

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to the Ansible
for the Absolute Beginners course.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and I'll be your instructor for this course.
I'm a DevOps trainer at codecloud.com and I've been working
in the industry as a consultant for
over 13 years and have helped hundreds of thousands
of students learn technology in a fun and interactive way.
(graphics whooshing)
In this course, you will learn Ansible
through a series of lectures that use animations
and fun illustrations to simplify complex concepts,
and we have demos that will show you
how to install and get started with Ansible.
Most importantly, we have hands-on exercises
that you can access right in your browser.
Yes, you don't need to have a high-end system
or access to cloud platforms or worry
about cloud costs to gain practice.
We will provide you access to actual lab environments
and challenges to practice on.
Our labs are unique as in, we don't provide
a blank environment and give you instructions
to copy and paste blindly.
Instead, every lab is created specifically
for the topic you just learned,
and you're asked questions to explore
and identify information in the lab or do specific tasks,
and your job is to figure out how to do those tasks.
We will validate your work and give you feedback instantly.
(graphics whooshing)
At the end of the course, you will work
on a real-world project of deploying
the Code Cloud E-commerce application
using simple playbooks.
Let's now look at the objectives of this course.
Since this is for the absolute beginners,
we go all the way from basics,
covering everything you need to know to get started.
You don't need any prior coding experience
or scripting experience.
We will get started with understanding what Ansible is
and what it can do, and we'll go
through how to set up Ansible in your environment
using a simple virtual machine deployed using Virtual Box,
and then we'll get started with an introduction to YAML,
which is the language that Ansible uses.
All Ansible playbooks are written in YAML.
One of the common challenges that beginners face
in Ansible is understanding how to work with YAML files.
We have a number of coding exercises that will get you
all set with YAML in no time by hands-on exercises
that give you enough practice to be confident
in automating with Ansible.
As with all of our other courses, we have hands-on exercises
that you can access right in your browser.
The browser gives you a quiz portal with a set
of questions and an editor to answer the question,
so develop the YAML files required
for each task and the playbooks to solve each quiz.
If you run into issues, you may view the hints
or the solution sections for the answer
or reach us through our Q&amp;A section.
Well, I'm excited to get started.
I'm ready whenever you are.
(bright music)
(typewriter buttons clicking)

--- Introduction to Ansible ---

Instructor: In this lecture, we will get introduced
to what Ansible is.
If you're a systems engineer or IT administrator
or just anybody working in IT,
you're probably involved in doing a lot
of repetitive tasks in your environment,
whether it be sizing and creating new hosts
or virtual machines every day,
applying configurations on them,
patching in hundreds of servers, migrations,
deploying applications, or even performing security
and compliance audits.
All of these very repetitive tasks involve execution
of hundreds of commands on hundreds of different servers
while maintaining the right sequence of events
with system reboots and whatnot in between.
Some people develop scripts to automate these tasks
but that requires coding skills and regular maintenance
of these scripts, and a lot of time
to put these scripts together on the first place.
That's where Ansible helps.
Ansible is a powerful IT automation tool
that you can learn quickly.
It's simple enough for everyone in IT,
yet powerful enough to automate
even the most complex deployments.
In the past, something that took developing
a complex script, now takes just a few lines
of instruction in an Ansible automation playbook.
Whether you want to make that happen on your local host
or on all of your database servers
or all of your web servers on cloud or just the ones
on your DR environment, all it takes is modifying one line.
Now, don't worry about the playbook itself
or its syntax for now.
We will get into that in a bit,
and we have lots of fun exercises coming up
that will get you all set with this in no time.
Let's take a look at a simple use case.
Imagine you have a number of hosts in your environment
that you would like to restart in a particular order.
Some of them are web servers and others are database servers
so you would like to power down the web servers first,
followed by the database servers, and then power up
the database servers and then the web servers.
You could write an Ansible playbook to get this done
in a matter of minutes and simply invoke
the Ansible playbook every time you wish to restart
your application.
Let's take a look at another example.
In this case, we are setting up a complex infrastructure
that spans across public and private clouds
and that includes hundreds of VMs.
With Ansible, you could provision VMs on public clouds
like Amazon and as well as private cloud environments
like VMware, and move on to configuring applications
on those and setting up communication between them,
such as modifying configuration files,
installing applications on them,
configuring firewall rules, et cetera.
There are a lot of built-in modules available
in Ansible that supports these kind of operations.
You can easily integrate Ansible with the rest
of your environment so that you can pull information
to be used in the automation process,
such as data from a CMDB database
to get the list of VMs you wanna target
or you can configure Ansible
to trigger automation automatically when from tools
like ServiceNow, when a workflow gets approved.
The Ansible documentation pages hosted at docs.ansible.com
are comprehensive and contains all information required
to get started with Ansible, and there are hundreds
of examples of playbooks in these pages.
We will be referring to these while setting up
and installing Ansible.
So that's a quick introduction to what Ansible is,
why you might want to consider it and what it can do.
Going forward, we will look at how to quickly get started
by setting up an Ansible lab environment,
and I will see you in the next lecture.


=== Configuration and Basic Concepts ===


--- A Quick Reminder ---

-: Hey, so here is a quick reminder
and I hope you don't mind me jumping in like this.
I wanted to take a moment to remind you
about the importance of staying focused
on the labs and videos that are provided in this course.
Now, I understand that you may be eager
to create your own local setup to practice,
but I recommend that you resist that urge
until you have completed the course.
Our labs and videos are designed
to give you a seamless learning experience
that will help you gain the most out of the course
in the time that you have available.
By sticking to the labs and videos provided in the course,
you can minimize distractions and interruptions
and ensure that you have a clear path from start to finish.
And this will help you stay focused on your learning goals
and make the most of your time with us.
Rest assured, we will provide you with resources
to create your own local setup
at the appropriate time in the course.
For now, let's focus on the labs
so you can gain the knowledge and skills you need
to succeed.
Thank you for choosing our course.
Thank you for choosing KodeKloud,
and we look forward to helping you achieve
your learning goals.
(dramatic music)


=== Ansible Inventory ===


--- Download Presentation ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Ansible Variables ===


--- Introduction to Ansible Configuration Files ---

Instructor: In this lecture,
we will look at configuration files in Ansible.
When you install Ansible, just like any other software,
it creates a default configuration file at the location,
/etc/ansible/ansible.cfg.
The Ansible configuration file governs the default behavior
of Ansible using a set of parameters.
An Ansible configuration file is divided
into several sections, the default section at the top,
and others like inventory, privileges_escalation,
ssh_connection, and colors to name a few.
Within each of these sections, you have a number of options
and their values, most of them being in the default section.
For example, the default location
of the Ansible inventory file,
the location of the logs file,
the location to the modules or roles, or plugins directory,
whether Ansible should be gathering facts by default
for all executions,
how long to wait before giving up
on an SSH connection attempt,
or how many hosts should Ansible target
at a time when executing playbooks
against multiple hosts?
Out of the inventory section,
you have options for enabling certain inventory plugins.
Now, we don't have to understand
all of these options for now.
We will look at some of these options in more detail
when we cover the respective topics.
For now, let's look at how to work with configuration files
in general and how these values are interpreted
and how to override some of them.
Now, we know the default location
of Ansible's configuration file
is at /etc/ansible/ansible.cfg path,
and those are values Ansible will consider
when you run the playbooks
from anywhere on the controlled machine.
Say I have multiple different playbooks
in different locations on my host, like one for web,
another for database, and another for networking,
and say I require different settings in each of these.
For example, when I run the playbooks for web,
I do not want facts to be gathered;
when I run the playbooks for database,
I do want facts to be gathered, but I do not want
to display colored output for some reason.
When I run the network playbooks,
I want to extend the SSH timeout to 20 seconds
instead of the default 10.
I just picked one example for each
for now, but you might have a requirement
to change many such values based on your use case.
In that case, you make a copy
of the default configuration file
into each of these directories
and make the necessary changes in them.
Next time you run Ansible Playbook,
it picks values from the config file
within those directories.
That's one way to override default parameters in Ansible.
What if you plan to store one of your configuration files
in a directory other than your Playbooks directory?
For example, you want to store the web configuration
to a file at location opt/ansible-web.cfg
and use that for multiple Ansible playbooks going forward.
In such cases, before running the Ansible playbook,
you can specify the location to this configuration file
through an environment variable, ansible_config,
and set it to the path to the new config file.
This time, when the playbook is run, Ansible picks up
that file instead of the default configuration file.
So we saw different ways
of specifying the configuration file, by specifying the path
in an environment variable, by creating the config file
in the playbooks directory or from the default location.
What if you have all of them configured,
and different values for different parameters
in each of them?
Which one does it consider,
and what order does Ansible pick the configuration files in?
The first priority is always to the parameters configured
in the file specified through an environment variable.
Any values configured
in this file overrides the values configured
in all other files.
followed by the ansible.cfg file in the current directory
from which the Ansible playbooks are run,
followed by the .ansible.cfg file
in the user's home directory.
Yes, that's one place that we didn't mention earlier.
And lastly, the default Ansible configuration file
at /etc/ansible/ansible.cfg.
Remember, these files don't have to have all values.
You only need to override the parameter
you want to override.
Default values
for other parameters will be automatically picked
from the next config file in the priority chain.
Okay, so let us now look
at the values within these files themselves.
Say for instance, I developed a set
of new playbooks for my storage environment.
I have decided to go
with the Ansible configuration parameters
defined in the default configuration file
so I don't really have to make a copy
of it into my playbooks directory.
When I execute Ansible from my storage directory,
it first looks
if there is an ansible.cfg file available there.
If not, it's going to use the one in the default location.
But I realized that there is this one parameter
that I need to change, just one for gathering facts.
I want to turn it off.
So I don't really want to copy the entire ansible.cfg file
to make that one change.
What I could do is override that single parameter
using an environment variable.
You can set an environment variable right before
executing the Ansible playbook to change that behavior.
So how do you figure
out what the environment variable should be?
For most options in the configuration file,
you can figure out the corresponding environment variable
by changing the whole parameter to uppercase
and prefixing ANSIBLE_ to it, like this.
In this case, gathering is the parameter,
so it would be ANSIBLE_GATHERING in uppercase.
But you must check the documentation as well
to confirm that's the right one.
You could use the Ansible config command
to view that information, and of course, on a Linux shell,
use Export to set the environment variable.
Now remember, any value set through an environment variable
like this takes the highest precedence.
All other values specified
in any configuration file are ignored
if a corresponding environment variable is set
with a different value.
There are different ways
to pass this environment variable in.
You could simply specify it
in a key equals value format
right before executing the playbook like this.
But remember, this setting is then only applicable
to this single playbook execution, this single command.
If you want to persist that throughout
your shell session, you could use the export command
and set the environment variable shell wide,
until you exit from your shell, this setting will be active.
If you want to make the change persistent
across different shells across different users
running this playbook on different systems,
then the best approach is to create a local copy
of the configuration file
in the Playbooks directory and update the parameter in it.
That way, you can even check in the configuration file
into your code repository.
So how do you find out
what the different configuration options are,
what the corresponding environment variables are,
and what they mean.
Use the ansible-config list command to see a list
of all different configurations, their default values,
and the values you can set.
We learned that you can have
multiple different configuration files on your system.
For example, one in the present directory and another
in the user's home directory, and another
in the /etc/ansible directory.
How do you see which one is active?
You can run the ansible-config view command
to see the config file that's currently active.
We also learned different ways
to specify configuration parameters
to different configuration files, environment variables,
a mix of config files and environment variables.
What if you're not sure which setting
have been picked up by Ansible?
Now to my favorite command, the ansible-config dump command.
This will show you a comprehensive list
of current settings Ansible has picked up
and where it's picked that from.
For example, here I'm going to set an environment variable
to set facts gathering to the value explicit.
Then, running the ansible-config dump command
and looking for the gathering keyword,
you see it's set to explicitly
because of the environment variable ansible_gathering.
It tells you exactly how it picked that value.
This is especially useful when you're troubleshooting issues
with configuration.
Well, that's it for this lecture.


=== Ansible Playbooks ===


--- Introduction to YAML ---

Instructor: Hello, and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we take a look at what YAML files are.
All Ansible Playbooks are written in YAML.
If you are familiar with YAML already,
feel free to skip this section
and head over to the next section.
If you have not worked with YAML in the past,
I would highly recommend going through this
because the rest of the course depends entirely on YAML.
Ansible Playbooks are text files
or configuration files rather,
that are written in a particular format called YAML.
If you have worked with other data structure formats
like XML or JSON, you should be able to easily pick it up.
Don't worry if you haven't worked on any of these,
you should still be able to easily pick it up
going through the coding exercises
that accompany this course.
A YAML file is used to represent data,
in this case, configuration data.
Here is a quick comparison of a sample data
in three different formats.
The one on the left is XML where we display a list
of servers and their information.
The same data is represented in JSON format
in the middle and finally in YAML format to the right.
Take a minute to compare the three formats.
Let's take a close look at YAML.
If you take the data in its simplest form
such as key value pair,
this is how you would define it in YAML.
Key and value separated by a colon.
The keys are fruit, vegetable, liquid, and meat
and the values are apple, carrot, water, and chicken.
Remember, you must have a space followed
by colon differentiating the key and the value.
Let's take a look at how an array is represented.
We would like to list some fruits and vegetables.
We would say fruits followed by a colon.
On the next line, enter each item with a dash in the front.
The dash indicates that it's an element of an array.
How about a dictionary?
A dictionary is a set of properties
grouped together under an item.
Here, we try to represent nutrition information
of two fruits.
The calories, fat, and carbs are different for each fruit.
Notice the blank space before each item.
You must have equal number of blank spaces
before the properties of a single item
so they are all aligned together.
Let's take a closer look at spaces in YAML.
Here we have a dictionary representing
the nutrition information of banana.
The total amount of calories, fat, and carbs are shown.
Notice the number of spaces before each property
that indicates these key value pairs fall within banana.
But what if we had extra spaces for fat and carbs?
Then they will fall under calories
and thus become properties of calories,
which doesn't make any sense.
This will result in a syntax error,
which will tell you that mapping values
are not allowed here because calories already
have a value set, which is 105.
You can either set a direct value or a hashmap.
You cannot have both.
So the number of spaces before each property
is key in YAML.
You must ensure they're in the right form
to represent your data correctly.
Let's take it to another level.
You can have lists containing dictionaries containing lists.
In this case, I have a list of fruits
and the elements of the list are banana and grape,
but each of these element are further dictionaries
containing nutrition information.
A lot of students new to YAML have reached out to me
asking when to use a dictionary or a list.
So let me explain this a little bit better.
First of all, it is important to understand
that all of what we discussed so far,
such as XML, JSON or YAML are used to represent data.
It could be data about an organization
and all of its employees and their personal details,
or it could be data about a school
and all of its students and their grades.
Or it could be data about
an automobile manufacturing company
and all of its cars and its details.
It could be anything.
Let's take an example of a car.
A car is a single object and it has properties
such as color, model, transmission, and price.
To store different information or properties
of a single object, we use a dictionary.
In this simple dictionary,
I have properties of the car defined in a key value format.
This may not be as simple as this,
for example, in case we need to split the model
further into model name and make year,
you could then represent this
as a dictionary within another dictionary.
In this case, the single value of model
is now replaced by a small dictionary with two properties,
name and year.
So this is dictionary within another dictionary.
Let's say we would like to store the name of six cars.
The names are from by the color and the model of the car.
To store this, we would use a list or an array
as it is multiple items of the same type of object.
Since we are only storing the names,
we have a simple list of strings.
What if we would like to store all information
about each car, everything that we listed before
such as the color, model, transmission, and price.
We will then modify the array
from a list of strings to a list of dictionaries.
So we expand each item in the array
and replace the name with the dictionary we built earlier.
This way, we are able to represent all information
about multiple cars in a single YAML file
using a list of dictionaries.
So that's the difference
between dictionary, list, and list of dictionaries.
I hope you understood the difference
between the three and when to use each of these.
Before we head over to exercises,
let's take a look at some key notes.
Dictionary is an unordered collection
whereas lists are ordered collection.
So what does that mean?
The two dictionaries that you see here
have the same properties for banana.
However, you can see that the order of properties
fat and carbs do not match.
In the first dictionary, fat is defined
before carbs and in the second dictionary
carbs comes first followed by fat,
but that doesn't really matter.
The properties can be defined in any order,
but the two dictionaries will still be the same
as long as the values of each property match.
This is not the same for lists or arrays.
Arrays are ordered collection,
so the order of items matter.
The two lists shown are not the same
because apple and banana are at different positions.
This is something to keep in mind
while working with data structures.
Also remember, any line beginning
with a hash is automatically ignored
and considered as a comment.
We are now ready to head over to the coding exercises
and have fun playing with YAML files.


=== Ansible Modules ===


--- Accessing the Labs ---

Instructor: Hello, in this video,
I will explain how to access labs,
part of this course.
This course comes with real hands-on labs
that you can access right in your browser.
Unfortunately, Udemy does not have native support
for embedding real hands-on labs in the course,
and that's why these labs are hosted on KodeKloud.
Students who purchase this course on Udemy can get access
to the labs for free on KodeKloud.
You don't have to make any extra payments.
To access the labs, there's a lecture named Access Labs
in your course,
right before the first lab starts.
Use the link to go to the checkout page on KodeKloud.
If you haven't signed up on the KodeKloud website before,
you will need to provide your email address.
KodeKloud and Udemy are different platforms,
and unfortunately, there is no option available yet
to share the same user accounts between the two.
So you must create an account
and sign up on KodeKloud to access the labs.
Remember, your Udemy credentials won't work on KodeKloud.
If you're accessing through Udemy for business,
then your company credentials won't work either.
You must create a new account on KodeKloud.
Once logged in, you can find your course
under the courses page.
Lab courses start with the term labs in their name.
Once the labs are open, use the maximize button
to hide the course curriculum
to get more space for your labs.
And if you want to see the course curriculum again,
click on the same button.
Once you're done working on a lab,
mark it complete using the Mark Complete button.
As you can see, there are multiple lab scenarios
for each course.
And when to access which lab,
the detail of that will be given within the course
as in when you progress through the course on Udemy,
you will know when to access what lab.
Well, that's it for now.
I wish you all the best.
And if you run into issues with accessing labs,
please write to support at support@kodekloud.com.
I hope you have a great learning experience from us.


=== Ansible Handlers, Roles and Collections ===


--- Course setup ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Advanced Topics ===


--- Coding Exercise - YAML ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Appendix ===


--- Ansible Inventory ---

-: We will now look at configuring inventory in Ansible.
Ansible can work with one
or multiple systems in your infrastructure at the same time.
In order to work with multiple servers
Ansible needs to establish connectivity to those servers.
This is done using SSH
for Linux and PowerShell Remoting for Windows.
That's what makes Ansible Agentless.
Agentless means that you don't need to install
any additional software
on the target machines to be able to work with Ansible.
A simple SSH connectivity would suffice Ansible's needs.
One of the major disadvantages
of most other orchestration tools is
that you are required to configure an agent
on the target systems
before you can invoke any kind of automation.
Now, information about these target systems is stored
in an inventory file.
If you don't create a new inventory file
Ansible uses the default inventory file located
at etc/Ansible/hosts location.
Let's take a look at a sample inventory file.
The inventory file is in an INI like format.
It's simply a number of servers listed, one after the other.
You can also group different servers together
by defining it like this under the name
of the group within square brackets, and define the list
of servers part of that group in the lines below.
You can have multiple groups defined
in a single inventory file.
Let's take a closer look at inventory files.
For example, I have a list
of servers named from one to four.
However, I would like to refer
to these servers in Ansible using an alias such
as web server or database server.
I could do this by adding an alias for each server
at the beginning of the line and assigning the address
of that server to Ansible underscore host parameter.
Ansible underscore host is an inventory parameter
used to specify the FQDN or IP address of a server.
There are other inventory parameters too.
Some of them are Ansible underscore connection
Ansible underscore port, Ansible underscore user
and Ansible underscore SSH underscore pass.
Ansible underscore connection is what defines how
Ansible connects to the target server.
As we discussed in the previous slide.
Is this a SSH connection to a Linux server
or a WIN RM connection to a window server?
This is how we define if the target host we wish to connect
to is a Linux or a Windows host.
You could also set it to local host to indicate
that we would like to work with the local host
and not connect to any remote hosts.
If you don't have multiple servers to play around with
you could simply start with a local host
in your inventory file.
Ansible underscore port defines which part to connect to.
By default, it is set to port 22 for
SSH, but if you need to change, you can set it
differently using Ansible underscore port parameter.
Ansible underscore user defines the user used to
make remote connections. By default
this is set to root for Linux machines.
If you need to change this, define it as shown here.
Ansible underscore SSH underscore pass defines
the SSH password for Linux.
Note that storing passwords in plain text format
like this may not be very ideal.
The best practice is to set
up SSH key based passwordless authentication
between the servers, and you should definitely do that
in your production or corporate environments.
But for now, we wanna start
with the absolute basics of Ansible
without getting too much into security or other topics.
So to begin with, we'll start
with a really basic setup with a username and password.
Otherwise, you would be stuck configuring
and troubleshooting security issues
for the most part of this course.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding Challenges
and practice working with Inventory Files and Ansible.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Coding Exercise - Ansible Inventory ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Inventory Formats ---

Instructor: Let's take the example of two companies.
The first is a small startup
with a few service handling basic functions
like web hosting and database management.
The second is a multinational corporation
with hundreds of servers spread across the globe,
handling diverse functions like e-commerce,
customer support, data analysis, and more.
For the small startup,
a simple INI format inventory would suffice.
It's like a basic organizational chart
with only a few departments.
However, for the multinational corporation,
a more detailed and structured inventory would be needed.
This is where the YAML format comes in.
It's like a complex organizational chart
with various departments, sub-departments, and teams.
The different inventory formats also offer flexibility,
allowing you to group your servers based on their roles,
like web servers, database servers,
and application servers in a company,
their geographic location,
like servers in the U.S., Europe, or Asia,
or any other criteria
that makes sense for your organization.
Ansible supports two main types of inventory formats,
INI and YAML.
INI format is the simplest and most straightforward.
It's like a basic organizational chart for a small startup.
Here's an example.
The YAML format is more structured and flexible
than the INI format.
It's like a complex organizational chart
for a multinational corporation.
Here's an example.
Just like a company chooses the right organizational chart
for its operations, you should choose the inventory format
that best suits your project's needs and complexity.
Whether you choose the INI or YAML format,
the key is to ensure your servers, departments
work together to achieve your organizational objectives.
Well, that's it for this lecture,
we'll see you in the next one.

--- Grouping and Parent-Child Relationships ---

Narrator: Imagine you're an IT administrator
in a large organization with a complex IT infrastructure.
You have hundreds of servers,
spread across multiple locations,
serving different purposes.
Some are web servers, some are database servers,
and others could be application servers.
Managing these servers individually can be a daunting task.
For instance, if you need to update the web servers,
you would have to manually specify each web server.
This is not only time-consuming but also prone to errors.
In managing a complex IT infrastructure,
wouldn't it be convenient if we could categorize servers
based on their roles, locations, or any other criteria
that makes sense in our environment?
For instance, imagine if we could collectively
identify all our web servers under a common label,
say web servers.
This would mean that when an update is needed
for the web servers, instead of manually specifying
each server, we could simply target the web servers label.
The changes would then be applied to all servers
associated with that label, saving us time
and reducing the risk of errors.
This is not just a hypothetical scenario.
This is precisely where Ansible's grouping feature
comes into play.
With Ansible's grouping, we can create these common labels
or groups to efficiently manage and operate
on a set of servers at one.
Now, when you need to update the web servers,
you can simply target the web servers group
and Ansible will apply the changes
to all servers in that group.
But what if your web servers
are spread across different locations
and servers in each location
need to have some location-specific configurations?
You could create separate groups for web servers
in each location but that would mean duplicating
a lot of common configurations.
This is where Ansible's parent-to-child
relationships come in handy.
You can create a parent group called web servers
and child groups for each location, for example,
web servers US, web servers EU, et cetera.
You can define the common configurations
at the parent group level
and location-specific configurations
at the child group level.
This way you can manage your servers more efficiently
and avoid configuration duplication.
In the INI format, groups are defined using square brackets
and hosts are listed under their respective groups.
Parent-child relationships are defined
using the :children suffix.
In this example, web servers US and web servers EU
are groups and web servers is a parent group
that includes both web servers US
and web servers EU as child groups.
In the YAML format, groups are defined
using the keyword hosts and parent-child relationships
are defined using the keyword children.
Below is the same example presented in YAML format
for better readability and understanding.

--- Ansible Variables ---

Instructor: We will now look at variables in Ansible.
So what are variables?
Just like any other scripting or programming language,
variables are used to store values
that varies with different items.
For example, let's say we are trying to perform
the same operation of applying patches
to hundreds of servers,
we only need a single playbook for all hundred servers.
However, it's the variables that store information
about the different host names, usernames, or passwords
that are different for each server.
We have already worked with variables earlier
when we worked in the inventory section.
If you remember, in an inventory file that looks like this,
the ansible_host, ansible_connection, ansible_ssh_pass
are all examples of variables.
We can define as many variables as required like this.
We could also define variables inside the playbook.
This is a playbook we created earlier to add a DNS entry
into the etc/resolv.conf file.
To add a variable, we could simply add a vars directive,
followed by variables in a key-value pair format.
In this case, dns_server followed by the DNS server IP.
We can also have variables defined
in a separate file dedicated for variables.
We will learn about this more later
when we talk about includes and roles.
So, we have now defined variables,
but how do we use them?
In the previous playbook,
we have defined the variable dns_server,
but we have not used it anywhere.
What would be the right place to use that?
In this line here where we defined
the nameserver IP address,
we could replace the hard coded value
with the value from the variable.
To use a variable, simply enter the variable name
enclosed in double braces or curly brackets like this.
When we run the playbook, Ansible will replace it
with the value in the variable.
Let's look at another example.
This is a longer playbook
that is used to set multiple firewall configurations,
which has a number of values hard coded in it.
If someone else wanted to reuse this playbook,
he would have to modify the playbook to change these values.
If these values that can vary are moved
to the inventory file
and refer to it in the playbook using double curly braces,
we could get away with modifying
the inventory file alone in the future
and not have to modify the playbook itself.
And even better way to do this
would be to move the variables into a file
in the name of the host, in this case, web.yml.
This is now a host variable file,
and all values defined in this file
are available for use by the playbook
when it is run for that host.
This way, it is better organized.
Remember, this format we are using
to use variables in playbooks
is called Jinja2 Templating.
We have an entire course on Jinja2 Templating
for the absolute beginners on KodeKloud,
so check it out when you get time.
Finally, while using variables with Jinja2 Templating,
remember to enclose it within quotes
if you're starting your assignment with the variable.
However, if the variable is in between a sentence like this,
then that is not really required.
Let's head over to exercises
to play around with variables
in coding exercises.

--- Variable Types ---

Instructor: Let us take a look at variable types.
String variables in Ansible are sequences of characters.
They can be defined in a playbook, inventory,
or passed as command line arguments.
In the example shown,
username is a string variable with the value admin.
The second type is number variables.
Number variables in Ansible
can hold integer or floating-point values.
They can be used in mathematical operations.
In the example shown,
max_connections is a number variable with the value 100.
Another type of variable is a Boolean variable.
The Boolean variables in Ansible
can hold either truthy or falsy values.
They're often used in conditional statements.
In the example shown, debug_mode is a Boolean variable
with the value true.
Possible truthy and falsy values
are shown in the table displayed.
We use list variables in Ansible
to hold an ordered collection of values.
The values can be of any type.
In this example,
packages is a list variable that holds three string values.
You can reference this variable in your playbook
in double curly brackets.
If you want to access a specific item in the list,
you can do so by its index, as shown in the example.
We also have dictionary variables in Ansible
that can hold a collection of key-value pairs.
The keys and values can be of any type.
In this example, user is a dictionary variable
that holds two key-value pairs.
You can reference this variable in your playbook
by using double curly brackets.
If you want to access a specific value in the dictionary,
you can do so by its key, as shown in the example.

--- Registering Variables and Variable Precedence ---

Instructor: Discussed about variables
in the beginner's course.
They are used to associate information to hosts,
information that varies, that's different between each host.
It's information that is used by Ansible itself
to, say, establish connectivity to the hosts.
That's information that could be used by your playbooks
or place to configure hosts with such as DNS server IP,
NTP server IP, IP tables, firewall rules, et cetera.
So what is variable precedence?
What if you have a variable defined in two different places?
For example, in this inventory file,
I have a variable defined for each host as their IP address.
The ansible_host is a host variable.
I have the host part of a group called Web Servers.
I know that all of my hosts in this group
are to be configured with the same DNS server,
so I set up a group variable called dns_server
with the IP of the server.
Now, when the Ansible playbook is run,
Ansible creates these host objects in its memory.
It then identifies which group each host belongs to
and then associates the group variables to each host.
Each host gets its own copy of that variable
and that is used throughout the playbook execution.
What if I define the same variable on the host as well?
For web2, I say the DNS server is something else.
Which one would be considered by Ansible?
When Ansible playbook is run, it first associates
the group variables and then associates the host variables.
And so the variable defined at the host level
takes precedence over the variable defined
at the group level, and that's variable precedence.
Host variables takes precedent over group variables.
What about variables defined within a playbook?
Say, for example, inside my playbook that configures
the DNS server, I have defined a variable
with a different value for DNS server.
I have the same variable defined at the group level,
host level, and at the play level.
In that case, whatever I define at the play level
overrides the variables set on the others.
I can even pass in the same information as an extra variable
while running the playbook using the extra-vars option.
Well, in that case, that takes the highest precedence.
The value passed in as an extra variable
to the command line is considered highest priority
and overrides all other values specified
in all other places.
Well, those were just a few of the many ways
you can pass in a variable to an Ansible playbook.
A comprehensive list of the different options
and their precedence is given
in the Ansible documentation here.
Note that the order of precedence is from top to bottom.
The role default variables have the lowest precedence
and the extra-vars passed through the command line
has the highest precedence.
At times, you may have a requirement
to store the output of one task to use it later.
For example, in this simple playbook,
I have a task that prints the output
of the file etc/hosts on a server.
I'd like to add another task to print the output
of the first command on screen using the debug module.
So how do I capture the output of the first command
and pass it to the second command?
Use the registered directive with the first command
and specify a variable name.
The output will now be captured into this variable.
Then specify the same variable
in the VAR option of the debug module.
The variable named result is now accessible
for the duration of display.
This is the output when you print the variable.
Now the data stored in the variable
depends entirely on what module was run.
Different modules output data in different formats.
In this case, the variable stores the result
of the command execution since we use the Shell module.
The result includes the return code specified by RC.
This would be zero if the command runs successfully.
Anything other than the zero
indicates that the command may have run into a problem.
The result also has the start time of the command,
end time of the command, and the delta indicating the time
it took for the commands to complete execution,
as well as the standard out
and standard error of the command, if any.
Since we tried to print the contents of the etc/host file,
they're stored in the STD out or STD outlines parameter.
So instead of printing all of the contents,
what if you just want to print the file contents alone?
The output of the command we tried to run,
then you specify the variable to print as result.stdout
and same goes for the return code.
If you want to print this return code, specify result.rc.
So what is the scope of such registered variables?
Any variable created using the registered directive
falls under the scope of that host.
That variable is associated to that host
and is available for the rest of the playbook execution.
In this case, the result variable has the results
of the command execution for its respective host.
So remember, they're under the host scope,
meaning they can still be used in the next play if required
and they can only be used within the scope of that host.
Another easy way to view the output of a task
if you don't really want to use the debug module
is to pass in the -v option while running the playbook.
Well, that's it for now.

--- Variable Scoping ---

Instructor: So what is the scope
of a variable in Ansible?
Say for example, in this simple inventory file,
we have a DNS server specified for host web two.
Is that value available for the other hosts
web one and web three?
No, because the scope
of that variable is within the host web two.
A scope defines the accessibility
or the visibility of a variable.
Just like in programming languages,
a variable is accessible depending on how
and where it is defined.
So that's the first scope right there.
The host scope, a variable defined
as a host variable is accessible within a play
that is run for that host.
Now, when I say defined as a host variable,
I mean any variable defined anywhere for that host
whether it be in the inventory file
or as part of a group variable
or as part of a group of group variable.
Ultimately, when the Ansible playbook is run,
the first thing that it does is it breaks down the groups
and associates variables to hosts.
So when the playbook is run,
there is just one scope, the host scope.
So here I have a simple playbook that sets a value
for NTP server and prints it to the screen.
The value for NTP server is only defined
in the first play,
so it prints successfully in the first play.
But that variable is not accessible in the second play
because the scope of that variable
is only within the first play.
And so that's the second type of scope, the play scope.
And finally, there are global variables,
variables that are accessible everywhere
throughout the playbook execution.
We have seen that already,
an example is passing in a variable
as an extra variable in the command line, like this.
Having a good understanding of variable scope is important
as they're required for you to understand
the concepts of magic variables
that are coming up in the coming lectures.
Well, that's it for now.
Thank you for watching
and I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Magic Variables ---

Instructor: This lecture, we will discuss
about magic variables in Ansible.
Earlier, we discussed the scope of a variable.
We learned that the host variables
are associated to each host.
With this inventory file,
we have a DNS server specified for host web2.
When Ansible playbook starts,
it first creates three sub-processes for each host.
Before the tasks are run on each host,
Ansible goes through a variable interpolation stage
where it picks up variables from different sources
and associates them to the respective hosts.
Each variable is only associated to the host
on which it was defined, so it is unavailable on the others.
The DNS server's IP address is unavailable on web1
and web3, but how do you get it if you really want it?
How can one Ansible subprocess running tasks
for one host get the variables defined on another host?
How can web1 and web3 get the DNS server's IP address,
which is specified on web2?
That's where we use magic variables.
A magic variable called hostvars can be used
to get variables defined on another host.
In this case, hostvars of web2.dns_server
will get you the DNS server defined on the web2 node,
and this will work for all hosts.
You can get any information about the other hosts this way.
To get the host name or IP of the other host,
use the ansible_host parameter.
If facts are gathered, you can access additional facts
about other hosts, such as their architecture,
information regarding their devices, mounts,
processors, et cetera.
Anything within the facts of a host
can be retrieved like this.
Also, note that you can write the same expression
like this using brackets and single quotes.
Both these expressions yield the same results.
You might see this in different formats
in the documentation.
So that was one kind of magic variable that are used
to get variables from other hosts.
Another magic variable is called groups.
Groups return all hosts under a given group.
Group names is the other way around.
It returns all the groups the current host is part of.
In this case, when you use group names in a play
for host web1, it returns web_servers
and Americas, which happens to be the groups
that this particular host is part of.
Inventory_hostname is a magic variable
that gives you the name configured for the host
in the inventory file and not the host name or SQDN.
Well, those are a few, and there are others as well
that we can see in the documentation page.
In the documentation section,
magic variables are documented
under the Using Variables section
under Working with Playbook section in the user guide.
Refer to these while working
with the upcoming coding challenges on magic variables.
Well, that's it for now.

--- Ansible Facts ---

Instructor: This lecture, we will look at Ansible Facts.
When you run a playbook
and when Ansible connects to a target machine,
it first collects information about the machine,
such as its basic system information,
like the system architecture, version of operating system,
processor details, memory details, serial numbers,
et cetera.
It collects information
about the host's network connectivity,
the different interfaces, IP addresses, FQDN,
MAC address, et cetera,
as well as device information like the different disks,
volumes, mounts and the amount of space available on them,
the date and time on those systems
and other settings as well.
These information are known as facts in Ansible.
Ansible gathers all these facts using the setup module.
The setup module is run automatically by Ansible
to gather facts about the hosts when you run a playbook,
even if you didn't use this module in your playbook.
For example, in this sample playbook
where we print a hello message,
we only have one task, the task that uses the debug module
to print a message.
But in the output, you see that it's actually run two tasks.
The first one gathers facts
and the second one prints the message,
which was the only one we specified in our playbook
actually.
The first task is where Ansible
runs the setup module automatically
and gathers facts from the hosts.
So how do you see those facts?
All facts gathered by Ansible are stored in a variable
named ansible_facts.
Let's update our playbook to print that variable
instead of the message.
Use the VAR option on the debug module
and specify ansible_facts variable.
The output should display a lot of information
about the host's IPs,
whether it's a 64 bit or a 32 bit system,
with flavor, version, DNS server configurations,
FQDN, interfaces, memory details, device information,
processor details, et cetera.
These details could come in handy within your playbooks.
For example, if you were configuring devices
and logical volumes on your nodes,
you could make certain decisions
based on the information about disks gathered as facts.
Now, what if you don't want Ansible to do that?
Say for example, your playbook does not rely on
any information gathered from facts,
so you would like to disable gathering facts.
You could do that by adding an option
gather_facts to no on the play like this.
You would then see only a single task
and known facts gathered.
The behavior of gathering facts
is also governed by a setting
in the Ansible configuration file called Gathering,
as we saw in one of the previous lectures.
It is by default set to implicit,
meaning Ansible will automatically gather facts
whether you specify it or not.
Explicit is the opposite,
where Ansible does not gather facts by default,
but you can turn it on by setting the gather_facts to true
in the playbook.
What if you have it specified in both places,
in the playbook as well as in the configuration file?
The setting in the playbook always takes precedence
over the one in the configuration file.
One more thing, remember that Ansible only gathers facts
against hosts that are part of the playbook.
In this case, I have an inventory file with two hosts,
web1 and web2,
and an Ansible playbook which targets only one host, web1.
In this case, facts will be gathered only
for that host, web1.
So anytime you come across a situation
where facts for some hosts are unavailable,
that could probably be because you have not targeted
those hosts in your playbooks.
Later in this course, we will discuss more about
how to parse these facts,
and when we discuss about variables and templates,
we'll look more into using some of the information
in these facts.

--- Coding Exercise: Ansible Variables and Facts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Ansible Playbooks ---

Instructor: We will now look at Playbooks in Ansible.
Ansible Playbooks are Ansible's orchestration language.
It is in Playbooks where we define
what we want Ansible to do.
It is a set of instructions you provide Ansible
to work its magic.
For example, it can be as simple as
running a series of commands on different servers
in a sequence, and restarting those servers
in a particular order.
Or it could be as complex as deploying hundreds of VMs
in a public and private cloud infrastructure,
provisioning storage to VMs, setting up their network
and cluster configurations, configuring applications on them
such as web server or a database server,
setting up load balancing, setting up monitoring components,
installing and configuring backup clients
and updating configuration database with information
about the new VMs, et cetera.
Let's take a closer look at how Playbooks are written.
Remember, all Playbooks are written in YAML format,
which is why we spent some time earlier
getting our hands dirty with YAML.
A Playbook is a single YAML file
containing a set of plays.
A play defines a set of activities to be run
on a single or a group of hosts.
A task is a single action to be performed on a host.
Some examples of a task are executing a command
or a script on the host, installing a package on the host,
or performing a shutdown or a restart operation.
Let's take a look at an actual playbook.
Shown here is a simple Ansible Playbook
that contains a single play named play 1.
The goal of this play is to run a set of activities
one after the other on the local host.
Remember that the host you wanna run these actions
is defined at the play level.
In this case, we just want to test on the local host,
which is why it is set to local host.
This could be anything from your inventory file.
Next, we run a set of commands
one after the other on the host.
First, we print the date, then we run a script
on the server, followed by installing the httpd package
using the YAML module, and finally starting the web server
using the service module.
Let's look at this sample playbook format
and try to relate it to what we learned
in the YAML section earlier.
I have made a minor change and split the list of tasks
into two separate plays.
The YAML file, which is our playbook,
contains a list of two plays.
This is noted by the dash.
So the playbook is a list of dictionaries in YAML terms.
Each play is a dictionary
and has a set of properties called name, hosts, and tasks.
Remember, these are properties of a dictionary
and so the order doesn't really matter.
So even if you swap the position of name or host,
it's still a valid play.
However, this is not the same for tasks.
The tasks, as you can see, is a list or an array,
as denoted by the dashes.
Lists are ordered collection,
so the position of entries matter.
If you swap the position of entries here,
we're instructing Ansible to start the web service first,
before installing the httpd service, which is not desired.
So the YAML format is key while developing Playbooks,
you must pay extra attention to the inundation and structure
of the file.
The host parameter indicates which host you want
these operations to run on.
Remember, the host you want to perform these operations
against is always set at a play level.
Currently, this is said to local host,
which means that all these actions listed under tasks,
is going to be performed on the local host.
You could have any host or group specified here,
but you must ensure that the host or group
is first defined in the inventory file we created earlier.
The host defined in the inventory file
must match the host used in the Playbooks,
and all connection information for the host
is retrieved from the inventory file.
If you specify a group, instead,
the listed tasks will be executed
on all the hosts listed under that group simultaneously.
Let's move on to modules.
The different actions run by tasks are called modules.
In this case, command, script, yum and service,
are Ansible modules.
There are hundreds of other modules available
out of the box.
Information about these modules is available
in the Ansible documentation website,
or you could simply run the ansible-doc-l command.
To get familiar with the basic playbook structure
in the upcoming exercises,
you simply need to know the basic command module.
Later on, we will go through some other basic modules
in more detail.
Finally, once you successfully build the Ansible playbook,
how do you run it?
It's very simple.
Execute the ansible-playbook command
and specify the name of the Ansible playbook
you just created, and that's it.
If you do ansible-playbook-help command,
you will get to know more about
some additional parameters available for this command.
We will go through some of them in a later section.

--- Verifying Playbooks ---

Instructor: Let's say you're tasked
with deploying a critical software update
across hundreds of servers in your organization.
You write an Ansible playbook to automate this task
and confident in your work you decide to run it immediately
in your production environment.
However, due to an unnoticed error in the playbook,
instead of updating the software,
it unintentionally shuts down the service on all servers.
The result, a significant downtime
and a frantic scramble to restore the service.
This scenario underscores the importance of a critical step
in the playbook development process, which is verification.
Now, why do we need to verify playbooks?
Verifying a playbook before executing it
in a production environment is a crucial practice.
It's like a rehearsal
before the actual performance allowing you to catch
and rectify any errors or unexpected behaviors
in a controlled environment.
Without this verification step,
you run the risk of introducing unforeseen issues
into your systems as illustrated in the scenario shown.
These issues can lead to system downtime, data loss
or other serious consequences,
and can be much more difficult and time consuming to resolve
than the initial problem
the playbook was intended to address.
By verifying your playbooks,
you can proceed with confidence knowing
that your playbook will behave exactly
as expected when it's run in your production environment.
This not only helps to maintain the stability
and reliability of your systems
but also saves you from potential headaches down the line.
Let us now see how we can verify playbooks in Ansible.
Ansible provides several modes for verifying playbooks
out of which the check mode and diff mode are the main ones.
The check mode is a dry run mode
where Ansible executes the playbook
without making any actual changes on the hosts.
It allows you to see what changes the playbook will make
without applying them.
To run a playbook in check mode,
use the --check option.
Let's say you have a simple Ansible playbook saved
as install_nginx.yml that installs the nginx web server
on a host.
To run this playbook in check mode
you would use the --check option.
In check mode,
Ansible will not actually install nginx on the hosts.
Instead, it will tell you what it would do if it were
to run the playbook for real.
In this output you can see
that Ansible says it would change the state
of the web server one host by installing nginx.
However, because you ran the playbook in check mode,
no changes were actually made.
Please note that not all Ansible modules support check mode.
If a task uses a module that doesn't support check mode,
the task will be skipped when you run the playbook
in check mode.
Another mode for verifying playbooks is diff mode.
Diff mode when used with check mode shows the differences
between the current state and the state
after the playbook is run.
It provides a before and after comparison,
which can be useful for understanding
what changes a playbook will make.
To run a playbook in diff mode,
use the --diff option.
Here's an example playbook that ensures
a specific line is present in a configuration file.
You can save this playbook as configure-nginx.yml.
To run this playbook in check mode and diff mode,
you'd use the check and diff options.
The output might look something like this
if the line is not already present in the file.
In this output you can see the exact change
that would be made to the ETC nginx nginx.config file.
The line with the plus symbol shows what would be added
to the file.
In addition to the check and diff modes,
Ansible also provides a syntax check mode.
This mode checks the syntax of your playbook for any errors.
It's a quick way to catch syntax errors
that could cause your playbook to fail.
To run a playbook in syntax check mode use
the --syntax-check option.
Here's how you can use it.
Let's say you have the following playbook saved
as configure_nginx.yml.
You can run the syntax check with the following command.
The output will simply confirm
the playbook syntax is correct as you can see on the screen.
Now, let's introduce a syntax error
into the playbook by removing the colon after line in file.
If you run the syntax check again,
you'll receive an error message indicating the problem.
This error message tells you exactly
where the problem is making it easier to fix the issue.
The syntax check mode is a quick way to catch such errors
before running the playbook on your hosts.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
We'll see you in the next one.

--- Ansible-lint ---

Instructor: In our last lesson,
we delved into the importance
of verifying playbooks in Ansible.
We learned how to use check mode and diff mode
to ensure our playbooks behave as expected.
But let's take a step further.
Picture yourself as a DevOps engineer
in a bustling software company.
You have been using Ansible to automate your infrastructure.
And over time, you have written a multitude of playbooks.
As your infrastructure expands,
so does the complexity of your playbooks.
Some playbooks start to become more difficult to understand
and maintain than others.
You realize that you need a mechanism
to ensure consistency and quality across all your playbooks.
This is where Ansible Lint enters the scene.
Ansible Lint is a command-line tool
that performs linting on Ansible playbooks, roles,
and collections.
It checks your code for potential errors, bugs,
stylistic errors, and suspicious constructs.
It's akin to having a seasoned Ansible mentor guiding you,
providing valuable insights and catching issues
that might have slipped past your notice.
Let's have a look at an example
to understand the full power of Ansible Lint.
All right, so here's our stylish Ansible playbook
named style_example.yaml.
It has some tasks to install and configure NGINX,
but there are some style-related issues.
First, we have an inconsistent indentation in the playbook.
Some tasks have two spaces of indentation,
while one task has four spaces.
Second, we notice that the task names are inconsistent too.
One task follows a sentence-like style,
while the other goes with the concise approach.
Let's run Ansible Lint on this playbook
to see what it finds.
The output will be something like that shown on the screen.
And there you have it,
Ansible Lint catches all these style-related issues
and provides us with warnings.
It tells us about the incorrect indentation,
the deprecated apt and service modules,
and even the missing name attribute for one task.
You can use this feedback to refine your playbook.
If the command completes without any output,
that means no issues were found.
Well, that's all for now.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Coding Exercise: Ansible Playbooks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Conditionals ---

Instructor: In this lecture we will look at conditionals.
Let us start with a simple example.
I have two playbooks here that does the same thing,
install NGINX on a host.
But as you know,
different OS flavors use different package managers.
WN uses APT and Red Hat uses Yum
but these are two separate playbooks
and you will have to use the right playbook
for the respective servers.
I want to create a single playbook that works
for both of these operating systems for all hosts.
So based on the operating system flavor
my playbook must run the appropriate task
and that's where a conditional statement comes in handy.
I could use the when conditional statement to
specify a condition for each task,
only if the condition is true, that task is run.
So what is a condition?
It could be any check that we perform,
such as checking in if the OS family is Debian or Red Hat.
Ansible underscore OS underscore family
is a built in variable that Ansible populates
with the flavor of operating system.
Make sure to use double equal sign when checking equality,
in conditional statement.
You may use an or operator to
specify either of two conditions.
Use the yum module to install package if the OS family
is Red Hat or Suse or an and operator.
So it must satisfy both conditions.
In this case we use the APT module only if
the OS family is Debian and the version is 16.04.
You may use conditionals in a loop as well.
Say for example, instead of a single package, we have a list
of packages that needs to be installed.
We have an array named packages that has the list.
Each item in the list has the name of the package
to be installed as well as a property called required.
Install the packages only if the required property is set
to true.
First, we specify the loop directive to execute
the installed task in a loop.
The name of the package to be installed is now item.name
and this will install all three packages specified.
To visualize this better, if you kind of expand the loop
you'll see that the loop is in fact three different tasks,
one for each package.
Each task has the variable on it called item
and the item has the respective package details.
So if I wanted to write a conditional for each of the item,
I would say when item.required equals true.
and so back in my main playbook, that's what I would put in.
When item.required equals true
and that's how you use conditionals in loops.
Let's look at one final example.
To use conditionals with the output of a previous task
we have a requirement to develop a playbook
to check the status of its service and email if it's done.
So there are two tasks.
The first task checks the status
of a service and the second task sends an email.
We have learned previously that to record the output
of one task, we could use the registered directive.
So we say register the output to the result variable
and then in the second task we use the when conditional
on that result variable to say check
if result.stdout has down in it.
The defined method looks for a string
within a variable and returns its position.
If it's not found, it returns minus one.
So our condition would be if it's not minus one,
meaning that the output does not contain the word down,
send an email.
Well that's it for now.
Head over to the recording challenges
and practice working with conditionals.

--- Ansible Conditionals based on facts, variables, re-use ---

Instructor: Now, let us imagine your company
has a mix of different servers.
Some are running Ubuntu 18.04,
some are running CentOS 7,
and others are running Windows Server 2019.
Your task is to automate the deployment of a web application
across all these servers.
This means the playbook needs to perform
a different set of actions for different servers.
So in scenario 1,
you need to install a specific version of NGINX web server,
but only on the servers running Ubuntu 18.04.
How do you determine which version of OS
is running on a server?
Our inventory only has basic information
about the server that we know of.
This is where Ansible's facts come into play.
Ansible facts are system-specific variables
that can be used in playbooks.
They collect information about the servers
during the execution of the playbook.
You can use the ansible_facts os_family
and ansible_facts distribution_major_version
to determine the operating system of the target servers
and install the specific version of NGINX
only on the servers running Ubuntu 18.04.
Let's move to scenario 2.
Your web application
has different configuration requirements
based on the environment,
which are development, staging, or production.
You can define a variable, say, app_env,
to specify the environment.
Then in your playbook, you can use this variable
to deploy the appropriate configuration file
for the specified environment.
This is an example of using conditionals based on variables.
Next, in scenario 3, you have a common set of tasks
that need to be performed on all servers,
such as installing necessary software packages,
creating required directories, and setting up permissions.
However, you want to start the web application service
only on the servers in the production environment.
You can achieve this by defining a variable,
say, environment, and then using this variable
in a conditional statement to start the service
only when the environment is set to production.
This is an example of using conditionals for reuse.
In all these scenarios,
Ansible's powerful features such as facts, variables,
and reuse of tasks allow you to handle complex requirements
with ease and flexibility.
This is the power of Ansible's conditionals.
They enable you to control the execution of tasks
based on specific conditions,
making your playbooks more efficient and manageable.

--- Coding Exercise: Ansible Conditionals ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Loops ---

-: In this lecture we will look at loops
let's look at this example where we are
creating an Ansible playbook.
To create users in a system
using the user module.
The user module helps you create users
on the target systems.
In this case we are just creating one user.
But what if we have multiple users.
What if we have a lot of users to create.
Well, one way to do this would be
to duplicate these lines as many times as required.
But that is not very elegant,
and as there is a lot of duplication.
A better way to do this
would be to have a single task loop over all the users.
That's were we use loops.
Loop is a looping directive
that executes the same task multiple number of times.
Each time it runs,
it stores the value of each item
in the loop in a variable named "item".
So you can simply replace the user name,
in this case Joe with the item variable
inside double braces like this.
This makes your playbooks much more organized,
and with reduced repetition.
In this case
you are not repeating the lines of the user module
or the state.
If you didn't get how the part about item works,
let me visualize that for you.
So any time you come across a play book
probably written by someone else,
and the loop part is confusing,
I would recommend visualizing it like this.
For visualization purposes
a loop would break down into multiple tasks;
within each task you have a variable defined,
which is by default named "item".
And it has the value of each item in the list.
In this case the loop breaks down into 10 or more tasks,
that uses the same user module.
Each task has a variable item,
whose value is set to each item in the loop.
The first task has a value of items with "Joe" the second,
with "George" third "Ravi" and so on it goes.
When the playbook is executed,
this is how it will be ran.
In this case the loop is an array of string values.
Just the user names.
But what if I want to specify the user id as well.
That would mean each item in the loop
would have to have two values;
the user name and user id.
But how do you passing two values in an array,
instead of passing in an array of strings through the loop.
I would pass in an array of dictionaries.
Each dictionary will have two key value pairs.
The keys would be name, and uid,
and values would be name, and ids
of each user.
If you do that what would you specify inside the task.
You can no longer use just "item"
because item is now not just the string.
So lets try to visualize that
to find out what you can specify inside the command.
As before lets break down the loop into multiple tasks.
We'll just look at the first four.
Each task uses the name module and parameters.
We still don't know what to specify for name or uid.
And we can see that each task has a variable item defined.
How does item look in this case?
As before, move each item in the loop
under the item variable in the tasks.
We can now see that the item variable inside each task
in the loop
is a dictionary which has the name as uid of each user.
So within each task to get the username
I could do item dot name.
And to get user id I could do item dot uid.
And that is what we will have in the task section
back in our playbook.
So that's how loops work with array of strings
and array of dictionaries.
With array of dictionaries
remember that you could simply use item dot property name
in the dictionary to get an item
within each dictionary in the list.
But I did all of that to show you how it works
when the data in the array gets really complex
using this kind of visualization technique
of breaking the loop down might help you understand
it a little bit better.
Also note that an array of dictionary
can also be represented like this in a json format.
The loop directive we just saw are used to create
simple loops that iterate over a lot of items.
There's another way to create loops in playbooks.
And that is using the with underscore directives.
This playbook the we developed can also be written
using the with underscore items directive like this.
In fact the loop directive is newly added in Ansible.
In the past we just had the with underscore items directive.
In this case both playbooks yield the same results
and there is not much difference between the two.
For simple loops like the ones we have been working on,
it is recommended to use the loop directive itself.
However in some of the older playbooks,
you might come across the
with items directive so you should understand
what that means when you see that.
Now lets look at the advantage of the with directives.
With items just iterates over a list of items.
We have other directives such as,
with files that iterate over multiple files,
with url that connects to multiple urls,
with mongodb that connects to multiple mongodb data bases.
And these are just a few.
So are these all or are there more,
if so how many are there?
It so happens that these are just a few among the many
with directives available.
In fact everything you see after the with underscore string
is a look up plugin.
So whatever look up plugin you have or you create
you can use with underscore with that.
So what are look up plugins?
Just think of them as custom scripts
that can do specific tasks like read files,
connect to a url or connect to a data base,
or connect to other systems like copernicus or open shift.
Well more on that some other time,
for now head over to coding exercises
and practice working with loops.

--- Coding Exercise: Ansible Loops ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Ansible Modules ---

Instructor: We will now look at modules in Ansible.
Ansible modules are categorized,
into various groups based on their functionality.
Some of them are listed here.
System modules are actions to be performed,
at a system level such as modifying the users
and groups on the system, modifying IP tables,
firewall configurations on the system,
working with logical volume groups,
mounting operations or working with services.
For example, starting, stopping
or restarting services in a system.
Command modules are used to execute commands
or scripts on a host.
This could be simple commands using the command module
or an interactive execution using the expect module,
by responding to prompts.
You could also run a script on the host,
using the script module.
File modules help work with files.
For example, use the ACL module,
to set and retrieve ACL information on files.
Use the archive and un-archive modules to compress
and unpack files.
Use find, lineinfile and replace modules,
to modify the contents of an existing file.
Database modules help in working with databases,
such as MongoDB, MySQL, MSSQL or PostgreSQL,
to add or remove databases
or modify database configurations.
The cloud section has a vast collection of modules,
for various different cloud providers,
like Amazon, Azure, Docker, Google, Openstack
and VMware being just a few of them.
There are a number of modules available for each of these,
that allow you to perform various tasks,
such as creating and destroying instances,
performing configuration changes in networking and security,
managing containers, data centers, clusters,
virtual networking, VSAN and a lot more.
And then there are Windows modules,
that help you use Ansible in a Windows environment.
Some of these are wincopy to copy files,
wincommand to execute a command on a Windows machine
and there are a bunch of other modules available,
to work with files on Windows.
Create a IIS website,
install a software using MSI installer.
Make changes to registry using reg edit
and managed services and users in Windows.
These are just a few modules in few categories.
There are a lot more
and a comprehensive list can be found docs.ansible.com,
along with detailed instructions on each of them.
Let's look at few of these modules in detail,
to understand how you can use them
and how to read the documentation page.
We will start with the command module.
The command module is used to execute a command,
on a remote node.
The parameters of the command module,
as listed in the documentation page is shown here.
Shown is a sample Ansible playbook using the command module.
As you can see, to use the module,
you simply create a key value pair of the module name
and the parameter, which is the command in this case.
In this case,
we are instructing Ansible to run the date command,
on the host, followed by executing,
the cat etc resolv.conf command,
to list the contents of the file.
In case you needed to change directory,
before executing a command.
For example, I will rewrite the second command,
in a different form now by removing etc from the cat command
and setting change directory parameter to /etc.
This will ensure that Ansible changes directory,
to /etc before executing the command.
This is how a parameter
and value is passed to this command module.
The creates parameter is used to perform a check,
before the command is run.
For example, this command to create the folder,
will only run if the folder does not exist.
The remaining parameters are self explanatory,
so we will skip them.
Except for this one right here called free form.
This is worth looking at as you may see it,
in different modules.
Free form indicates that this module,
takes a free form command to run.
So what does that mean?
You will not be able to input a parameter,
with the name free form, like how we just used,
change directory or creates options.
Our command input such as cad etc resolv.conf
or make directory/folder is the free form input.
Not all modules support input like this.
For example, the copy module, which is used to copy files,
from a source to a destination,
only takes parameterized input and not free form input.
So as you can see here, copy requires a source file,
as SRC parameter and destination as test parameter.
However, the previous command module,
did not really require you to specify,
key equals value format for the command to run.
The command in the command module is a free form parameter.
Another module to look at is the script module.
The script module executes a script,
which is located locally on the Ansible controller machine,
on one or more remote nodes,
after transferring it over.
To run a script on one or hundreds of servers,
you really don't have to copy it over to all the servers.
Ansible takes care of automatically copying the script,
to the remote node and then executing it,
on the remote systems.
This is done through a very simple play,
that looks like this.
Use the script module and specify the location,
of the script on the Ansible controller machine
and the arguments.
Let's look at the service module.
The service module is used to maintain services,
on a system such as starting, stopping
or restarting a service.
This Ansible playbook is used to start,
various services in a particular order.
First we start the database service,
using the service module.
Then the service module, unlike the previous modules,
do not have a freeform input,
which means you have to pass input,
in a key value pair format.
We use the name parameter,
to specify the name of the service we wish to start,
in this case, postgresql
and the state parameter indicates the operation,
we would like to perform, in this case started.
Now, if you're wondering why is it started,
instead of start, well hold onto your thoughts
and we will come back to that in a bit.
Now, there are two ways of writing this statement,
you can either write it like this
or write it in a dictionary or map format like this.
They're one and the same.
Remember, in YAML terms, name and state,
are properties of service.
Let's add a few more tasks to start,
httpd service followed by nginx service like this.
So back to our question on,
why the action is started and not start?
If we were to instruct Ansible to start a service,
we would say start the service httpd
and not started the service httpd.
So then why is it started and not start?
We're not instructing Ansible to start the service.
Instead, we are instructing Ansible,
to ensure that the service httpd is started.
That essentially means if httpd service,
is not already started, started.
If httpd service is already started,
then don't do anything.
This is called idempotency.
As per the Ansible documentation
an operation is idempotent,
if the result of performing it once,
is exactly the same as the result of performing it,
repeatedly without any intervening actions,
thus started, stopped and restarted actions,
instruct Ansible to ensure the service,
is in a particular state.
Majority of the modules in Ansible,
are idempotent and Ansible highly recommends this.
The overall idea is that,
you should be able to run the same playbook again
and Ansible should report,
that everything is in expected state.
If something is not,
Ansible takes care of putting it to the expected state.
The lineinfile module is used to find a line in a file
and replace it or add it if it doesn't already exist.
For example, we're given a task to add a new DNS server,
into the etc resolv.conf file.
This simple Ansible playbook using the lineinfile task,
adds the new name server information,
into the etc resolv.conf file.
Remember, the lineinfile module is idempotent.
Let's compare this Ansible playbook,
with a simple script that tries to achieve the same results.
If this script is run multiple times,
it adds a new entry into the file each time,
which is not desired.
If you run the Ansible playbook multiple times,
it will ensure there's only a single entry in the file.
Neat.
Well, that's it for now on modules in Ansible.
Head over to the coding exercises section
and practice working with modules.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Introduction to Ansible Plugins ---

Instructor: Now, considering you have
a complex infrastructure with multiple VPCs,
virtual machines, and load balancers
spread across different regions,
your goal is to automate the provisioning
and configuration of these resources using Ansible.
While Ansible provides a rich set
of built-in modules and features,
you soon realize that you need additional functionality.
You might need an inventory solution
that can dynamically fetch real-time information
about your cloud resources,
such as instances, security groups, or tags
directly from your cloud provider's API
to ensure that your inventory remains up to date
and reflects the current state of your infrastructure.
But here, Ansible's static inventory file falls short
in managing the dynamic nature of your cloud environment.
Another requirement could be creating AWS EC2 instances
with specific AMI versions instance, types,
and security groups
tailored to your application's unique requirements.
That means you require the ability
to provision cloud resources with custom configurations
that go beyond what Ansible provides out of the box.
You may also need a solution that allows you
to dynamically configure load balancing rules,
SSL certificates, and health checks
based on the specific needs of your applications.
This advanced load balancer management capability
enhances the performance and reliability
of your cloud-based services.
To address these challenges,
you can leverage Ansible plugins,
which provide extensibility and customization options
beyond the core Ansible features.
In Ansible, a plugin is a piece of code
that extends or modifies the functionality of Ansible.
Plugins can be used to enhance various aspects of Ansible
such as inventory, modules, callbacks, filters, and more.
They provide a flexible and powerful way
to customize Ansible's behavior
and tailor it to your specific requirements.
An Ansible plugin can be in the form of an inventory,
plugin, module plugin, action plugin,
callback plugin, or any other plugin type.
Each plugin type serves a specific purpose
and offers unique capabilities
for extending Ansible's functionality.
Now let us see how Ansible plugins
overcome the challenges mentioned previously.
Ansible offers a wide range of plugins
to address these issues.
Let's take a look at these.
By creating a custom inventory plugin,
you can fetch real-time information
about your cloud resources
directly from your cloud provider's API.
This dynamic inventory plugin
enables you to have an up-to-date view
of your infrastructure,
ensuring accurate and reliable automation.
Next is the module plugin.
When you develop a custom module plugin,
you gain the power to provision cloud resources
with custom configurations.
This plugin integrates seamlessly
with your cloud provider's API,
allowing you to create instances with specific AMI versions,
instance, types and security groups
tailored to your applications requirements.
Lastly, we have the action plugin.
This plugin simplifies load balancer management.
With an action plugin,
you define high level tasks in your playbooks,
making it easy to configure load balancing rules,
SSL certificates, and health checks.
The action plugin handles the underlying API calls
and ensures consistent and reliable load balancer management
across your hybrid cloud environment.
Apart from these plugins,
Ansible offers other plugins
that can further extend its functionality.
Lookup plugins are handy tools that fetch data
from external sources, like databases or APIs,
and let you use that data within your playbooks.
Filter plugins offer additional data manipulation
and transformation capabilities within your playbooks,
allowing you to modify variables or format output.
Connection plugins enable Ansible to connect and communicate
with various target systems,
such as SSH, WinRM, or Docker.
In addition, dynamic inventory plugins
allow Ansible to retrieve inventory information
from various sources
like cloud providers or configuration management databases.
Callback plugins provide hooks
into Ansible's execution lifecycle,
allowing you to capture events and perform custom actions
during playbook execution.
By exploring and utilizing these Ansible plugins,
you can extend Ansible's capabilities even further
and address a wide range of automation challenges
in your hybrid cloud environment.

--- Modules & Plugins Index ---

Instructor: Let's consider an example scenario
where you need to manage the configuration
of network devices in your infrastructure
using Ansible.
You want to find a module or plugins
that supports the specific type of network device you have,
such as Cisco routers.
By utilizing the modules and plugins index,
you can search for modules or plugins
related to network device management.
You can filter the results
based on the category or keyword,
such as Network or Cisco.
The index will provide you
with a list of modules and plugins that match your criteria
along with detailed documentation
explaining how to use them effectively.
In this case,
you might discover the cisco.ios module,
which is designed specifically
for managing Cisco iOS devices.
The documentation for this module
provides examples and guidelines
on how to configure and manage Cisco routers using Ansible.
Armed with this information,
you can seamlessly integrate the cisco.ios module
into your automation workflows
and efficiently manage your network devices.
The modules and plugins index
serves as a centralized and organized resource
that provides detailed information
about the available modules and plugins in Ansible.
It offers a convenient way to discover and explore
the vast ecosystem of modules and plugins,
enabling you to find the right tool for the job
and make the most of Ansible's automation capabilities.
Without a comprehensive index,
it would be challenging to keep track
of the numerous modules and plugins available
and understand their specific functionalities.
Let us now go over the key features and benefits
of the modules and plugins index.
First off, you've got search and filtering.
It's like having your own personal assistant
dedicated to helping you find the perfect tools for the job.
Whether you need to search
by keywords, categories, or specific criteria,
the index has got you covered.
It's a real time-saver, trust me, and that's not all.
Detailed documentation is another fantastic feature.
Each module and plugins in the index
comes with its own user manual.
You'll know exactly what each tool does, how to use it,
and even get some examples to follow.
It's like having a tutor by your side
guiding you through your automation projects,
and here's the best part.
With version compatibility,
you no longer have to worry about trying a tool
only to discover it doesn't work
with your version of Ansible.
The modules and plugins index have you covered.
It provides clear information
on which versions each module or plugin supports,
ensuring you have a seamless experience
without any compatibility issues,
but what truly sets the modules and plugins index apart
is the power of community contributions.
It's not just a one-man show.
It includes contributions from the whole Ansible community.
This means you get to benefit
from the collective wisdom and experience
of all those smart folks out there.
In a nutshell, the modules and plugins index
is like your one-stop shop for all things Ansible.
It gives you access to tons of tools
that can help you automate tasks
across different systems and platforms.
It's like having a Swiss Army knife for automation.

--- Coding Exercise - Ansible Modules ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- If you like it, share it! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Handlers ---

Instructor: Imagine you are managing
a web server infrastructure with multiple servers.
You frequently make changes to
the web server's configuration file
to adjust various settings.
However, modifying the configuration file alone
does not apply the changes immediately.
To ensure that changes take effect,
you need to restart the web server service.
In this scenario, you would have to manually execute
a task to restart the web server service.
after every configuration update.
This manual intervention becomes time consuming
and prone to errors as the infrastructure grows.
This is where Ansible handlers become handy.
With handlers, you can define an action
to restart the web server service
and associate it with the task
that modifies the configuration file.
This creates a dependency between the task and the handler.
Now, whenever the configuration file
is modified during the Playbook run,
the associated handler is triggered,
ensuring that the web server service
is automatically restarted.
By utilizing handlers, you eliminate the need
for manual intervention, and ensure that
the web server service is always restarted when necessary.
This simplifies the management of your infrastructure,
reduces human error, and improves
the efficiency of your automation processes.
Handlers in Ansible are special tasks
associated with specific events or notifications.
They're typically defined in a playbook,
and are executed only when triggered
by a task notifying them.
Handlers enable you to manage actions
that depend on the state,
or configuration changes of your systems.
Here's an example playbook that demonstrates
the use of handlers.
In the example shown, the task Copy Application Code
uses the Copy module to deploy
the application code to the target servers.
It includes the notify directive,
which triggers the associated handler
named Restart Application Service
when this task completes.
The handler restart application service uses
the service module to restart the application service
by specifying the service name
and the desired state as restarted.
This ensures that the application service
is automatically restarted on all servers
whenever the application code is deployed.

--- Ansible Roles ---

Instructor: In this lecture
we discuss about roles in Ansible.
Just like how you would assign roles
to different people in the real world, making them doctors
engineers, astronauts, policemen, or chef.
In the Ansible world, you would assign roles
to blank servers to make them a database server
or a web server
or a Redis messaging server or a backup server.
Assigning a role in the real world
means doing everything one needs to do
to make someone a doctor or an engineer
like for example, sending the person to a medical school
earning a medical degree, completing a residency program
and finally obtaining a license to practice.
Or with an engineer
it would be going to an engineering school
earning a bachelor's degree, gaining field experience
or getting a postgraduate degree.
In the automation world
assigning a role means doing everything you need to do
to make a server a database server
such as installing the prerequisites required for MySQL
installing MySQL packages themselves
configuring the MySQL service
and finally configuring database with our users.
With a web server
it would be, again, installing the prerequisites for Nginx
installing Nginx packages, configuring Nginx services
and configuring the custom webpages.
By now, we know how to get these tasks done
using Ansible playbooks.
We have done these a lot.
Here's a simple playbook that can do this.
But then, if you can do this in a playbook
why do you need roles?
This set of tasks, to install and perform basic
configurations on a MySQL database is going to
remain mostly common.
Once a person develops this Ansible playbook
it can be shared with hundreds of thousands
of others trying to do the same thing, install MySQL.
Instead of all of them rewriting this piece of code
you could package it into a role and reuse it later.
Next time, you could simply assign the role you created
and in a playbook like this, be it a single server
or hundreds of servers, that's all you need.
So that's the primary purpose of roles
to make your work reusable
be it for other tasks or projects
within your organization or outside for others globally.
Roles also help in organizing your code within Ansible.
Roles introduce a set of best practices
that must be followed to organize all tasks
into a task directory.
All variables used by these tasks in the vars directory.
Any default values goes into the default directory.
All handlers go into the handlers directory.
And any templates used by the playbooks
go into the templates directory.
Roles also help in sharing your code
with others in the Ansible community.
Ansible Galaxy is one such community
where you can find thousands of roles
for almost any task you can think of.
Installing and configuring different web servers
different database servers, automation tools
monitoring tools, packaging tools
security software, et cetera.
So before you start writing those playbooks
I highly recommend taking a look at this community first.
There must be a role created for that already by someone.
So how do you get started with roles?
It's easy, as we discussed in the previous slide
first, we create the directory structure required for a role
but you don't have to do that manually.
Ansible Galaxy has a neat tool that can
create a skeleton for you.
Use the Ansible dash galaxy init command to initialize
and create a directory structure.
Remember, this is to create your own role
from scratch and then move all of your code
into the task directory into a file, and that's it.
So how do you use your role within your playbook?
Say I have my playbook
within a directory called my playbook.
My playbook dot yml file contains a simple play
to install and configure MySQL on my TP server.
I would like to assign the role I created using
the roles directive like this, but if I were to do that
how does my playbook know where that role is?
I could have created that role anywhere on my system.
How can my playbook find that role?
There are different ways to do that.
I could create a directory called roles
within my playbook folder
and move the role I created under it.
When the playbook runs, Ansible looks for a role named MySQL
under the roles directory, and that's one way of doing it.
Or you can move the roles
to a common directory designated for roles on your system
at etc Ansible roles location.
That's the default location where Ansible searches for roles
if it can't be found in your playbooks directory.
Of course, that's defined in the Ansible configuration file
as roles path, which you can modify if required.
Once you have created your role and placed it
in your roles directory and used it in a playbook
you may share it with the community by uploading it
to Ansible Galaxy through a GitHub repository.
Now, what if you don't want to use a role from Galaxy?
Instead, you want to find an existing role
and use it in your playbook.
To find roles, you could search from the Ansible Galaxy UI
or do it from the command line interface using
the Ansible dash galaxy search command.
To use a role, run the Ansible dash galaxy install command
with the name of the role.
The role is extracted to the default roles directory
at etc Ansible roles location.
The roles can now be used in your playbook
by specifying the same name like this
as an array of strings, as role names.
Another way to specify roles, as an array of dictionaries
this will allow you to pass in additional options
to the role, such as to execute the role
by escalating privileges, by specifying the become directive
or to pass in additional parameters like the MySQL
underscore user underscore name option like this.
To summarize, roles make it really easy to develop, reuse
and share Ansible playbooks.
To configure a single server
with both database and web application on it
assign both roles to it.
To configure it separately on separate servers
create two plays in the playbook, one for each server
and assign the respective roles to them.
To view a list of roles currently installed
on the Ansible Galaxy list command
to view the location where roles would be installed
check the Ansible configuration using the
Ansible config dump command.
The default role path is where the roles are installed.
While installing roles
you may use the dash P option to install it
in the current directory under roles like this.
Well, that's it for this lecture.

--- Ansible Collections ---

Instructor: Let's consider a scenario.
You work as a network engineer responsible
for managing large network infrastructure.
You need to automate the configuration
and management of network devices
from various vendors such as Cisco, Juniper, and Arista.
While Ansible provides a set
of built-in modules for network automation,
you require additional vendor-specific modules
and functionalities.
In this scenario, you can leverage Ansible Collections
to access specialized network automation content.
Collections such as network.cisco, network.juniper,
and network.arista offer vendor-specific modules, roles,
and playbooks tailored for managing network devices
from each respective vendor.
By installing these collections,
you gain access to the specialized functionalities required
to automate your network infrastructure effectively.
Here's an example command
to install the network.cisco collection.
Once you have installed it,
you can utilize the modules
and roles provided by the network.cisco collection
in your playbooks and benefit
from the specialized functionality it offers.
This allows you to seamlessly integrate network automation
tasks specific to Cisco devices into your
existing Ansible workflows.
Now let us see what Ansible Collections are.
Ansible Collections are a way to package
and distribute Ansible content, including modules, roles,
plugins, and other related assets.
A collection is a self-contained unit
that encapsulates these components,
making them easily accessible and shareable.
Collections can be created by both
Ansible community members and vendors,
offering a wide variety of specialized functionalities.
With Ansible Collections, you gain some major benefits.
The first one is expanded functionality.
Let's take a look at an example
of using a collection for the AWS.
You can use a collection to manage AWS resources,
extending Ansible's native capabilities.
First, install the AWS collection,
then you can use the modules
from this collection in your playbook.
Second is modularity and re-usability.
Have a look at an example of creating
and using a custom collection.
You can create a collection
that encapsulates specific roles, modules, and plugins.
This is the directory structure for a custom collection.
You can then use this collection in different playbooks
promoting re-usability.
Another benefit is simplified distribution and management.
Let's take a look at this example
of versioning and dependency management.
You can specify the required collections
and their versions in a requirements.yml file
like the one shown on the screen.
Then you can install all the required collections
with one command.
This approach centralizes the management of collections,
ensuring that you have the correct versions
and dependencies.
Well, that's all for now.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Coding Exercise: Ansible Handlers, Roles and Collections ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Templating ---

Instructor: This lecture, we will look at Jinja2.
For those of you who are new to templating,
let's first see what it is.
Say for example, the CEO of a company wishes
to send an invitation letter
to all of his employees to invite them to a party.
So he goes, "Hi, employee"
And then, "I'm glad to invite you
along with your family members -"
followed by the names of the family members
and then to attend the party arranged
for the completion of 10 years, et cetera, blah, blah, blah
and finally signed off by him.
He wants to send the same email to all of his employees
but addressed to each of them specifically.
So you must customize the email for each employee.
In this email, the addressee and their family members
are what needs to be customized.
We want to use the same email format, the same content.
So the email becomes the template
and the names are what varies,
so they become the variables.
You can have as many variables as you want.
A templating engine is responsible
for taking a template and applying
a given set of variables to it
to create usable outputs.
It could be to generate one email
or hundreds of such emails
and that was a simple generic use case.
In the IT space, it is commonly used in generating webpages.
So you have a template of HTML webpage,
uses set of variables
and together they create a custom HTML page.
Another popular use case
is with automation tools like Ansible.
Ansible uses templating extensively
to customize playbooks to have custom information
or to create custom configuration files.
Here's a configuration file used for configuring
MySQL database and with variables applied,
the outcome is a valid configuration file that can be used.
So what is a Jinja2 template?
If you look up Jinja2 online,
you'll see that it is a fully-featured
templating engine for Python.
It is beautiful and powerful
and has a wide range of features.
We will look at some of those
and practice using them as well.
A simple and easy use case is to substitute parts of a train
with a value from a variable.
If the value of the variable, my_name is Bond,
then the template would resolve to the name is Bond.
What if we want the name to be an uppercase?.
Well, we could simply append the keyword upper
to a variable separated by a pipe character.
This way the value in the variable
will be converted to uppercase.
Similarly, we have lower to convert it to lowercase
and title to convert a string to title case.
These are called as filters in Jinja2.
use replace to replace a character
or part of a string to something else.
In this case, we're going to replace Bond with Bourne.
Ideally, if you don't declare the value for a variable
the Jinja2 templating engine will fail
with a message that it is undefined.
Now, if you don't want the templating engine to fail
instead use a default value for a variable.
If it's not defined,
then use the default filter.
For example, if you hadn't defined
the first name explicitly to a value,
if you use the default filter to set a value
it'll use that value and not fail.
If you had defined a value for the variable
then it will use that instead.
Let's look at some list and set based filters.
Say we have an array of three numbers.
To get the smallest number in the array, use the MIN filter.
To get the largest number in the array,
use the MAX filter to get a list
of unique numbers from an array,
use the unique filter.
Use the union filter to combine and retrieve
the unique numbers from two arrays.
Use the intersect filter to get the common numbers
in two arrays.
Use the random filter to get a random number
between one to 100.
Use the join filter to join an array of words.
So far, we've just been looking at one-liners.
At times, you may want to use a condition or a loop
just like in programming languages.
For example, to generate a file with a list of numbers,
use a four-loop like this.
Now, note that here, instead of double curly braces,
you're using single curly braces
and a percentage symbol that indicates
that the Jinja2 code is a block and not a one-liner.
You may also use conditional statements
like an if statement to print only if the number is two.
You could wrap the print statement
within an IF and ENDIF block.
Well, this it for this lecture.

--- Jinja2 Templates for Dynamic Configs - Demo ---

Instructor: In previous lecture, we saw Jinja2 as it is.
In this lecture, we will see how Ansible implements Jinja2.
These filters, along with many others
documented in the Jinja2 website,
are built-in filters that come with Jinja2.
However, Ansible has extended those
with its own set of filters.
Jinja2 is extensible,
so Ansible added its own set of filters to it,
such as those specific to infrastructure use cases
like converting to and from YAML and JSON,
working with file names and directory paths
in Linux and Windows, working with passwords,
regular expressions, et cetera.
Let's look at some file-related filters.
To get the file name from a full path,
use the basename filter.
In this case, it will return hosts
from the file path etc/hosts,
but this won't work for Windows,
as the path in Windows uses backward slash.
So we must use win_basename.
In Windows, to separate the drive letter from the path,
use the win_splitdrive option.
In this case, it returns an array
where the first element is the drive letter
and the second element is the path.
What if we want just the drive letter?
So we chain another filter called first to this expression.
This returns the first element of the array,
so this is something new.
In this case, we are first using the win_splitdrive filter
to separate the drive letter and the path,
but that returns an array,
so we are feeding that array as input to the first filter.
You can chain as many filters as you want in this way.
So how does Jinja2 work in playbooks?
For example, here we have a simple inventory file
with a few variables
and a playbook that has a variable used in it.
Before executing the playbook, Ansible runs the playbook
through the Jinja2 templating engine,
providing the set of variables it gathered
through inventory parameters.
The Jinja2 templating engine
spits out a new version of the playbook
with all the variables in place,
which is then used for the actual execution.
The Ansible documentation section has a section on filters.
There are numerous examples here
that will come in handy during the exercises.
Let's start with a simple scenario.
We're setting up web servers,
and we wanna copy our webpage and index.html file
stored locally to the web server's
default index.html location.
We use Ansible's copy module to copy the local file
to the remote location on all web servers.
Assuming that Nginx is already installed
on these web servers, we are on the playbook now.
The index.html file is copied to all of those web servers,
and when you access the web server,
we see the webpage that says, "This is a Web Server".
We are requested to make the web server print its hostname
and IP address when the webpage is displayed.
One way to do that is to copy a separate version of the file
to each server when they're copied
which has the hostname in it.
The files are still the same
except for the value of the hostname.
Only if we could replace the name inside
with a variable like this as we do in the playbooks.
So can we do that?
Can we specify a variable inside a file
that we want to copy like this?
Well, we could, but not like this.
The index.html file is no longer a valid HTML file.
It is now our template that we will use
to generate a valid HTML file for each of our servers.
To be specific, it is a Jinja2 template
like the ones we discussed before in the previous lectures.
We wanna convert the index.html file into a Jinja2 template
with some variables inside it,
so the file extension to be used is .j2.
A best practice is to simply add the .j2 extension
to whatever file you have converted to a Jinja2 template.
In this case, index.html.j2.
So we now have a template file that needs to be processed
to get the variables replaced with actual values
before they can be copied over to the target hosts,
but the copy module that we are using now
does not have the ability to perform variable interpolation.
It will simply copy the file as is.
That's where we use the template module
instead of the copy module.
The options for both modules are similar,
but this time, the source file is going to be
the Jinja2 template file we used,
and while we're at it, the actual variable that helps us
in getting the name specified in the inventory file
for a host is the inventory_hostname variable.
So that's the right variable to use.
When the playbook is run,
Ansible first takes the Jinja2 template,
then does variable interpolation,
converts the template file into files
to be copied into each server,
and then copies them to the target servers.
Let's see what happens when the playbook is run now
in our visualization mode.
When the playbook is run,
Ansible creates three separate subprocesses for each host.
Each process creates its own set of parameters
for each host by performing its own variable interpolation.
It then proceeds to gathering facts from the host,
so each subprocess now has a lot more information
about the host.
Then, the process starts executing playbooks.
Each subprocess executes the playbook
targeting the respective host.
Each subprocess executes the template task
for the respective host by taking the index.html.j2 file
and performing variable interpolation on it
by replacing the variables with their values,
thus generating an index.html file from it.
The template module then copies over the files
to the target hosts.
The index.html file was just a simple example.
You may use the same procedure
for different configuration files,
for example, an Nginx configuration file
or a Redis configuration file like this.
Remember that you can use Jinja2 filters within these.
For example, we use the default filter
to instruct Jinja2 to use a default value
of 6379 for the port if it is not specified explicitly.
You could use Jinja2 blocks as well.
For example, to generate a list of nameserver entries,
in /etc/resolve.conf file,
you could use a Jinja2 for loop using an array
to generate a target file.
When using templates in roles,
create them under the templates directory.

--- Coding Exercise: Ansible Templates ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Revisiting Ansible ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Demo - Part 1 - Setup Lab - Install VirtualBox ---

Presenter: Hello and welcome to this demo.
In this demo we are going to see how to set up
a lab environment to play around with Ansible.
In this demo, we will be setting up
an entire lab environment on our laptop from scratch.
For this, we will use a virtualization tool
called Oracle VirtualBox since it works with all flavors
of operating systems like Windows, Linux, and OSX.
So this is what we plan to do.
We will first install Oracle VirtualBox on our laptop,
and then we'll create a template system
based on the CentOS operating system.
Once we create the template,
we will then be able to easily create
multiple virtual machines as required from that template.
For the purpose of this lab, we will first create
a Ansible control machine from the template,
and then we will move on to create two other machines
which will act as the target machine
for Ansible to perform configuration changes on.
Okay, so in my case, I have a Windows system,
so I will be setting up a lab environment
on my Windows system.
It doesn't really matter what operating system you're on.
You could follow the same instructions
to set up a lab environment on Linux
or your Mac operating systems.
So in our case, we're going to install VirtualBox.
So go to virtualbox.org,
and in the website you will find a link
to download the VirtualBox software.
In the download page, you will find links
to download VirtualBox for specific operating systems.
In my case, mine is Windows.
I'm gonna click on Windows
and I'm going to download the software.
Once downloaded, run the executable
and follow the instructions in the installation wizard
to complete installation.
In my case, I've already installed it,
so I'm just going to cancel that.
After you install,
open up the Oracle VM VirtualBox interface
and it will look something like this.
Now the next step is to deploy virtual machines.
In order to do that, you could either create a machine,
attach a CD drive of an operating system,
and follow the instructions to install the operating system
as we are familiar with.
However, there's also another easy way.
There are pre-installed pre-configured
operating system images available on the internet.
We could use those to easily deploy
as many virtual machines as we need.
For this, if you go to the website osboxes.org,
you will find a lot of pre-installed pre-configured images
of various operating systems.
Go to the site and select
the VM Images VirtualBox Images link at the top.
Then you'll find a list
of various different operating systems.
From this, we will select CentOS.
And then it will take us to the CentOS page.
Here you can see information
on downloading the CentOS image.
In our case, we're downloading
the VirtualBox image for CentOS 7,
and we're downloading the 64-bit version.
So remember to download that particular version.
We will then, it is downloaded as a .7zfile
which is a compressed file.
So you need a software to uncompress it
like a TAR or a WinZip.
In my case, I'm using the 7zip software
to extract the contents of the file into a folder.
Wait for it to finish the extraction process.
Once finished, if you go into the folder,
you will see that there's a folder called 64 bit.
And inside that folder, you'll find a file
with the extension .vdi.
That stands for virtual disc
and that is what we will use to create a virtual machine.
We're now ready to create a new virtual machine.
So we go back into the Oracle VM VirtualBox interface,
click on New, and we fill in the name and operating system.
Now I will name the virtual machine
that I'm creating as CentOS-template,
because, as we discussed, our goal is to create a template,
and then use that template to create
as many virtual machines as I need.
So I'm going to name it as CentOS-template.
I will now select the type as Linux.
And the version, since it does not have CentOS listed,
I could simply select Other.
Now, as you can see under the versions,
there are 32-bit as well as 64-bit options.
In our case, we downloaded the CentOS 64-bit version,
so we must select a 64-bit option.
Now in case you do not see the 64-bit options in this list,
now that is most probably because you do not have
the virtualization technology enabled on your laptop.
To enable virtualization technology on your laptop,
it is usually under the BIOS settings.
So if you simply Google enable virtualization in BIOS
followed by your laptop model,
you will see a set of results.
It usually looks something like this.
Under the BIOS, under the Advanced BIOS Features,
you'll have something called as Virtualization Technology,
and you must ensure that it is set to Enabled state.
So once you do that, restart your laptop,
and you will find the 64-bit option.
Select the other Linux 64-bit option for this
and click Next.
In the next, here we select a memory size.
By default it's set to 512 MB,
and let's change that to around two GB.
So we'll set it to two gigs.
In the next step, we select
the hard disk that we downloaded.
So in this case, the default selection
is create a virtual hard disk now,
but that is not what we want.
We already have a pre-built image of a hard disk downloaded,
so we're gonna specify that.
Select the use an existing virtual hard disk file option,
and click on Browse, and browse to the file
that we downloaded and extracted
which is the CentOS 7 file with the VDI extension.
Click on OK and that creates the file.
Now before powering on the template,
we will go into Settings and make a few more changes.
Go to System and we'll increase the CPU to around two.
And we go to Network section,
and we will set the adapter one to Bridged Network.
This way my virtual machine gets an IP address
as well as it can connect to the internet
to download and install packages as required.
I will now go ahead and power on the system.
Okay, I'm now at the login prompt.
Select the default user which is osboxes.
Now the password, to find out the password
for any images downloaded from osboxes.org,
go to the Info section,
and then you'll see that the username is osboxes
and the password is osboxes.org.
So I'm gonna use that password osboxes.org.
I'll click on Sign In to log into the CentOS system.
I'll open up a terminal and type in if config.
The if config command tells me the IP address
currently assigned to the virtual machine.
As you can see, it is 192.168.1.112.
Now I will open up a SSH terminal
to SSH into that virtual machine.
And in my case, I'm using a terminal software
called as MobaXterm.
I like to use this.
This is a free software that is available.
You could use any SSH terminal software.
You could simply use PuTTY as well.
So create a new SSH session and specify the IP address
which is 192.168.1.112,
and the username is osboxes.
Click on OK.
I will specify the password
which is osboxes.org, and I'm logged in.
Once I verify that I'm able to SSH into it,
I will now shut it down so that I can create
clones of this virtual machine.

--- Demo - Part 2 - Setup Lab - Clone VMs and Install Ansible ---

-: Hello and welcome to this demo.
Okay, the virtual machine is now powered off.
I will now right click on it and select Clone.
And, in the new virtual machine page,
I'm gonna give it a name.
So the first clone is going to be the Ansible master.
So I'm going to name it as Ansible-controller.
And make sure that you check the reset Mac address option,
because I need a new Mac address
for all my virtual machines.
In the next page,
I'm going to make sure I select a Linked Clone.
A linked clone will basically is space saving.
It does not consume the entire...
It does not clone the entire virtual machine,
so it does not consume that much space.
I'm now going to click on Clone
to create a clone of of the virtual machine.
So I now have the Ansible controller
and I'm going to create another clone
for the Ansible target.
For the first Ansible target,
I will name it as Ansible-target1.
I'll make sure I check the initialized Mac address option,
and I will select the linked clone.
So now I have a template,
I have an Ansible controller, and an Ansible target.
I will now power up the Ansible controller
and the Ansible target.
Once they're powered on,
I will log into it using the osboxes password.
I will open a terminal
and run the IF config command to find out the IP address.
Now the reason I find out the IP address
and establish an SSH connection is that it is...
I find it very easy to work with these virtual machines
over an SSH session rather than
through this terminal window.
That way I can easily copy and paste commands.
Okay, I will now establish an SSH session
to my Ansible master.
The IP address is 192.168.1.113.
The username is osboxes.
This time I will name the session as Ansible-controller.
Okay, so I'm logged in.
I will also establish a session to my target machine,
which is at 192.168.1.114.
And I will name the session as Ansible-target1.
Okay, so I now have a session
to the controller and the target.
The next step is to rename the host.
As you can see, both my controller and target
are named as osboxes.
I'd like like to name the controller as controller,
and the target as target.
So, the first step is to modify the /etc/hostname file.
If you look inside the file, it is currently osboxes.
So I'm going to remove that
and replace it with the name that I want,
which is Ansible-controller.
Now going to save that.
And the other place to modify is the etc/hosts file.
So I'm going to edit the /etc/host file.
And I'll get rid of whatever is already there
and replace it with the name that I want it to have.
I will leave the local host part as it is.
And I can now restart my system.
I will repeat the same steps for the target1 system.
Okay, I will now restart my system.
Now we're going to duplicate what we did with target1.
We'll create another clone, called target2.
Make sure we re-initialize the Mac address
and select Linked Clone as the option for clone type.
And then we will power on the target2 machine.
Once it's powered on, we will log into it,
open a terminal, and find the IP address of it.
In this case, it is 192.168.1.115.
We will now establish an SSH connection to the system
from my SSH terminal.
And I will name the session as Ansible-target2.
I will now edit the host name to target2.
We will shut it down and wait for it to come back up.
I will now establish connectivity to my systems again.
And as you can see, the name is applied.
I can now see it as Ansible-controller.
So the next step is to install Ansible
on the Ansible controller.
If you go to the Ansible documentation site
and look at the installation guide,
you will see instructions for installing Ansible
on various operating systems.
If you look at the instructions under CentOS,
you can see that it's as simple as running the command,
yum install ansible.
So I'm just going to copy that,
and execute that on my CentOS system
and provide the confirmation to install the packages.
Okay, once completed,
you can run the Ansible--version command
to confirm that Ansible is installed
and to confirm the version of the Ansible
installed on the system.
So that concludes the Ansible installation part.

--- Labs - FAQ ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Student Preferences ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Course Completion Certificate ---

Trainer: Hello there.
You're at the end of the course
so congratulations once again.
A lot of my students reach out to me
asking how to generate their course completion certificate
so I thought I'll quickly walk you through that process.
When you select your course
you will see your progress in the top, right corner.
You should have completed a hundred percent of the course
to get your course completion certificate.
Now, I would completely understand
if you had to skip a few lectures
that weren't as interesting to you, so don't worry.
I'll show you how to mark them complete manually.
Firstly, you need to identify the lectures
that were not completed.
Each topic in the course curriculum
has a check mark next to it.
Go through and find out which ones are missing a check mark
and click on them to manually mark them complete.
Once you do that for all, you should see the progress
set to hundred percent at the top
and that's all you need to do.
Refresh your page and give it a few minutes
and you should see the Get certificate button.
Click on the Leave a rating button to rate
or update your rating on the course.
I always aim for a five star rated course
so write to me and let me know if you think otherwise.
Now, click on the Get certificate button to
get your course completion certificate.
Click on the download button to download it
or the share button to share it.
When you share on LinkedIn, don't forget to tag me in it.
Well, thank you for joining me in this course once again
and I will see you in the next course.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
