

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction ---

(typewriter typing)
Instructor: Hello and welcome
to this advanced course on Ansible.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and I will be your instructor for this course.
I'm a solutions architect and I specialize
in designing solutions around cloud and automation.
This is the second course in the series on Ansible
and in this course, we will be focusing on advanced concepts
in Ansible and some real life use cases.
This is an advanced course
so there are some prerequisites necessary.
You must have a basic understanding of YAML language
which is Ansible's coding language.
You must have basic understanding of Ansible,
what its use cases are, what inventory files are,
and how a basic Ansible playbook is written.
All of these are covered in the first course,
Ansible for the absolute beginner, where you'll learn
all of these topics along with coding exercises on each
of these topics that will get you comfortable with Ansible.
So how exactly does this course work?
This course contains lectures on various topics
followed by some coding exercises
where you will practice writing Ansible playbooks.
You will be developing Ansible playbooks
for different use cases, and especially focus on
a lot of advanced playbooks in this course.
The coding exercises will validate your playbooks
and ensure you have written them correctly.
We will also spend some time going
through demos and understanding how to set up an environment
on your own to get started easily.
And there are some extra demos available
in case you are interested in exploring
some additional tools or productivity tools around Ansible.
So what are we going to cover in this course?
Whatever you see on the left are the topics we covered
in the beginner's course.
So we expect you to know how to set up Ansible,
what YAML files are and how to create them.
And we expect you to know what Ansible inventory files,
playbooks, variables, conditionals and loops are.
In this course, we will be covering more playbooks
to develop some real life use cases.
We will understand roles in more detail and how to develop
and reuse roles ourselves and use them in our playbooks.
We will look at asynchronous actions, error handling,
Jinja2 templating, lookups, vault,
dynamic inventory custom modules,
and we'll also understand what plugins are
and how to develop custom plugins yourselves.
And finally,
we will always practice, practice, and practice.
So sit tight and enjoy the ride.

--- Recap ---

-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is (indistinct)
and we are learning Ansible Advanced Topics.
In this lecture, we will be recapping what we covered
in the Ansible for the absolute beginner's course.
If you're here right after that course
you could skip this lecture and go right ahead.
Or else, if you wish to refresh your memory,
feel free to stay.
So we learned that Ansible helps you
increase your productivity
and efficiency by automating a lot of repetitive tasks
in your environment.
Whether it be sizing and creating new hosts
or virtual machines,
applying configurations on them,
patching hundreds of servers,
migrations, deploying applications,
or even performing security and compliance of audits.
Ansible is a powerful IT automation tool that you
can learn quickly.
It's simple enough for everyone in IT,
yet powerful enough to automate
even the most complex deployments.
We then looked through some use cases such as setting
up a complex infrastructure that spans across public
and private cloud and hundreds of VMs using Ansible.
With Ansible, you could proition VMs on public clouds,
like Amazon, and proition VMs on private cloud,
in a private cloud setup like VMware based infrastructure,
and move on to configuring applications on those
and setting up communications between them, et cetera.
We also discussed how to get started with Ansible.
The different options of installing Ansible
on a Linux system.
Remember, Ansible control machine can only be Linux
as of now.
However, Windows machines can be a target
for automation with Ansible.
So Ansible do support Windows as target servers.
We also looked at inventory files and how they're defined.
We looked at the inventory file parameters such as
Ansible Connection, Ansible user, Ansible password,
et cetera. And why and where they're used.
We went through a number of Ansible modules
available out of the box
and how to read documentation and how to use them.
For example, we looked at some
of the system modules available,
such as user group, post name, et cetera.
We looked at some of the command modules,
such as command shell script,
and we also looked at some of the file-related modules,
and some of the database-related modules,
and cloud related modules such as Amazon, Docker,
Google, Open Stack, VMware, et cetera.
And then we also looked at some of the Windows modules,
such as wind copy, wind command, et cetera.
These are just very few of the actual modules available.
There are lots and lots more of built-in,
out of the box modules available that ships with Ansible.
We also looked at variables
and how to use them in playbooks.
In this course, we will look more
at separating variables into separate files
and we'll practice some Ginga to templating,
et cetera in more depth.
We also learned conditionals, such as the when directive,
and how we can execute tasks based on a specific condition.
And finally, we practiced loops.
So we used loop to automate the installation
of a list of packages, using a single task
and the width items directive.
So we've just recapped whatever we learned
in the previous course, and we will now move on
to learning new and advanced concepts in Ansible.


=== Web Application ===


--- A Quick Note! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== File Separation ===


--- Lab Troubleshooting Guide ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Roles ===


--- Setup Environment ---

(typewriter keys clanking)
-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth,
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we will be looking
at how to set up an environment for developing with Ansible.
In the previous course, we've seen
how to install Ansible on a system,
but we could really use one or two additional systems
to get a better understanding
of how it works in the real world.
It is not really necessary to set up an environment
if you're not in a position to do so.
You can still practice with the coding exercises
that accompanies this course.
But if you would like to follow along
in your own environment, you are free to do so.
There are multiple ways to set up such an environment.
If you can spin up few VMs in your lab, that works.
Or if you want to do it all on your laptop,
use some kind of virtualization software
like VirtualBox or VMware Workstation to spin up some VMs.
Or use something like Docker, which is my preferred method.
Or if you have worked with Vagrant, that works too.
At the end of the day, what we really need
is a control system where we will be able to install Ansible
and few target systems
that will be targets of Ansible Playbooks.
We'll be doing things like installing
and configuring databases, web servers, et cetera.
on the target systems.
I will now demo two of these approaches.
One is using Oracle Virtual Box,
and the other is basically an extra,
which is using Docker, which is my favorite method.
I will be using the Oracle Virtual Box based setup
throughout this course for all the demos,
as I believe most students
will be able to relate to this straightforward method,
and it's really easy to set up,
and you really don't have to know other tools,
like Docker or Vagrant.


=== Asynchronous Actions ===


--- Demo - Setup Environment ---

-: Hello and welcome to this demo.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
I'm going to demonstrate how to set up
an Ansible environment so that we can
practice developing Ansible playbooks.
So our plan is to set up a few VMs,
one of which will act as an Ansible controller,
and two others will act as the target servers
that Ansible controller will target
to make configuration changes,
install applications, et cetera.
So let's get right to it.
(clears throat)
In this demo, I'm going to demonstrate how to set up
an environment using Oracle VirtualBox.
So there are multiple ways of, for us to do this.
We can either do it using VMware Workstation
or we can just pin up VMs,
if you have access to VMs in your lab environment.
Or another way to do it is using Oracle VirtualBox.
So Oracle VirtualBox, for those of you who are new,
if you go to VirtualBox.org
you'll get to this website.
So Oracle VirtualBox is a free virtualization software
that is available for use at home as well as for enterprise.
So it's supports Windows and Linux environment
and it's basically free,
so it's really easy to work with.
So if you download the Oracle latest version
of the Oracle VirtualBox
that you can see right here and install it.
Once you install and power it up
you should get to this interface.
So now you have Oracle VirtualBox installed
and I've actually provisioned a few VMs.
I have a controller VM and two target servers.
So what I did here is first I just went online
and searched for an image, a VirtualBox image
and I downloaded a WM 64-bit operating system and image.
And all I did was just create a new virtual machine
using that image.
(clears throat)
So if you search online
you'll find a lot of images freely available.
Now what I've used is this right here.
So if you go to osboxes.org/VM,
you'll find this images available here.
So I've used the VM 8.6 Jesse image
and it has about 32 and 64 bits.
So I've chosen the 64-bit version
and I've downloaded this image to my local system.
You can see the username and password,
the information right here.
So keep a note of that.
Once you download this particular image,
go to your Oracle VM VirtualBox Manager,
click on new to create a new system.
The first thing I did
is to create the Ansible controller system.
So I did a Ansible controller.
Just gonna to mark it as number two.
The type is Linux and version is going to be Debian.
So I'm gonna select Debian 64-bit
because that's the image I downloaded.
The memory size could be one GB, so that's fine.
And right here, this is where we select
the file that we downloaded.
So we're gonna select, 'Use an existing virtual disk',
well, virtual hard disk file, then click on 'browse'
and then point to the file that you just downloaded.
So I have it under downloads, Debian_8.6-VD-64 bit
and under the 64-bit folder.
And I have this .VDI file.
So click on that and click on 'Create'.
And that should create this particular VM right here.
The VM that you deploy, make sure,
it should have a network or internet access.
Because once you power it on
you're going to install Ansible on it.
And that requires the host
to communicate to the internet
and pull down the Ansible packages required.
So you're going to have to make sure
that you set the right networking.
So I'm gonna go into settings and network
and I'm going to select a bridge adapter
and I'm going to bridge to my wireless router.
That way it gets to access the external network.
Click 'OK', and then I'm just going to power it on.
So it's just powering up now.
(clicking mouse repeatedly)
Going to use the network password,
which is always boxes.org.
Okay, so I'm in.
Now I'm going to open a terminal,
just to check the IP address.
So I'm gonna do terminal and ifconfig.
Okay, need to switch to root.
(typing)
Wrong password.
(typing)
I'm going to do ifconfig to get the IP address.
So that's the IP address.
So I can use that to SSH.
Okay, so I now have a basic Linux system.
What I want to do is
before I install Ansible on it
the next step is to install Ansible on it.
But before that, I could actually clone this system
to get two other target servers.
Or, since I'm not doing any of much customization
I could just create another two target servers
just like how we created this controller.
So I'm just gonna go ahead.
(typing)
I'll now follow instructions
on the Ansible documentation site to get Ansible installed.
So if you go to docs.ansible.com and the installation page
under Debian get to, you get to see this information
about how to install Ansible.
So the first step is to add the following line
to etc apt sources.list.
So I'm going to copy that.
(typing)
Okay, so instead of using
(typing)
this terminal,
I'm going to SSH in using PuTTY
because that's a lot easier.
So it's 192 168 1.14,
and this is my control two.
(typing)
So I'm going to create a new SSH connection.
(mouse clicks)
(typing)
And it's going to be SSH.
I'm now going to follow the instructions here.
So etc apt sources.list,
(typing)
(computer chimes)
and I'm going to add that new line in there
and then
(typing)
add the key.
(typing)
Then let's do apt-get update.
So the packages list are updated
and then we install Ansible.
(typing)
Okay, so I have now installed Ansible,
if I type in Ansible it should give me the help page.
And so we are all set.
Okay, so we've actually deployed a system,
installed Ansible on it.
So we are good.
We follow the same procedure to install two more servers,
which will be our target servers,
in this case target server one and target server two.
And then we're going to target those servers
for all our operations or Ansible playbooks in the future.
Now I'd be using these servers for different purposes.
For example, in a scenario where I want to deploy
the same application across multiple different servers
I'd use those servers for that purpose.
Or, if I wanted to demonstrate
deploying a distributed application,
which has a web part on one server,
database on another servers,
then I would use these servers for that purpose too.
For example, I'm going to use server one
for the web and then server two for the database.
So this kind of setup will help us work
with different scenarios like that.
If you're running multiple different playbooks
against these target servers,
you might also want to be able to reset these servers
to an initial state before you run your second,
or before you run your second playbook.
So what I have planned to do
is to use snapshots for that purpose.
So you can take a snapshot
of the servers whenever you want
by going into the snapshots tab right here,
in the top right corner.
So if you click on snapshots
you'll be able to see the state, the current state
of that server and you'll be able to take a snapshot
of the server at any point in time.
What this helps you to do is initially,
right after you deploy the server
and you're ready to run a playbook against it,
take a snapshot,
and I've called it as the system ready snapshot.
That's the initial state.
Now I could make any changes to that server
and when I'm done with all my testing,
to revert it back I could simply right click that,
the system ready state and say restore snapshot.
Obviously you'd have to power off the server to do that.
So that will help me bring back the servers
to its original state every time
I run a playbook against it and change its configuration.
Okay, so as I said before,
I have already deployed two target servers
called Target Server One and Target Server Two,
just to check the connectivity
between the Ansible controller and the target servers.
I'm going to run a quick ad hoc command.
I'm going to run a quick Ansible ad hoc command.
So first I'm going to find out the IP address for these.
So I have, so I've already added these target servers
to my SSH client.
So I have my target one server as 192 168 1.10 IP address.
And I have the target two server as 192 168 1.13.
So what I'm going to do is,
in the new controller that I just created
I'm going to create a new inventory file.
So I'm just going to say inventory.txt.
I'm gonna add my target server, target one
and it's going to have Ansible_host= 192.168.1.10
(typing)
and it's going to have a password called sshpass.
And that is going to be password.
(typing)
And similarly, I have target two and the IP address
is going to be 192 168.1.13
(typing)
and the password is going to be Passw0rd
with a capital P and a zero in it.
And this is the password that I reset to those servers.
After I deploy the servers, I actually reset the password.
So this is the new password.
Okay, so I now have my inventory file.
Now I could just do Ansible ad hoc command.
So that's going to be Ansible
and then my target server name.
So it is target one.
I'll try with one server first and then the module.
So I just want to do a ping.
So I give a -M for the module
and I would say Ping is the module that I want to run.
All that it does is it just tries
to establish a connectivity to the target server.
And then I also wanna specify my inventory file.
So I'd say -I and then the name of the inventory file.
When I run that it comes back
with this error message saying, 'using an SSH password
instead of a key is not possible
because host key checking is enabled
and sshpass does not support this'.
So we basically, so this is a security feature
that comes out of the box with Ansible.
You either need to modify your Ansible configuration file
to accept, to disable host key checking
or you need to manually add the host key
into your list of known hosts.
So in this case I'm just going to modify
the Ansible configuration file.
So that is located at etc ansible ansible.cfg
and I'm just gonna search for key.
And right here you can see
host key checking is false as the command reads,
uncommand this to disable SSH key host checking.
I will basically, by default host key checking
is set to true.
So I'm just going to uncommand it
so that it sets it to false
and that way it doesn't check for the host key.
I wasn't trying to establish a connectivity to that host.
So I'll save that and go back.
I run that Ansible command once again
and as you can see, it's a success.
So we do a ping and then the target server replies
with a pong and that basically means
that it's established a connectivity to the target server.
I will now test the second target server,
which is target two.
And as you can see, that's successful as well.
If you want to try both servers at the same time,
you could simply remove two and replace it with a star.
So target star, this is basically a pattern,
wildcard pattern used by Ansible.
And we've looked at this a little bit
in the previous course.
So that's, this is one way,
this way it tries to establish a connectivity
to both the servers.
And you could also do the same
by creating a group in the inventory file
and putting both the hosts under a group.
Well, so we've created, deployed three servers.
We've installed Ansible on one of the controlled servers
and we have established connectivity
between our controller server
and the two target servers successfully using a password.
So we are all set with our environment
and we can now go ahead
and use our playbooks against these servers.
So thank you so much
and let's go ahead with the remainder of the course.


=== Strategy ===


--- Extras - Demo - Setup Environment with Docker ---

-: Hello and welcome to this demo.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we are learning advanced Ansible concepts.
In this demo, we're going to see how to use Docker
to set up an Ansible environment
to play around with and to practice Ansible playbooks.
Our goal is to set up an environment
so that Ansible can execute playbooks
on multiple different target systems,
and to see how those target systems are configured
and applications and databases are installed
and configured on those target systems.
Docker makes it really easy for us.
So this is basically an extra piece of demo.
This is only for those who are interested
in learning this method using Docker.
So feel free to skip this lecture
if you have not worked with Docker.
So you require a basic understanding of Docker.
This is how we're going to set up the environment.
All we need is a single virtual machine.
You don't need multiple virtual machines
because with Docker, we're just going
to power up multiple Docker containers
and they will act as the target servers for Ansible.
So we need one virtual machine
with Ansible obviously, Ansible installed in it
and then with Docker installed in it.
So we need a system with Docker installed in it.
And what we're going to do
is we're going to power up
multiple different Docker containers,
which will have basically basic Ubuntu Docker images
with probably SSH enabled.
So we will power up multiple different Docker containers
and these Docker containers
will be associated to Docker's internal network.
And so the systems will get an internal IP address
in the range by default that is 172.17.0 range.
So once we have this,
we are going to target our Ansible playbooks
to the systems at these IP addresses.
Okay, so let's take a quick look at a demo.
So I have this system.
So I have this SSH client right here
and I have a Docker host.
So I have Docker already installed on it.
If I type Docker, I will be able to see the help command.
So that's good.
And so if you do not have Docker installed,
go to the Docker installation documentation website
and look for the installation instructions
for Community Edition for the system
that you're trying to get Docker installed.
So I have this right now.
I'm just going to do Docker ps.
I do not have any containers running at the moment.
I also have Ansible running.
So that's good.
Okay, so first, what I need to do
is I need power up some Docker containers.
So if you go to Docker Hub,
you will see there are thousands of Docker images.
So feel free to use whichever you like.
So I'm currently going to use a custom Docker container
that I created
that's in my repository at M. Mumshad.
And it's Ubuntu and I've enabled SSH on it.
So Ubuntu SSH enabled is what I called the image.
And I'm just going to run it
with -it and -d to run it in the background,
to run it in the background.
So this option basically runs this container as a daemon.
Oops.
So the options need to be
after the run command.
Okay, so that's started.
I'm going to run, if I do a Docker ps now,
I will be able to see that container running.
So this is my first container.
To see the IP address of that container,
I could do Docker inspect
and type in the container ID,
the first two letters, which is 33.
It's 33 that you see here.
And I can see that the IP address for this is
172.17.0.2.
That's the IP address.
So I'm going to power up a few more.
So I'm going to run the same Docker run command
a few more times, two more times.
And then I do a Docker ps and I can see
that there are three instances running right now.
Okay, so I'm going to look at the IP for the other two.
So Docker inspect on four.
This is 17.0.3.
And
(keyboard typing)
35.
This is 17.0.4.
So I have two, three and four.
Okay, so I have the IP addresses.
I'm now going to create an inventory file.
This is an Ansible inventory file.
And I'm going to call them as target servers,
so target one Ansible_host.
The IP for that is 172.17.0.2.
And the password that I have set for that
is Password with a capital P and a zero.
Similarly, I'm going to add the second host.
172.17.0.3.
And Ansible SSH pass
is password.
And same way I'm going to do target three.
0.4.
SSH pass,
(indistinct) password.
And that's it.
I'm now going to run a Ansible
and a ping command.
So I'm going to do Ansible target one -m ping.
That's for the ping module,
and my inventory file is inventory.txt.
Okay, so that's successful.
I'm going to ping all of them at once now.
So I put a star
and there you go.
So I have three servers
and they've all responded to ping.
So I basically have, within a single VM,
I have a Docker and I have three Docker containers
and I'm able to establish connectivity
to those containers using my inventory file in Ansible.
So that's pretty easy and straightforward.
This way, I can power up hundreds
of really lightweight Docker containers,
and it's really, really easy
to get rid of them when I don't want.
I can easily power on new VMs
or new containers for new playbooks.
So I really don't have to worry
about resetting my environment
or anything like that.
So this is my preferred way
of working with Ansible playbooks.
It's really easy to set up
and it's really easy to work with.
So obviously, you can see the advantages
of Docker container over the virtual machines
that you have to either power up with VMware Workstation
or Oracle VirtualBox.
So this makes it really, really easy.
So yep, that's about it.
Thanks for your time
and let's go ahead to the remaining lectures
in this course.


=== Error Handling ===


--- Docker Image - ubuntu-ssh-enabled ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Templating - Jinja2 ===


--- Coding Exercises ---

-: Hello. And welcome to this demo.
In this demo, I would like to show how to work
with the coding exercises
that accompany this course in Udemy.
So every time you finish a lecture
or a demo that accompany the lecture,
you will automatically be taken
to the coding exercises section.
The coding exercises section in Udemy helps
in practicing what you learned in the video lectures.
So if you look at this,
this is a sample of one of the coding exercises section.
The coding exercises page contains three areas.
The first one here at the top is your question
or the challenge that you are asked to solve.
You will be given a brief introduction
and a task to complete.
Below that, you will find two sections.
On the left, you have a list of files to work with,
and on the right, is the actual contents of the file.
Now, every coding exercise has a file
by default called as Exercise.rb.
This is a a file that contains a simple banner
and this is not the file that you have to work with.
So do not modify this file or write your solution here.
It is the other files that you have to work with.
In this case, there are two other files
called inventory and playbook.
The Inventory is the inventory file for Ansible
and Playbook.yaml is the Ansible's playbook file.
Now, if you look at the task given here,
you're asked to update the playbook
with the information about the target server.
In this case, I need to update DBN score server
with DBN web server.
So I'm going to copy that and paste it here to update that.
And then here at the bottom right,
you will have a button for checking the solutions.
So when you click on that,
your task will be validated.
And as you can see, it is correct.
So it shows you a correct message.
In case you typed it wrong, for some reason,
you made a typo in your code or some kind of error,
and when you click on Check Solution,
you will be given an appropriate error message.
Some of the exercises push you
beyond what you learned in the lecture.
So some coding exercises require you to refer
to some documentation and do a little bit of research
to find out the right solution.
So in such cases, you'll be given a documentation link,
link to the documentation page.
By clicking on the link, you will be taken
to a documentation page for that particular module
and you can find additional help and examples there.
So utilize those instructions to complete your task.
And in case you're not able to figure out,
always feel free to raise a question.
So click on the Browse Q&amp;A.
You might be able to see some questions
raised by previous students here.
If not, feel free to ask a question.
And in case you're having trouble with your playbook,
copy and paste your playbook,
so we can refer to that when replying.
Worst case, if you're unable to figure out a solution,
you will also find an answer key that is available here.
Clicking on the link will take you to a code repository
where you will find solutions for these questions.
So, that's it for now.
Thank you.


=== Lookups ===


--- Web Application ---

(typewriter typing)
Instructor: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we're learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we will be talking
about a basic web application.
This lecture has nothing to do with Ansible itself.
It's basically an extra for those who have absolutely
no experience working with web servers.
We're going to get a basic understanding
of what a really really basic web application looks like.
We will be using this as a use case to deploy servers
and systems in the remainder of this course.
So it is important to understand
at least one real life use case
and it's important that we are all on the same page.
If you are already familiar with web applications,
feel free to skip this lecture.
Otherwise, stay and refresh your memory.
So we will be setting up a really really
simple web application using Python flask application
and MySQL database.
The source code of this application is available
on my GitHub page.
First, we are going to take a look
at how the application is set up.
I will break it down into six steps.
We have multiple ways to deploy the application.
First, we are going to see an all in one setup
where we have all the components of the application
on the same server.
So first, we identify a server then we install Python
and other Python dependencies in it.
This is because our web application is based in Python.
We then install MySQL database, configure it
and start the service, followed by installing flask
which is what our web application will be based on.
And then we will write the source code, if it doesn't
already exist, or we copied the source code over,
or download it from a source of repository like GitHub.
And finally, run the web server, and this will get us
to a point where we'll have
a fully functional basic web application ready to work with.
In the remaining section of this course, we will use this
as a use case to write Ansible playbooks
and deploy on one or multiple servers
in a monolithic or a distributed architecture.


=== Vault ===


--- Demo - Web Application ---

-: Hello, and welcome to this demo.
In this demo,
we are going to demonstrate how to deploy
a simple web application from scratch using a manual method.
So, this is so we know what we are trying to automate.
I would recommend anyone to manually
complete the steps once
so we know exactly the steps involved
in what we are automating.
So these are the steps involved
in deploying the web application.
First, identify the web server
that we are going to deploy the application on
and then install the Python dependencies.
Install and configure MySQL server
and start the services.
Install Flask,
download the source code and then run the application.
So, we will try to do this once manually on a server.
So the first step is to identify the server.
So, I have Oracle VirtualBox
and have a Ansible controller and two target servers.
So, I'm just going to try and deploy the web application
on the target server one manually.
So this is the target server one
that I'm going to install on.
I'm going to identify the IP address of the server
and then I'm going to SSH into that server.
So, the next step is to install Python dependencies.
So, I have the simple web application on my GitHub page
and I have all the instructions detailed here.
So, I'm gonna follow this one by one.
So, the first step is to install Python dependencies.
So, I run the apt-get install command to do that
and then I'm going to install the database,
the MySQL server and MySQL client packages.
Okay, and while that's installing MySQL,
it'll asks for the root password.
So, I'm going to enter a root password for the MySQL server.
Remember that this password will be used later
during application configuration
to connect to the application database.
Okay, so next is to start the MySQL service.
So, service MySQL starts,
starts the MySQL service,
and I can see that verify that it's running.
I'm now going to connect to the MySQL database.
And then I'm going to create a new database
called employee_db.
I'm going to create a database user
that I can use to connect to the database.
I'm going to grant permissions to that,
for that user in the database.
And then I'm gonna change to that database using use.
And then I'm gonna create a table,
an empty table called employees into that database.
I will then add one line of test data into it.
So, that's about the database configurations.
So, the database is now ready.
I will now go ahead and install the Python dependencies
using PIP install.
So Flask is the first Python package that I need to install
followed by Flask-MySQL
which is used by Flask
to connect to the MySQL database.
So, basically I'm done with the dependencies.
The next step is to copy over the code, the source code.
So, I'm going to copy the source code
from the app.py on my Github page
and I'm going to put that in an app.py file,
and then I run the...
I start the web server using the Python app.py command.
So, this web server is now running at the 5,000 port.
So, it's currently running on 127.0.0.1
So, I'm not going to be able to access it
using its IP address because it's the loop back address
that it's running on.
So, I'll have to change that.
So, I will run it with a different command.
I will run it with a Flask command.
The Flask command will allow me to expose the server
on a different IP.
So, I set an environment variable
called flask_app to app.py.
And then I run the Flask application with a host parameter.
That way I will be able to access...
That way, the server will run on 0.0.0
and this way, I will be able to access the web webpage.
So as you can see,
I can now access the web server from that webpage.
If you look at the code
there are a few URLs that you can test.
For example, if you go to /how_are_you
It's going to come back with a message saying,
"I'm good, how about you?"
And if you try the URL read from database,
it's actually going to read a value from the database.
So, that basically test the database connectivity for us.
So, that's it.
That's the basic simple web application.
Let's go ahead and let's now try to automate this deployment
using Ansible playbooks.


=== Dynamic Inventory ===


--- WebApp Installation Instructions on Centos 7 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Custom Modules ===


--- Playbook - Web Application ---

(keyboard clicking)
-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we are learning Advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture we'll be creating a playbook
to deploy the web application
that we manually created in the previous section.
So we start with creating an inventory file and a playbook.
The inventory file has information about our target server.
In this case, we would like to call it DB and web server.
This is because our application
is running in a monolithic architecture
where both our database and our web part of the application
are residing on the same server.
The password and IP are given.
Then we lay out the structure of our playbook.
We will start with a single play
to deploy the web application and list all tasks
we know needs to be done to get this working.
We can get away with a single play
as our application is going to be hosted on a single server.
We will talk about a better format in the upcoming modules.


=== Plugins ===


--- Demo - Developing Playbook for Simple Web Application ---

-: Hello, and welcome to this demo
in this demo we're going to look at how to
automate the deployment of the web application
using Ansible playbook.
So first I'm going to identify the server
then I'm going to test this on
so I'm going to shut down the server that I
already deployed the application on and I'm going
to reset the state by restoring to the previous
restore point
so I'm going to select system ready and
restore snapshot, and click on restore
and this is going to
uh,
restore the server to a previous state
I'm now going to power the server up
um,
so this is my IDE that I'm going to use for
developing Ansible playbooks
um, so you can basically use any IDE, that of
your preference.
I use um, python or rubymine
or anything that supports YAML format
So python is a free um, community edition of
Python is actually free and you can actually
use that
or any other free IDE's that are available out there
can be used.
So, I have this IDE on my windows system and
the files are to be created on the target
Ansible controller Linux system.
And so first I've just going to uh, created a
folder
called demo
and I will have the files created inside this
so first I'm going to create an imagery file
called imagery and
I'm going to define the imagery of my Ansible project
so the two target servers.
so instead of target I'm just going to name them
DB underscore, and DB web server one
and DB web server two
Um, the Ansible host IP um,
I'm going to put in the IP of the first server
uh, target server
and the password
Temporarily I'm going to create and entry for
the second server, and use the new IP address for
that server.
Then I'm going to create a new playbook
I'm going to name it playbook.YAML
and now I'm going to create a play
I'm going to call the play a web application
I'm going to target the host DB and web server one
and DB and web server two
so there are multiple ways of doing that
you can either do it like this or you can
remove the second one and put a star
to use a pattern, or wild card
Or another option is to create a group
and put the two servers under that group and
use the group name.
So any of these 3 options work.
I'm just going to restore that to my original
state
and I'm just going to use the web server names.
Okay. And then I'm going to create a task
under it , um
so my first task is just going to be a test
so I'm just going to, uh, use the ping module
to try a ping.
So what I can do is, uh, on the Ansible
controller, um, system I'm going to create a
directory for the
um, Ansible project, I will call it
web deployment
and inside that I'm going to create an imagery file
and a playbook file.
So I'm going to copy the contents of the imagery file
and put it in there.
And I'm going to copy to contents of playbook
and add it to the playbook.
I will show you a better way to , um,
get around this.
So i don't have to , um
I won't have to copy and paste every time.
So if you go to tools and deployment
you'll find that
you can add a deployment configuration where
the files, your files from windows will be
automatically be transferred to the Linux server
so I'm going create a new deployment server
and I'm going to provide the IP of my
Ansible controller.
Um, I will give it the IP address
of the Ansible controller system
and the credentials to connect to it
uh, after entering the password I will test
the connectivity so that its successfully
connected.
And all I'm going to do is create a mapping that
when the local folder, which is called demo
and I will map it to the remote folder
and root
the new, uh, I will target the new photo
I created on the Ansible system
so this way, every file I create here
will automatically be transferred, every change
I make will automatically be transferred to this
target system.
So I'm just going to
run a test
I'm just going to make a small change
and I have to turn on the
automatic upload so that
every time I make a change it, uh, pushes it over
so that's good, I'm able to see the change.
So, um, its going to be very easy going forward
so I'm going to run the Ansible play book.
With the playbook and the imagery file I can
see that, it is able to ping successfully
that means the connectivity is uh, established
successfully.
Okay, so uh, and now I'm going to modify
my first task.
I'm going to
automate my first task which is
installation of the python dependencies
so in the manual process I used APT get so
here I'm going to use the APT module
in Ansible to install the dependencies.
So the first dependency is python
so that's going to be the name of the APT package
and the state is going to be installed
means uh, so APT is going to install the python
dependency.
And I also have a few other packages, uh
dependencies to be installed. So what I could do
is I could use a loop here and then
so I use the word items directive and um
I will add, uh, all the required packages as
a list.
And so I will run the APT module in a loop
so instead of python,
um, I'm going to add python as well in the list
and instead of that, I will use item
so that it replaces, with each value in the
list, every time
it iterates the loop.
So this way I get to all the, uh
dependencies installed.
The next step is to install and configure database
so there too I'm using the APT get, uh,
command, so I will just copy
this task
so I will create a new task
and I'll just replace the list
of packages to install.
I'll first update the name and I'll just replace
the list of packages to install
in this case my SQL server and
uh, my SQL client.
The next step is to start the database service.
So I will use the service module
so I'm going to crate a new task and call it
start uh,
my SQL service
and the service name is going to be MySQL
and the state is going to be "Started"
and I will also set "enable" to yes this way
when the server restarts
the service will automatically be started.
So the next step is create database
and database users
so we have the MySQL modules for that.
So the first task is to create an application
database.
I'm going to use the MYSQL underscore DB module
the name of that database is going to be
Employee underscore DB
and the state is going to be "present"
The next step is to create a database user
I will use the MySQL underscore user module
to create a new user.
If you need more information about any module
or what parameters it accepts
you could always refer the module documentation
under the module index page on
Ansible documentation website.
So, under MySQL you can see that you have
a MySQL module
MySQL underscore user module
and these are the parameters that it accepts.
So I'm just going to use that here.
I'm just going to copy and paste that and
replace the values with the values from
the command. I know that name its supposed to be
DB underscore user, the password is supposed to
be this.
And,
I will leave the permissions to the default.
So I'll skip the insert data step, and I'll go
ahead with the next one which is installing the
Python dependencies.
So I will use the pit module to install the
python flask, uh, dependencies.
There's a typo, its supposed to be
flask and not flash.
And I'm going to, uh, use the pit module.
The name of the module is going to be "Flask"
but since I have two modules to install
I'll use a loop.
Um, so I'm going to use both items and I'm
going to specify the python modules I need installed.
So flask and flask MySQL.
Then use the item, uh, variable under loop
and the state, uh should be "present".
The next, uh, step is to copy the app.py
which is my source code to the target server.
So, I need the source code here, uh, for now
so that I can copy it over.
So I'm just going to create a new file for
uh, the application source code
and I'm going to copy the source code of the
application from my get help
uh repository error
so this uh, by doing this I'm basically creating
a local copy of the application source.
Another way to do this would be to use the
get help module to download the application
directly from get help.
But for now I'm just going to copy the source code over.
So I'll create a new task to copy the source code
over, to the target server.
And I will use the copy module for that.
So the source is going to be App.py and
destination is going to be, forward slash Apt
forward slash app dot PY.
So that's where I'd like the source code to
go.
So the next step is start the web server.
So I'm going to create a new
task to start the web server.
I'm going to copy over the command.
The path is not correct is should be Apt App dot PY
but I'll get that fixed later.
So I have something to add, a NoHop
and an ampersand to run the task in the background.
So even when Ansible exits, the website
continues to run.
So, um, I'm going to kick off the Ansible playbook
and as you can see its established connectivity
to the target servers.
It's installed all the required dependencies..
Installed MySQL database
Uh, started the server.
Um, I'm going to, uh,
the browser and try and access the webpage.
And there I can see that, the webpage is up.
Um, I've actually changed the source code.
Uh, the source of the application to
forward slash APT forward slash APP dot PY
um, so both the servers are up and I'm able to
access the web service.
Um so that's the end of this demo.
Going forward we will see how to make this
playbook better
how to improve this Ansible project using roles
and using host variables.
By separating, uh,
variables to separate files etc.
Um, thank you.

--- Update: apt module deprecations ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- File Separation ---

-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth and we are learning
Advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we'll be talking about file separation.
So far we've been defining variables
in the same inventory file.
However, this is not a best practice.
It is better to define this
in a separate file for that server.
To do this, first create a host_vars directory
next to the playbook,
and then create a file with the same name
as that of the server, which in this case is DB_
and _webserver.yaml.
Then we move the variables and their values
from the inventory file into this new file.
Remember to remove the equal sign
and change it to a semicolon followed by a space.
This is because this new file is in YAML format.
You don't need any further configuration.
When Ansible Playbook is executed,
Ansible automatically reads the values
from this file and associates them with the host.
So it's important to name the file
with the same name as that of the server.
And also, it's important to name the folder host_vars,
because that's the folder that Ansible looks at
to find out whether there is a file,
whether there's a variable file for that particular server.
For host variables
the folder must be named host_vars,
and group variables must be named group_vars.
And you could have a file for each host inside this folder,
as we have just seen.
Going forward we'll stick to such best practices
in our playbooks.
The next thing to learn is include statements.
In the previous course,
we have covered some basics of roles and include statements.
We're going to go over these real quick.
In our case, we have a playbook with two sets of tasks:
one to install and configure the database,
and the other is to install and configure the web server.
What if we need to reuse these tasks
in different playbooks where the requirement may be to
only install database or to only install the web server?
So we divide these tasks into two sets.
We first create two files under a folder called tasks,
naming them deploy_db.yaml,
and deploy_web.yaml.
And we moved the DB task
into the first one and the web task into the second one.
Once we're done with that, we add the include statements
under task in our playbook to include the task
from these external files.

--- Demo - File Separation ---

-: Hello and welcome to this demo.
In this demo, we are going to improvise
on the playbook that we developed earlier.
What we are going to do is we're going to break up
the playbook that we developed in the last demo.
We're going to separate out some of the variables
to a separate file for host variables
and then we're going to take out the task
and put them to a separate file for task
and just, you know, reorganize our playbook
and restructure it so it looks more modular.
Okay, so now I'm going to reset my environment.
So here I'm going to restore snapshots
for both of my servers and so that I can redeploy
the application on them so they're reset.
I'm now back to my playbook and the first thing
that I'm going to do is I'm going to move the variables out.
So if you look here,
I have some information in the playbook that are hard coded
such as the employee DB, which is the database name
and then I also have the database user, user password
et cetera, kind of hard coded into this playbook.
Now, we don't want this to be here because this can change
and so we don't want, when it needs to be changed,
we don't want the user to go in into the playbook
and look for this information and change.
Instead if the variables were in a separate file on its own,
it'll be easy to modify that later.
So the first thing that we're gonna do is
we're just going to bring out the variables
to a vars right here
in the play, and later on we'll move it out.
So for now, we're just going to look for the information.
So right there we have employee DB,
which is the database name.
So I'm gonna create a new entry, a new variable for that.
I will call it DB underscore name
and I'll copy the value over there.
And then I'm going to use the variable name
and replace the variable name here instead
of the actual database name.
Similarly, I'm going to move out a few more things
such as the user information.
So I'm gonna move the, I'm gonna create a new variable
called DB user and move the value there.
And I'm gonna replace it with the variable name here.
And always remember when you do it this way,
you need the double codes around it.
Then the same with the password.
So move the db database password out
and use the variable and replace the variable right here.
So for now these are the variables that I'd like to move out
and I'm okay with any other information lying around
in the playbook.
So in order to separate this out into a different file,
what I need to do is I will take that information out.
I will create a new folder called host underscore vars
and remember it has to be host underscore vars.
And under the host vars,
I'm going to create one file for each server.
So host vars should always have a file for each server.
I'm gonna create one file for db and web server.
Make sure I name it with dot YAML.
And similarly, I'm going to create another file
for DBN Web Server two.
So I have two files now
and I'm going to cut the information out from here
and make sure to remove the vars directive
and I'll paste it in the new files.
Now, if I want this information to be available
for both the servers, then I must make sure
that I have two separate host var file for each server.
Then I must make sure that I have the information
in both the files.
So these variables will only be available
to that particular server.
Now this makes sense if we were to have, let's say,
different database names and different database users
and passwords for different servers.
So in that case, this will help
because we have it defined separately in separate files
but for instance, in this case, we know
that it's going to be the same on all servers.
So another approach to do this is to use groups
and group variables.
So what we could do is if we know
for sure that the variable values are going to
be the same on both of the servers,
so we could create a new group called DBN web servers
and the underlying servers are now part of that group.
Now we could create a new folder called group wars
and have a new file created under the group wars
for that particular group, in this case DBN web servers
and make sure it's a YAML file.
And now we'll move the variables out into that group.
Okay, now we can get rid of the host vars altogether.
Now all the servers under that group
will have access to these variables.
Now all the servers under that group
all will be associated with these variables.
So now we are good with that.
Next we're going to move the tasks out.
So I'm gonna create a new task folder
and under the task folder, I'm going to create two files.
One is for the database
so that'll be deployed underscore DB dot YAML.
And then I'm going to take all the database related tasks
in this case, installing my SQL database
starting my SQL service, creating application database
and database user.
And I'm gonna cut that and move that into this.
Make sure that the alignment is right.
They should all be on the same line,
they should be aligned together.
Sometimes when you copy or cut and paste,
your alignment may, the file may go out of alignment.
So make sure they're aligned correctly.
And now I'm gonna create a new file called
deploy underscore web dot YAML
that I'm gonna take all the web server tasks
and move it there.
Now I'm gonna go back to my master playbook
and I'm just going to include those tasks here
by using the include directive.
So I'll say include, and then the file,
the path to that, those two files.
Okay, so we are done with the playbook.
So we now have variables moved into group variable files
and we have tasks moved into separate task files.
We can reuse these task files anywhere else
in our project as required.
Okay, so I'm now going to run the playbook again.
I'll make sure that all the changes were moved here.
And I can see that the playbook starts,
it establishes connectivity successfully.
We'll just wait for the dependencies to get installed.
Okay, so the web server dependencies are installed
the application database is installed,
database is installed.
The source code copied over and the web server is started.
Okay, so that's the end of the demo.
So go ahead and practice some of it on your own
in the coding exercises section.

--- Roles ---

-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we are learning Advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we'll be talking about roles.
Now that we have worked with includes and variables,
developing a role should be easy for us.
Roles are the recommended way
of developing a playbook in Ansible.
Roles help us organize our project in a standard structure,
we use roles within our project,
and share our work with the open community
through GitHub or Ansible Galaxy.
So, what exactly does organize mean?
When you create a role,
it automatically creates this folder structure for you
that contains a set of folders like
tasks, handlers, VARs, defaults, et cetera
and the README file is initialized automatically.
This will help in creating the role as per best practice.
Once roles are created,
it is easy to use them in any part of your playbook.
Simply use the roles directive to assign a role to a server.
When you do this, Ansible automatically loads all the tasks
from the task folder,
all the variables from the variables folder,
and defaults from the default folder
and makes them available to the playbook.
You don't have to use any include commands
in the main playbook if you're using roles.
This way, our main playbook looks very, very simple
and readable
and we can reuse the same role
in different parts of the playbook the same way.
With Ansible Galaxy, these roles can be shared
and others can import and reuse them with great ease.
There are thousands of roles already available
on Ansible Galaxy
and it's a good idea to check for an existing role
before starting to develop one on your own.
What we have so far
are the tasks separated into two task files
called Deploy DB and Deploy Web.
What we really want to be doing
is to use roles so our work becomes reusable.
Creating two separate roles for DB and Web
instead of a single one will help us modularize our work
and will help us use each of these
for different purposes in the future.
If somebody only wanted to deploy a DB server
or a web server,
then this design will help us reuse our work
for different purposes.
So, we create two separate roles
called my SQL DB and Flask Web
using the Ansible Galaxy init command.
Now, remember, we don't necessarily have to use
the Ansible Galaxy init command,
we could simply create the folder structure ourself.
Ansible Galaxy Command simply makes it easy for us
and automatically creates the required structure.
Once the rules are created and we've added all the tasks,
it's really easy to integrate the rules into our playbook,
instead of tasks, this time we'll use roles
and we'll simply list the name of the role that we created.
In this case, MySQL underscore DB and Flask underscore Web.
Our application has been monolithic until now,
meaning both database and web application
has been on the same server so far.
Now that we have roles, it is easy for us
to change our design into a distributed application model.
We would like to distribute database and web server
to two separate servers.
Our new playbook looks simple too.
Now we have two plays as we have two servers.
The first play configures database on the first server
and the second play configures web server
on the second server.

--- Demo - Roles ---

-: Hello and welcome to this demo.
In this demo, we're going to see
how to further modularize our work into roles
how to create our own roles
based on what we have done so far,
and how to share that into the Ansible Galaxy community
and how to share it with the other users
in the Ansible community.
So we already have a lot of details
separated into separate files like group WARs and tasks.
So it should be easy for us to create roles from here.
So first, what we are going to do
is we are going to create a new folder for roles.
So it should be created under the same directory.
So we will create a folder called roles
and there are two ways to create roles.
First is to use the Ansible Galaxy command
to create the role.
That way it'll automatically create
that folder structure for us.
The second way is to create it by ourselves.
So we will look at both, both the methods.
So first we're going to have to go into the roles directory.
So I'll see the into the roles directory.
And then I will use the Ansible Galaxy init command
and provide a role name.
In this case, I'm going first create a role for my SQL.
So I'll say my SQL underscore DB.
And right there I've created the role successfully.
If I go into the role
I will be able to see the folder structure.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to pull down those files that were created
on the system into my development environment.
So I'll just use the IDDs download feature
to download those new files.
Now, if I look at the roles directory
I can see the my SQL DB folder
and the folder structure that is.
that was created underneath it.
So if you look at it, there are a number of folders
that were automatically created, like defaults.
Defaults is a folder which will store
all the default variable values.
And then you have handlers, meta tasks, tests and vars.
So they all have their own purposes.
And you also see the readme file.
You can also see that a readme file
is automatically created.
So if you open this readme file
you will be able to see that it's an MD file.
It's in a standard readme file format
supported by co-repositories like GitHub, et cetera.
So it's important to modify this readme file
and update it with documentation
about the role that you're creating.
I will skip that for now.
Now what I'd like to do
is I'm now going to move all the tasks
from the deployed DB task folder
and I'm gonna move it into the task folder inside my role.
There is a main dot yaml file created automatically
there when we created the folder structure.
So that's where it needs to go.
So whenever Ansible runs a playbook
and when it sees that we are using a role
it automatically loads all the tasks
from the task directory and from the main file.
So the main file is the default file
that where it load all the tasks from.
So I have all the tasks there.
Now I can get rid of the deploy DB task file
that we created earlier.
Now the second role to create is for the web.
So I'm going to create this time,
I'm going to create it on my own
without using the Ansible Galaxy command.
So I'm just going to create that folder structure myself.
I will create a flask underscore web directory under roles.
And under that, now I really don't need all that
for all of that folders if I'm not using them.
So in this case, I'm only using tasks under roles.
So I'm just going to create a tasks folder.
And then under the task directory
I will create a main dot yaml.
So it has to be main dot yaml.
And now I'm going to move all the tasks
from the deploy web dot yaml file into this.
So now I have all the tasks here.
Now I can delete, get rid of the entire task folder
that we created in the previous session.
So now I have two roles created
a flask underscore web and my SQL underscore DB.
Now we'll see how to associate that with our main playbook.
But if you look here, I can now get rid of the include task
but I also have a one task at the top
that installs all the required dependencies.
Now if you look at the task, it is for installing.
It's basically for installing Python
and all other Python dependencies.
Now, what I could do is I could create a new role for Python
and move this task into that.
So that way in the future, if I were to use Python
if I had a requirement to install Python
on any of the servers in any of the projects,
then I could reuse that particular role
to get Python installed.
So I'm going to going one step,
one more step by creating a new role for Python.
So I'm gonna create a new directory for Python
and I'm going to create a new directory into that for tasks.
And I will create a new file under it for main dot yaml.
Now I'm going to take the task
and place it under the main dot yaml under the Python roles.
So now I have three roles
flask underscore web, my SQL underscore DB and Python.
Now I could get rid of the task section altogether
because now we are no longer importing
or including task from a task file.
From now on, we are working with strictly with roles.
Now you can have tasks and you can have roles in a play.
Or you can have any one of them, either tasks or roles.
So now I don't have any tasks to include
so I'll just go with roles.
So I'm gonna create the roles directory
and under that I'm just going to give a list.
Now, this list and the order of this list is important
because the my SQL and other web packages
are dependent on Python.
So I must make sure that I apply the Python role first
and then followed by the other roles.
So in this case, I have a all in one setup
which means I have both DB
and web server web application on the same server.
So what I'm going to do is in roles,
first applying the Python role,
and then I'm applying the my SQL DB role
and then the flask web role.
Okay, so I'm all set.
Now my playbook looks really, really simple
and I have all the tasks moved out
into respective task file for the respective roles.
So this is how it should look at the end of our work.
At the end of the development of Ansible projects
this is how it should look.
The main playbook should be very, very simple
and reusable.
Okay, I'm now going to execute my Ansible playbook
with the new changes.
And I can see that the connectivity is established
and it's waiting for the dependencies to install.
And now you can actually see a small change in the task.
So if you look right here, you see that it's Python.
Now you see it's separated by SME column.
So this is the task, and this is actually the role name.
So this is where you can see that the Ansible
is applying this particular role.
And as part of this role, it's running this particular task.
So this is the role name
and this is the task name under that role.
And you can now see
that it's currently installing my SQL database
from the my SQL DB role.
And right here you see it's installing Python flask
from the flask underscore web role that we created.
Okay, so that's the end of the playbook execution.
And we can see that all the necessary tasks are complete
and the web servers are up.
Okay, so now I'm going to demo how to share our work
with other users in the Ansible community
in the Ansible Galaxy community.
So Galaxy is the Ansible's community
for downloading existing roles and sharing roles.
So if you go to galaxy.ansible.com and log in
you'll be asked to log in.
You could log in with your GitHub account
and you'll be able to see and explore
all the existing roles right here.
You can browse roles and browse others, et cetera.
So as you can see,
there are a lot of my SQL roles available. Okay?
So there are multiple ways to do this.
One is you can do everything
with the Ansible Galaxy command line
or you can do it from the Ansible Galaxy webpage.
I will show how to do it
with the, through the Ansible Galaxy webpage.
So here we have our role in our our directory.
So if you go to the roles directory
you have all the three roles.
So I will start with the my SQL DB role.
So I'm gonna go into the my SQL DB directory.
As you can see the folder structure right here
we use the Ansible Galaxy init command
to create this folder structure.
One thing I would want to do
is update the readme file real quick,
just so the users know what exactly
this particular role does and how it works.
So I'm just going to say the role name
is going to be my SQL DB.
And here a brief description of the role goes here.
So I'm just going to say
this role installs my SQL database.
And then in your requirements role variables
I don't have any role variables
so I'm just gonna get rid of that dependencies.
So dependencies are going to be,
so Python must be installed.
So that's a dependency.
And in an example playbook
I'm just going to show an example of how to use this.
So what we did,
I'm just going to pick the example from our playbook.
So my SQL DB.
So this is a sample playbook
and all we need to do is for the servers roles
applied this my SQL DB role.
And then the license and other information.
So I'm just gonna leave that as it is,
have just made minimal changes,
just gonna get rid of requirements.
Okay, So I've made that change.
And another thing that I need to make sure
before sharing it with Ansible Galaxy
is that you must make sure to update the meta dot main file.
So the meta folder contains a main file
that stores information about your role.
So it's good to update this.
So I'm just going to update my name and description.
Such as architect.
I'm going to leave everything else as is.
And if I scroll down, look at this,
make sure that you enable platforms
because this is a check that Ansible Galaxy performs
when you when you try to share it,
import it into Ansible Galaxy.
So make sure to uncommend this section.
So you must have platforms in here.
And then I'll say what we have tested is on Debian.
So I'm just gonna say Debian
and I'm just gonna say all versions.
So the supports Debian and all versions in Debian
and then Galaxy tags.
So I need to tag my role to something to some values.
For example, in this case, it is a role for a database
and it is a role for my SQL specifically.
So I'm just gonna tag it with those two.
And then dependencies, I'm just gonna ignore that.
So those are a few changes I've made here.
And then rest, everything is okay.
So I'm going to log into my GitHub account
and I'm going to create a new repository,
and I'll call that Ansible dash role dash my SQL.
So Ansible dash role is a standard naming convention
that everyone uses for Ansible Galaxy.
So Ansible dash role dash and then whatever this role for
in this case, my SQL.
I'm just going to give a brief description.
This is an Ansible role for my SQL for installing my SQL.
And make sure that it's public.
And I'm not going to do anything else.
I'm just going to create repository.
So now I have my repository here.
And it's really easy now to check in your code.
Just follow the instructions here.
First, I do a gate init.
And that initializes an empty gate repository.
And then I do a, I already have a readme file
so I'm not going to add that.
But instead I need to add all the codes.
So I'm going to copy this.
I'm going to do a gate add dot
and that adds all the files to the gate repository.
And then I need to commit that,
those changes I'm going to do a commit right here.
So all the files are added.
And then I need to add a remote.
I need to add a remote origin
for this particular and specify this repository.
Go back, add that.
Then I'm just going to push the code.
Push.
Now, when I do that, it ask me for the username.
I'm gonna say, Raymond Charles.
And I'm gonna give it my password.
So it's pushed my code to the gate repository.
So if I go back right here and refresh this page
I should be able to see that code here
and I can see the readme file
that I just updated come here like this.
So I have all that here.
I have the tasks,
and if I look into the main file in the task,
I see all the tasks related to that.
So I'm good here.
All right, so now I have a role created here.
The next step is to import that to Ansible Galaxy.
So if I go back to Ansible Galaxy,
and if I go into my roles,
it's going to perform a search automatically
and list the repositories that it finds.
So I'm just going to refresh.
So it's already found the new repository
that I created called Ansible dash role dash my SQL.
And by clicking on this
it will now try to import that particular role.
And as you can see, it's successful.
So if I click on the, on the roll
you can see information about the role here.
So the platforms that it supports
the name of the role, the minimum version.
All of this information is coming from the meta file,
the tags that we provided.
And then here you can see the command for installation.
So if I'd like to install this role
for any purpose in the future,
or if anybody wants to reuse this particular role
in the future, they can just run this command
and it'll import this role into their projects.
If I now go to explore and or if I go to browse roles
and if I search for my SQL,
there are already a lot of my SQL roles,
but these are not mine.
If I search for author and if I search by my name
I will actually see the my SQL role come up here.
So, and then the users will be able to see that particular
see the role, and you can see the downloads in the future.
And they also have a link
directly to the GitHub repository to find the role.
So this is one way for searching role.
Another way to search for roles
is to search through using the Ansible Galaxy command.
So I'm going to do Ansible dash Galaxy search
and my SQL and I will be able to see all the my SQL roles
that are available out there,
and a brief description
and you can easily import.
And here you see this is, there's the role
that I just created.
Okay, so this description was supposed to be
a description of the repository and not my description.
So yeah, you can see there are hundreds of my SQL roles
available out there for various purposes.
So before you create a role on your own
make sure you search Ansible Galaxy for any existing role.
Look at the license on those roles and reuse.
Okay? So that's the end of this demo.
I hope you enjoyed it.
Continue over to the coding exercises section
and practice working with roles.

--- Asynchronous Actions ---

(typewriter keys clanking)
Instructor: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture,
we'll be talking about asynchronous actions.
As we discussed before,
Ansible establishes connectivity to target servers over SSH.
This means the SSH connections stay alive
throughout the execution of the task in a playbook.
At times, we may want to execute a long running task
or a process that exceeds the SSH timeout.
Or we may simply not want the SSH connection
to stay alive throughout the operation.
Instead, invoke the process and check on it at a later time.
Or we may want to run multiple processes at once
and check on them later.
Or another use case maybe to run one or more processes
and not even bothered to check their status.
All of these can be achieved using asynchronous actions.
Let's say, as part of our web application deployment,
we have a script that monitors and performs health checks
on the web server.
It's located at optmonitor_webwebapp.py.
The scripts perform various monitoring and health checks
including a stability check to ensure
that the web server stays online
for at least five minutes without any issues.
So obviously this script takes at least five minutes
to complete execution.
We don't want Ansible to hold the SSH session alive
until the script finishes execution.
We want to tell Ansible that this is an asynchronous task
so kick it off and check on it after say, every minute.
So we use the async directive to specify
the maximum time we would expect the task to execute.
In our case, let's say six minutes,
considering the other checks that needs to be performed.
The async directive tells Ansible
that this is an asynchronous task, so kick it off
and check on it later.
And how frequently does Ansible check
the status of the script?
Now, by default, Ansible checks every 10 seconds.
If you want to change that, use the poll directive.
We don't want to check every 10 seconds as we think
that's too often and we don't want to wait for five minutes
because what if the script fails after the first minute?
We don't want to waste the remaining four minutes waiting
for Ansible to check the status.
So checking every minute seems good.
So we set the poll value to 60.
Let's add another task to monitor, say the database
and we will give it six minutes to execute
and poll every 60 seconds, just like the previous task.
What happens here? When Ansible starts execution,
it first executes the first task
but it's still going to wait for that task to finish.
Asynchronous does not mean Ansible is going
to run that and move forward.
It's going to monitor the status of the script
and wait until the time specified is elapsed.
In this case, 360 seconds.
So in this case, it's going to run the first check
and then wait for about six minutes for it to finish
and then run the second check for monitoring the database
and wait for six minutes for that to finish.
What we could do is save a lot of time
by running both of them in parallel.
So we would like to run the first task
and have Ansible move immediately to the second task
and kick off the second check and then wait for
both tasks to finish at the end.
We could do this by setting poll value to zero.
By setting a poll value to zero,
we are asking Ansible not to wait there polling the task,
instead immediately go to the next task.
In this case, Ansible will go ahead to the next task.
However, immediately after kicking off
the second monitoring task, Ansible will exit.
We haven't done anything to make Ansible wait
for the task to finish at the end.
In order to do that, we must first register the result
of these tasks to a variable.
So in this case, we are registering the result
of the first task, which is monitoring web application
to a variable called webapp_result.
And we are registering the result of the second task
which is to monitor the database
to a variable database_result.
And then we're going to have a new task to the end
called check status of the task.
And we use the async_statusmodule
to check the status of the task.
So one of the parameter
that the async_statusmodule takes is a job ID
and we could get the job ID for the previous task
using webapp_result, which is what we registered
and .ansible_job_id.
So there we are passing in the job ID
for the previous task and then we're gonna wait here
until that task is finished.
Now remember, all the modules do not support Async,
so you need to make sure
that whatever module you're using supports async.

--- Strategy ---

-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth,
and we are learning Advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we'll be looking at strategy.
So what exactly is strategy?
Strategy defines how a playbook is executed in Ansible.
Let's look at an example.
Here, we have a simple Ansible playbook.
Note that the actual code related to each task is hidden,
but we have seen a lot of that before.
So just think of them as tasks defined properly
in an Ansible playbook.
Let's look at the playbook at a high level.
With this playbook, we are trying to install
a web application on a single server in an all-in-one mode.
Meaning, we will have a database and web server
running on the same system.
The tasks run by Ansible are to install dependencies,
install MySQL, start the database,
install Flask, and finally,
run the web server.
It's pretty straightforward since we have a single server.
When Ansible runs, it completes one task after the other.
It installs the dependencies,
then proceeds onto the next task of installing MySQL,
and then starts the service, and then installs Flask,
and then finally, runs the web server.
All good here.
Now let's see how it works
when there are multiple servers involved.
In this playbook, we're going to run the Ansible playbook
on three separate servers.
Our intention is to install a complete web application
on all three servers in an all-in-one mode.
So we have three servers now.
When Ansible runs, it runs each task across all servers
in parallel at the same time.
It waits for the task to finish on all servers
before proceeding to the next task.
In this case, Ansible installs dependencies
across all servers and waits for it to complete
on all servers before proceeding to the next task.
And then it installs MySQL database on all servers,
and then starts the database on all servers,
installs the Flask dependency on all servers,
and finally, runs the server,
the web server on all servers.
So this is called linear strategy,
and this is the default strategy for Ansible.
Another strategy that is available
with Ansible is called free.
To enable a new strategy, use the strategy directive
and specify the strategy name,
in this case, free.
Obviously, if you don't specify any strategy,
as we have been doing so far,
it will use the default strategy, which is linear.
In this case, each server runs all of its tasks
independent of the other server and does not wait
for the task to finish on the other servers.
So each server can go right to the end as fast as it can
without bothering about any of the other servers.
There's also a third option.
Let's say we have five servers,
but we would like Ansible to execute three at a time.
This is where batch processing helps us.
This is not a separate strategy.
This is based on the linear strategy,
but you can control the number of servers executed at once
or in a batch.
In the playbook, we do not have a strategy option,
so it uses linear strategy by default.
But there is a new option called serial
where you can specify how many servers
you would like to process together.
In this case, I specify three.
So Ansible runs task on three servers first,
and then once that finishes, Ansible proceeds
to run task on the next batch.
It is important to note
that you can create your own custom strategy
by developing a strategy plugin yourself.
In a later lecture, we'll look at how to develop
custom plugins and custom strategy, et cetera.
Now, there are a few other options available
to create such kind of a serial behavior.
In this case, as specified three,
which is why it ran on the first three servers,
and then it ran on the remaining three.
In this case, there are only two,
so it just ran on the remaining two servers.
But there are additional options available
such as using a percentage.
So if you say 30%, instead of three,
then it'll run on 30% of all the servers.
So how many servers can Ansible talk to at a time?
In the previous example, what if you had hundred servers
and wish to run this playbook across all of them
at the same time?
Will Ansible run the playbook
on all hundred servers at the same time?
No, it won't,
unless you specify explicitly.
Ansible uses parallel processes or forks
to communicate with remote hosts.
By default, Ansible can create five forks at a time,
and this is defined in the Ansible configuration file,
Ansible.cfg.
This means that even if you try to run this playbook
against hundred hosts, Ansible will only run
across five at a time.
You could increase this value in the configuration file
to as much as you like provided you ensure
you have sufficient CPU resources
and network bandwidth for this operation.
Head over to the exercises section
and practice using strategies.

--- Error Handling ---

(keyboard clacking)
-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we're learning Advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we will be talking
about error handling in Ansible playbooks.
In the previous lecture, we looked at strategies
and we saw the flow of tasks execution in Ansible.
Let us look at what happens when tasks fail.
In the case of a single server,
we saw previously that Ansible executes each task
against the server until all of them are complete.
Let's go back and see what happens
when it fails at a particular step.
For example, if the first two tasks completes successfully
and the third task fails,
it just fails at that point and exits the playbook.
It's straightforward for a single server scenario,
but let's see what happens
when there are multiple servers involved.
In this case I'm running the playbook
against three separate servers.
When I start the playbook,
it completes installing dependencies on all servers
and then proceeds to installing MySQL on all servers.
Once that is complete, it tries to start the database
but one of the servers fail at starting the database.
So what happens is Ansible takes that server out of the list
and continues to execute the remainder of the tasks
across the other healthy and available servers.
Ansible will make an attempt
to complete as many servers as possible.
This is the default behavior.
In case we would like it to be consistent
and want Ansible to stop the execution of playbook
when one of the servers fail,
add an option called any errors fatal
and set its value to true on the play.
This way, if any task fail on one server, Ansible stops
the execution of the play altogether and exits.
At the end of our web application playbook
we would like to add a new task
to send out a notification email
stating that the web server is ready.
We use the mail module to send out an email to our team
with a subject and body.
In this case, we're sending an email to DevOps@corp.com
with a subject that server is deployed
and a very simple body.
However, this is not a critical requirement
and our SMTP server is not very stable.
So we really don't care
if this task completes successfully or not.
Even if the mail doesn't go through at times
we are still okay
and we don't want the playbook to fail because of of it.
It's just a good to have feature.
To ignore errors we could simply
set ignore errors to yes on the task.
Then the playbook execution will not stop and fail.
Instead, it'll simply ignore the error and continue.
Next, we would like to do some error checking.
For example, we would like to check the contents of a file
called server dot log
and fail the playbook if it has any errors in it.
For this, we use the command module
to execute a cad var log server dot log command.
This command returns the contents of the file.
As long as the file is present and readable
the task will complete successfully.
However, as discussed, we would like to fail the playbook
in case there are errors inside the file.
For this, we are first going to register
the result of the command in a variable
called command underscore output and then we're going to use
the fail underscore when directive.
We will write a condition in it
to look for the word error in the command output.
If it exists, Ansible will fail the play
because the value of failed when will then be true.
If it doesn't exist, then the value in failed when
will be false and so it just continues as normal.
Head over to the exercises section
and practice using ignore errors
and any errors fatal options.

--- Jinja2 Templating ---

-: Hello, and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth,
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we'll be talking about Jinja2 templating.
So what exactly is templating?
For those of you who are new to templating,
it is a process of generating dynamic content
or expressions.
In fact, we have already used templating
in some of our playbooks.
In this module,
we will go a little bit deeper into templating
and understand the various options available.
For example, I have a sentence called,
'My name is Mumshad Mannambeth.'
Here, the name itself is a variable,
so it should form the sentence
with the value in the variable
and not a static name as I have it here.
So I will replace my name
with a variable surrounded by a double curly brackets.
The double curly brackets indicate
that the text inside it is a variable.
Every expression in Ansible
will be evaluated as a template
before being processed by a task in Ansible.
An easy way to test and play around with Jinja2 templating
using Ansible is to use the debug module.
The debug module lets you print a simple message
out to the screen.
So in the playbook, I create a simple debug task
to print a message that uses templating.
Remember to define the variable
in the play to use it in the template.
As I have it here,
I have defined under Vars 'my_name' to be my name,
and then the same variable 'my_name'
is used in the message.
If you hadn't defined the name under Vars,
then you'll actually get an error message,
Ansible will exit with an error message,
saying that my_name is not defined.
So ensure that you always define
the variables before using them.
So what exactly is the double curly brackets?
It is a Jinja2 template.
If you Google Jinja2 online,
you will see that it is
a full-featured template engine for Python.
It is beautiful and powerful
and has a wide range of features.
So it's not something specific to Ansible.
It's a generic template engine
used for various different purposes,
and it happens to be the Ansible's choice
to be used internally for templating.
In the Ansible documentation page,
you can see a lot of examples
on using Jinja2 templating.
We will look at some of those
and practice using some of those.
We know already that the simple and easy use case
is to substitute parts of a string
with a value from a variable.
In this case, the name is,
and my_name has the actual name Bond in it,
which is why it returns 'the name is Bond.'
Let's look at a few more options available.
What if we want the name to be in upper case?
We could simply append the keyboard Upper
to a variable separated by the pipe character.
This way, the value in the variable
will be converted to upper case.
Similarly, we have Lower to convert it to a lower case
and Title to convert a string to title case.
These are called filters.
The keywords Upper, Lower and Title
that you see here are called filters.
There are a lot of other filters available.
We will go through a few more of these.
You can use a Replace to replace a character
or part of a string to something else.
In this case, we're going to replace
the name Bond with Borne.
Like we discussed before,
if you don't declare the value of a variable,
the playbook will fail
with the message that it is undefined.
Now, if you don't want the playbook to fail,
instead use default value for a variable
if it's not defined,
then you could use the Default filter.
For example, if you hadn't defined
the first name explicitly to a value,
if you use the Default filter to set a value,
it will use the value and not fail.
If you had defined the value instead,
then it will use that.
Let's look at some list and set-based filters.
For example, let's say we have three numbers in an array,
as you can see here,
but when the brackets one, two and three,
and that is a set, or an array.
If you'd like to get the lowest number from that,
you could use the Min filter.
And so in this case, it'll return one.
Similarly, you could use the Max filter
to get the highest number.
In this case, it happens to be three.
In case you have an array like this
where you have duplicate values in the array,
for example, one, two, three, and two,
so two is a duplicate,
if you would like to get the unique items from the array,
then you could use Unique keyword.
So in this case, it returns one, two, and three.
Similarly, let's say you have two separate arrays.
One, two, three, four on one side,
and four and five on another side,
and if you'd like to get
the unique values across both the arrays,
then you could use the Union filter.
And so in this case,
it's going to return one, two, three, four and five.
Similarly, if you'd like to find
the common items in two separate arrays,
then you could use the Intersect filter,
and it's going to return four in this case,
because four is present
both in the first array and in the secondary.
If you'd like to generate a random number from 0-100,
you could use the Random filter
and it'll return a random number anywhere from 0-100.
As you can see here,
100 is the input for the Random filter.
If you'd like it to be between 0-1000,
then you could just change 100 to 1000.
Here's another filter called Join.
Let's say I have an array of words,
in this case 'the' 'name' 'is' and 'Bond,'
are all separate words in an array,
and I'd like to join those words
to form a single sentence.
I could use the Join filter
and I need to pass in a separator.
In this case, it happens to be space.
So it returns a sentence
with the words joined together with space.
Let's look at some file-related filters.
To get the file name from a full path,
for example /etc/host is a path,
and if I'd like to retrieve only the file name from it,
I could use the Base Name filter and it'll return hosts.
Now, it doesn't work exactly the same way in Windows
because Windows has a different slash,
Windows uses the backward slash.
So if you would like to make it work for Windows,
then you need to use 'win_basename.'
So in this case, it returns host
in a Windows-style path name.
Next, I have a use case where I'd like
to get the drive letter from a given path.
For that I could use 'win_splitdrive.'
And what it's basically going to do
is it's going to split the given path
between drive and the actual path to the file,
and it returns an array.
It doesn't actually return the drive itself.
It returns an array containing two elements.
Now, what if we want to retrieve
the first element in the returning array?
What we could do is we could append, or chain,
another filter called First to the output that we just got.
So, this is something new.
First, we have the 'win_splitdrive' filter
which returns an array of two elements,
and then we could append the First filter to it
to retrieve the first element in the array.
Similarly, we could use the Last filter
to get the last element in the array.
And this way, you could chain as many filters as you want.
There are a lot of additional filters available
and the best way to find them is
to look up the Jinja2 documentation first.
So if you go through here,
you will get to see a lot of filters available
under the Jinja2 documentation.
If you go to the list of built-in filters,
you will find a lot of built-in filters available.
For example, Capitalize, Center, First that we just saw.
And there are hundreds of built in filters available.
This is one way.
Another way is to go to the Ansible documentation,
and if you look up...
Under Playbooks and Templating,
you will find filters for formatting data.
And here, you have a lot of filters,
it's usage and a lot of examples.
So this is another source
to find a list of built-in filters.
Later in this course,
we will also see how to build a custom filter.
So if you cannot find a filter that you're interested in
and you'd like to write your own logic,
then you can do that as well.
So we look at that in one of the later lectures.
So go ahead to the coding exercises
and play around with filters and Jinja2 templating.

--- Lookups ---

(typewriter keys clanking)
Instructor: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we will be talking about lookups.
So far, we've been storing credentials
for our target servers inside the inventory file.
What if there are too many servers
or if this information is already available elsewhere?
Let's say we have the credentials of the servers stored
in a CSV file in a host name and password format.
The first column being the host name
and the second column being the password.
To read the contents of the file
while Ansible playbook is running,
and to get the password associated to a host,
we can use the lookup plugin.
This is how we use the lookup plugin.
For example, in this case, the first argument that we pass
to the lookup plugin is the type of the file,
which happens to be CSV file in this case.
There are a number of other options available
that we'll see in a bit.
Then comes the value to look up.
For example, here we would like to look up information
about the server, target one,
followed by the file we are looking at.
For example, in this case, the file is stored
under the temp directory and it's called credentials.csv.
And finally, the delimiter, which happens to be comma
in this case, because it's a CSV file.
If you have a file which uses another separator,
maybe like a semicolon or something
then you could specify that here.
So this same lookup plugin for CSV file supports multiple
other character separated file formats as well.
In this case, this whole function or plugin is going
to return the password from the CSV file.
There are a few other lookup plugins available
such as ini, DNS, MongoDB, et cetera.
Information about this can be seen
in the Ansible documentation page
under playbooks, special topics, and lookups.
So if you go to lookups,
you will be able to see the different lookups available
such as, the CSV is what we just looked at.
Then you have the ini file, credstash,
DNS, MongoDB, et cetera.
And here you can see examples of each of these.
Head over to the coding exercise section
and practice using lookups.
We will practice using two types of lookups,
one is the CSV file and the other is the ini file.

--- Vault ---

(typewriter keys clanking)
-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth,
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we'll be looking at Vault.
We've been storing the credentials
used to connect to the target servers
in a plain text format so far.
Storing passwords and other confidential information
in plain text format is obviously not a best practice.
Ansible Vault helps us store this data
in an encrypted format.
There are multiple ways to use Ansible Vault.
Since we already have an inventory file,
we will simply try to encrypt
the current inventory file itself.
To do this, use the Ansible Vault command,
and run the Ansible Vault encryptInventory.txt command.
When this is run, you are asked for a new Vault password.
And on entering the Vault password, the file is encrypted.
Now the contents of the file look like this.
If we were to run the Playbook now,
we will get an error like this.
It reads, "Attempted to read inventory.txt
as INI file decryption failed on inventory.txt."
Well, what it means is basically Ansible Playbook
was not able to decrypt the file.
If you're using any encrypted file like this
in our Ansible project,
then we must append the option ask-vault-pass
so that Ansible asks us for the Vault password.
On entering the same password we used
while encrypting the file, the Playbook now runs.
Instead of prompting for the Vault password,
you could have the Vault password stored in a file,
and have that file passed in as a value
to -vault password-file option.
So as you can see here,
I now have a -vault -password -file option,
and I'm passing in the location of a file,
a txt file in this case, called Vault_pass.txt,
which has the password stored in it.
Now you must be thinking,
what about the security of that file?
Is it okay to store the Vault password itself
in a plain text file?
No, it's not.
So a third option is to pass in a Python script
instead of a Vault pass file.
If you look at this command now, the file name is changed,
and notice the .py extension on the Vault pass file.
What I'm doing here is instead of passing in
a password stored in a plain text format,
and passing in a script, which will in turn,
get the password through a program
and pass it on to Ansible for it to run the Playbook.
This script could be any program that you might have written
that retrieves the Vault password from a secure location.
To view the contents of an encrypted file,
you could use the Ansible Vault view command.
To create an encrypted file,
use the Ansible Vault create command.
Ansible Vault is only used in command line
and nothing to be done in Playbooks,
so we really don't have any coding exercises for it.

--- Dynamic Inventory ---

(object clacking)
-: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we'll be looking at dynamic inventory.
Now, we are getting it into a little bit
more advanced concepts.
Going forward, we'll be looking at some Python code
behind the scenes
so you will need to know some basic Python scripting.
So far, you've seen inventory files in a plain text format,
something like this.
This is the simplest way of defining list of servers
we would like to work with.
But more often than not,
we may want to pull this information down
from an external source like a CMDB database
or through a cloud platform API of some kind.
That's where dynamic inventory comes in handy.
So dynamic inventory is inventory information
that Ansible retrieves programmatically
when the Ansible playbook is run,
as opposed to us defining it
in a static inventory text file.
Let's look at a really, really simple example first.
We have a static inventory file that looks like this
on the left.
The command to execute an Ansible playbook using this
is to pass in the inventory.txt file
as a parameter to the -i argument.
The simplest way to understand dynamic inventory
is to convert the same inventory file into a Python script.
To use a dynamic inventory file using a script,
the command looks the same except for the file name
changing to a script with the .py extension.
So I have a new file now called inventory.py,
which is a Python script,
and all I'm doing for now is to print
the same inventory details in a JSON format.
What Ansible does internally is to run this inventory script
and use the output as inventory information.
Our script is not very dynamic right now
but we could easily modify it to pull the information
from anywhere and print it here.
We will see some real dynamic inventory scripts later on.
Let's take a close look at the inventory script.
Currently, it's very simple.
Starting at the top, you must specify what environment
to run this script in.
In this case, Python using the shebang.
Otherwise, Ansible will try to execute it as a batch script
and it won't work.
Next is retrieving the inventory information.
In this case, we have statically defined it here
but instead of this, you can have code in here
to retrieve the actual inventory information
from some external sources like a CMDB or some kind of API.
The format should be in JSON
and it must be a dictionary of groups.
In this case, I have divided the servers
into databases and web.
Inside each group, you must have a list of hosts
and variables that are assigned to that group.
In this case, Ansible SSH pass and Ansible SSH host.
If you look at the JSON details here, I have databases
which is the group, and under databases, I have hosts,
in which I have a list of hosts.
In my case, db_server is that host.
Similarly, I have web group
and I have host called web_server in that group.
The variables here, which are undefined under vars,
are the group variables, so these will be assigned
to all servers in that particular group.
Finally, we have the main function right here at the bottom
and the main function prints the data, the JSON data,
in a string format using the json.dumps call,
and that's basically it.
And that's our simple dynamic inventory script.
There are couple of things more to handle.
When Ansible executes the script,
it will pass in one of the two arguments.
One is called --list and the other is --host
followed by a host name.
The first one should output a JSON encoded dictionary
of all groups, just like what we have now.
In case of the second, it must print a dictionary
of variables to make available to that particular host.
For example, web, in this case,
has these two variables available.
To handle these arguments,
we will add a new function called read CLI args,
and inside that, read the two arguments.
Then we will modify our main function to read
the CLI arguments first, and print inventory data
in case of list, and some empty data in case of host.
As you might have guessed already,
there are a lot of dynamic scripts available
readily for us to use.
There are scripts available for Cobbler, AWS, Azure,
Google Compute Engine, OpenStack, VMware, Docker, et cetera.
A full list can be found on the Ansible GitHub page.

--- Custom Modules ---

-: Hello, and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Munsha Mungembet
and we are learning advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we will be looking at custom modules.
First of all, let's recap modules.
We have worked with a number of modules
through this course in our playbooks.
Let's take this sample playbook.
Modules are each item in the tasks list
that performs an actual operation,
or a check.
In this case, firewall D, service command, debug
are all modules.
As discussed before,
there are a lot of modules available readily with Ansible
for various purposes, such as
systems specific commands, files, databases, cloud,
windows, and more.
These are all Python codes developed for certain purposes,
and later in this lecture, we will go through
a demo of looking at some of these built-in modules.
But what if none of these modules satisfy our needs?
What if we want to do something custom?
What if we want to develop a custom module
that can be used for a specific purpose in our project?
Let's start with a really, really simple example.
Here, we have the debug module
that prints any given message onto the screen.
We would like to develop a custom debug module
that also prints the message,
but with an additional date prefixed to it.
It's a really, really simple basic use case.
This is a sample program.
So in order to develop a custom module,
we have to develop a custom python script.
This script will be placed under the modules directory,
along with all the other or existing modules,
or this script can be placed under a library directory
under your project,
and you can point Ansible to this library directory
using an environment variable.
So, let's look at the script for a second.
Here, we have a sample program.
First, what we do in this program
is we import the JSON modules
because it is used by our program later on.
So as you can see, we import JSON.
If JSON module isn't available,
then we import a simple JSON.
Then, we import the Ansible module.
Ansible module is a built-in class
that helps us parse the arguments pass to our module.
So it is easy to use that for parsing the arguments,
otherwise we will have a hard time parsing it ourselves.
Then in our main function, we instantiate the Ansible module
by providing our argument spec.
The argument spec is a dictionary containing
a set of arguments we expect for the module.
Just to refresh your memory,
the message is one of the arguments here.
Under the custom debug module that we are newly developing,
MSG is an argument that we are expecting the user to pass,
and that particular argument is received
in the main function,
while instantiating the Ansible module like this.
Similarly, for all the arguments we expect,
we must list them here, one after the other.
We could also specify if the argument is required or not,
and then the type of the argument,
and a default value.
In this case, required equals true means
that the argument is required,
and type equals string indicates that
the argument that'll be passed in by the user is a string.
We then read the value of the message parameter
using the module.params property.
Then, we print the result in a JSON encoded format
and exit the program.
So this is where our custom code is.
This is where we are prefixing the message
with the current time.
And right after we do that we exit the program
with a zero exit code because it was successful.
If there's an error, we catch that error
and we exit the program with an exit code "one".
To improvise this a little bit,
we could replace this whole section of printing and exiting
with a built-in call available with the Ansible module
called "module.exit_json".
Module.exit_json prints the message
and any other properties that you parse in here
to the screen and exits with exit code zero.
Module.fail_json prints the error message you parse in
and exits the module using exit code "one",
indicating that there was an error.
Remember not to print anything else on the screen.
The output of this module should strictly be JSON encoded.
As per the Ansible best practices,
there are a few more items required
for a complete Ansible module.
One of it is documentation.
When you run the Ansible document with a module name,
it lists the help file, or man page,
for that particular module.
In this case, I ran the ansible-doc debug command
and it printed the documentation page
for that particular module.
It contains a description of the module, what it does,
and what parameters can be passed to it.
This documentation is generated from a documentation block
in the module code.
In the module code, before the main function,
you could create a documentation block like this.
This particular block is in a YAML format
and it has the module name, a short description,
a long description, the version,
the author's name, some requirements,
and the options, which are the arguments that are parsed
to this particular module.
Another one of the best practices is examples.
Ansible dash document also outputs
few example use cases of the module.
This documentation is generated
from an example blocks in the module code.
If you look at the the module code
right after documentation here, you have an example block.
This is what will be used by the ansible-document
to show an example usage of the module
to the user when he runs the ansible-doc debug command.
So where are these files created?
By default all built-in modules
are located under "modules directory"
in Ansible folder under disk-packages in Python.
If you need the custom module
to be made available for a role,
you could put this under a library folder in your role
and it will automatically be made available to the playbook.
Or, if you need to make it available for multiple projects
you could store it anywhere and specify the path
using ansible_library environment variable.
Let's first look at the GitHub page for Ansible
to see all the, to see some code for the built in modules.
If you go to the Ansible GitHub page,
and under Ansible,
if you go into the "modules directory",
you can see all the list of built-in modules available here,
categorized by the purpose.
For example, let's take a look at
one of the built-in modules, under "commands".
We're going to look at command.py.
Command.py is the command module.
If you look at it, as we discussed before
you could see the documentation block here.
So this is what
shows the documentation of this command to the user.
And then here you have the examples block
showing a few of the command module examples.
And then, this is where the actual code is.
So as we know, in the main function
this is where the Ansible module gets initiated
and these are the parameters.
So, as we know that
the command module has these few parameters
and you can see the values for that.
So then the parameters the value from the parameters
are retrieved here using the module.params dictionary.
And then you have all the logic here.
You can see that if there's a problem,
module.fail_json fails.
For example, if there's no command given,
then the module.fail_json exits the module execution
with the particular return code.
Similarly, you can see more details
about the command execution in this code.
So you might be thinking it's a bit difficult to
put together this documentation, the examples,
and the arguments, and then specifying the Ansible module,
the argument parser this way, et cetera.
But I do have an easy way for you.
(mouse clicking)
So there's this tool,
this open source tool that I've been working on,
called Ansible playable.
So if you go to the website,
(mouse clicking)
(typing)
ansible-playable.com
you'll be able to see this project
and you can see it the project information
on GitHub, as well.
So, if this is the first time
you're looking at this project,
feel free to watch through these videos for overview
and getting started.
And, so this is basically a project, a UI for Ansible,
which will help you develop Ansible playbooks
and run them and test them easily.
Now, the reason I'm talking about this particular tool here
is to demo how to create a custom module using this tool,
because it's really easy to do that.
So if you go to, well, basically if you log in first,
(mouse clicking)
and if you go to the modules section right here,
you will be able to see,
I'll show you a quick demo
on how to develop a custom module.
So you basically click on "new module"
to create a new module.
As soon as you click on the new module button
you get this form where you can fill out all the information
and on the right you can actually see a template
for a custom module.
So whatever we discussed, importing the JSON on at the top,
and then you have the documentation block,
and then you have examples block,
and then you have the main function with the parameters.
So I'm just going to show you how it works.
So let's say our custom module is called "custom debug.
So when I type in the name, you can see that on the right
it's automatically updating the name of the module
and the documentation section.
And so I'm going to say version 0.1,
my name, (typing)
(typing continues)
And then, a short description.
(typing)
This is a custom debug module,
and a long description,
(typing)
print message with timestamp.
and then any notes or requirements that you might need.
And then this is where you put in the parameter.
So currently, as you can see on the right
it just has one parameter.
You can see the dictionary information right here.
Let's say you put in
a parameter, custom parameter like this.
The parameter that we had was MSG for message.
And when you see, as soon as you type in the information
about your parameter, you can see it automatically update
in the module on the right.
Similarly, I'm going to say it accepts a string,
it is required, and any aliases or choices that you want.
Currently, I do not have any alias or choice, (typing)
so I'm just gonna leave it like that.
And I'm going to, I can add as more variables if I need.
So for example, I'm going to add a new variable called VAR.
Its variable and it's the type is going to be string,
it is not required,
it doesn't have a default value, et cetera.
So as you can see here on the right,
it automatically creates those parameters.
And then, this is where your actual code needs to go.
Currently, it just prints saying
by printing a success message.
Instead of that, you could add your logic here.
So this is where your logic needs to go.
Whatever you are doing needs to go around here.
Currently for now, I'm not going to add anything there.
And then click on "save", and it saves that custom module.
So you can basically take this now
and use it in your project.
This also has, this tool also has
the ability to test the custom module.
So if you click on "test", it actually brings up a prompt
with the list of key value pairs that you need to parse in.
So put in the message or the variables
and then click on "okay", and it'll run.
In this case, it's not going to run
because the feature has been disabled
because it's the public website.
It's a demo website.
And so if you'd like to run it on your own,
you can actually run a copy of this tool
locally in your environment
and instructions for that are available here,
and that then you will be able to run
and test your playbooks,
and custom modules in your environment.
So it makes your life really, really easy.
Okay, so just one more thing.
When you look at the Ansible documentation
for developing a custom module,
after developing a custom module,
Ansible provides provides a
Ansible provides a tool to test your custom modules.
If you look at the Ansible documentation page
you will see instructions to test your custom modules.
So under unit testing, you'll be able to see instructions
for testing your custom modules.
So that's about it.
Thanks for your time, and I hope this was a useful session.

--- Plugins ---

(keyboard clicks)
Moonsha: Hello and welcome to this lecture.
My name is Moonsha Manam Beth
and we are learning Advanced Ansible topics.
In this lecture, we will be looking at plugins in Ansible.
The core Ansible engine uses a variety
of plugins to perform various actions.
For example, it uses action plugins to invoke modules.
It uses connection plugins to establish communication
with hosts.
Filter plugins to manipulate data.
Lookup plugins to work with data from external sources
such as, CSV lookup that we saw earlier.
Strategy plugins to control flow and execution of play
and callback plugins to handle events
or results of execution.
There are a number of other plugins as well.
This architecture makes Ansible highly extensible
as we could easily create additional custom plug-ins
to suit our needs.
Let's look at creating a couple of custom plugins.
If you remember, what we covered
in the Jinja2 templating chapter,
before,
we covered a number of filters that come built-in
with Ansible as part of Jinja2 or otherwise.
If none of the above satisfy our needs,
we could create our own custom filters.
Let's create a simple custom filter
that we can use in the playbook
to get the average of a list.
We have a simple playbook that prints the average
of a given list of numbers.
Note that average is the filter we need to develop
as it is not available by default in Ansible.
To do this, create a simple Python file named average.py
and create this piece of code in it.
A class named filter module must be created
and that has a filters method that returns a dictionary
of filter names and filter functions.
In this case, our filter name is average
and our filter function is also average.
The filter function accepts a list as input
which is the list called marks passed in here.
Then simply calculate the average and return it.
So if you look at this code right here,
I have a class called filter module.
And then inside that I have a function called filters
which returns basically a dictionary
of keywords and functions.
So in this case, I just have a function called average
and so I'm just returning that particular function
and that function accepts a list.
So, this list is the marks that is here or right here.
So this entire list of marks is going to be passed
into this particular function.
And so that is available here.
And I have this really small logic that sums up the list
and divides it by
the length of the list to get the average
and then it returns that average.
When we run the playbook now,
we need to remember to set an environment variable
called Ansible_filter_plugins
and point it to the filter plugins directory.
This is how Ansible knows where to find new plugins
that you created.
Or you could create these plugins,
these new plugins in the, along with the default plugins
that are available under the Python library folder.
But we don't want to mess around
with the original source code.
We want everything that we do to be in our project.
Which is why we create a folder called
filter_plugins and create this particular file
inside that folder.
When you run this command,
now before running the Ansible playbook
as you can see here we have set
the Ansible filter plugins environment variable
to the location, which is filter_plugins folder.
And now when I run the Ansible playbook,
I can see that it runs and it prints
the average of the marks.
Now, let's talk about callback plugins.
Callback plugins is another type of plugins.
The output that we usually see from Ansible
is a result of the callback plugin.
It is a callback plugin that brings the information
that you see here in this format on the screen
at the end of each task or play execution.
This default output is called skippy.
We could change the callback plugin to use JSON
instead of printing it in a text format that you see here.
For this, you need to set the environment variable
called Ansible_stdout_callback
and it will now print the results of the execution
in a JSON format.
As you can see right here.
So what are the use cases of a callback plugin?
The callback plugins are not only used to print information
out to the screen.
You could perform other advanced options such as,
mail to send errors or notification emails,
or to integrate with applications like HipChat
by sending status updates
during playbook execution
to integrate with other applications like
Jabber or Logstash or Slack.
The timer callback plug-in calculates the execution time
and prints it to the console at the end of the execution.
So, these are a few of the built-in
callback plug-ins available.
There's a full list of available callback plug-ins.
If you go to the Ansible source code repository
and under the Ansible folder
you will be able to see plugins and callback plugins.
And here you can see a list of callback plugins
that are available.
Now, as we talked before, you could simply
look up one of these and you should be able to
develop a custom callback plugin yourself.
Probably, if you want to integrate
with one of your applications, you could easily copy one
of these callback plugins and look up what it does
and then modify it to create your own callback plugin.
So let's take a quick look
at how a custom callback plugin can be developed.
As before, we create a new Python program.
In this case, we create a class named callback module,
extending from the callback module default class.
Then we override a few methods in the parent class
such as the V2_playbook_on_task_start
and then you have V2_runner_on_failed
V2_runner_on_ok
V2_runner_on_skipped, et cetera.
So what this does is every time a task starts execution
for example, let's say we are installing a web server and
and we are using the APT or Yum module
to install a particular package.
And as soon as that task starts, this particular function
will be called with information about that task.
And within this, we could do whatever we want.
For example, we could just print out
that information or we could send out an email
or make a REST API call to some other interface, et cetera.
Similarly, if the task finishes successfully,
then this particular function will be called.
If the task finishes and it fails
then this particular function is called.
And if the task was skipped for some reason
like for example, we talked about the conditionals
where we used the when directive to
decide if a particular task has to be run or not.
So, if a when directive decides
that a particular task will not be run and will be skipped
then this particular callback will be called
and you can basically
override this function and use it.

--- Conclusion ---

-: Okay, so we are at the end of the advanced Ansible course.
So together in the basic and advanced courses,
we discussed what Ansible is,
how to set up and install Ansible,
and get started with Ansible,
what YAML files are, what inventory files are,
what playbooks look like,
and how to develop playbooks,
what are variables and how they're defined,
what conditionals and loops and roles are.
And in this course specifically,
we discussed more details on roles,
how to develop your own custom roles,
and how to share it with the community,
or how to search and use roles
from the Ansible Galaxy community.
We discussed what is synchronous functions are
and how to use them.
We discussed about error handling, Jinja2 templating,
lookups to look up information
from external sources like CSV files, et cetera.
We learned about vault
and how to secure information using Ansible vault.
We discussed about dynamic ,
creating dynamic or custom modules
like dynamic inventory files or scripts,
how to develop custom modules, filters, plugins
or callback plugins, et cetera.
And we also practiced a lot
of various playbooks for different use cases.
You should now be confident
in developing your own Ansible playbooks
or even custom modules and plugins.
Always, always remember to refer
to the Ansible documentation page
at all times for updates or information
about new modules or instructions on using them.
Thank you so much for your time,
and I hope you had a good learning experience.
Do let me know your feedback
and I really, really value your feedback.
I'm constantly looking to improve the course.
Once again, thank you very much
for your time and I hope to hear from you.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
