

=== Introduction ===


--- Slides and Diagrams download ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Our course approach ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So before we go on ahead,
let me go ahead and explain what we're gonna focus on
when it comes onto this course.
So we're gonna align ourselves
when it comes onto the objectives of the AZ-400 exam.
So we're gonna have a mixture when it comes onto learning
about the DevOps processes, along with the tools
to actually cater onto implementing DevOps.
When it comes onto the first section of objectives,
we are gonna be focusing on processes and communications.
Here we are gonna be looking at the tool
within Azure DevOps that's known as Azure Boards.
Within Azure boards, you can actually go ahead and plan out
your tasks if you are following the Agile methodology
or maybe using Scrum processes.
You can go ahead and track your tasks,
plan out your work with the help of Azure Boards.
Another tool that is available in the market
when it comes onto maintaining your plan and your tasks
when it comes onto
working with Agile methodology
is Atlassian, Jira.
Next, once we are done
when it comes onto working with Azure Boards,
the next thing we have to look at is when working with
or implementing source control.
One of the most popular tools
when it comes onto source code versioning is Git.
And we are gonna see initially,
how to work with the Git software.
We'll see how to work with a popular internet based software
that allows us to work with Git repositories,
that is GitHub.
And we are going to look at maintaining Git repositories
within the Azure DevOps tool set
with the use of Azure Repos.
Once we are done with that,
the next important section focuses
on continuous integration and continuous deployment.
Here we're gonna see how to implement, build,
and release pipelines.
A popular tool that you would've heard about
when it comes onto continuous integration is Jenkins.
And when comes onto continuous deployment,
there is a tool known as Octopus Deploy.
In our perspective, we are gonna be looking
at the pipeline service that is available in Azure DevOps.
Next, we are gonna be looking at infrastructure.
At that point in time,
we going to be using the Azure portal
when it comes onto managing our Azure infrastructure.
And we are gonna see how do we combine this
with the use of the Azure DevOps set of tools.
Then we're gonna look at a very important aspect,
and that is security.
How do we implement security in this entire process
when it comes on to implementing DevOps?
And then finally, another important aspect is monitoring.
So monitoring your entire DevOps pipeline.
So I just wanna let you know
on how we are structuring this course.
So we're gonna align ourselves when it comes onto
the objectives given for the AZ-400 exam.


=== Configure processes and communications ===


--- An important note on the course ---

-: Now before moving on ahead
I wanna give an important note
when it comes onto how
this course has been structured.
We are focusing this content based
on the objectives of the AZ-400 exam.
Now, having said this,
you are probably taking the AZ-400 exam on your path
on becoming a Microsoft Certified DevOps Engineer Expert.
If I just right click on the requirements
for getting this certification,
and go onto a new tab,
here it clearly mentions that
when you want to get the certificate
when it comes onto a DevOps Engineer,
you have to take the exam of AZ-400,
but as a prerequisite,
you should have completed
either the Azure Administrator Associate Exam,
which is AZ-104,
or the a Azure Developer Associate Exam,
which is AZ-204.
So based on this, I'm assuming
that a student would have already taken
either exam AZ-104
or exam AZ-204.
Based on this, I'm having an assumption
that the student will be having prior knowledge
on working on the Azure platform
via the use of the Azure portal.
When it comes onto using DevOps, we'll be using
another portal that's not Azure DevOps itself,
that's a different suite of tools,
but at the same time, we need to look at
working with resources on the Azure platform.
So I said the first assumption
that I'm making when going into this course
is that the student has knowledge when it comes
onto working with the Azure portal,
and that you do have your own Azure account in place.
Now, when it comes onto
the development solutions I'm using as part of this course,
I'm using very simple .NET programs.
I'm not doing anything complicated.
If you're coming from a 204 background,
that's a developer background, you'll be having a lot
of expertise when it comes onto development.
But I wanna ensure that I also cater
to those students who have completed exam AZ-104 only.
They are Azure administrators
and they will probably not be proficient
when it comes onto development.
That's why I'm using very simple programs
when it comes onto this course.
So before moving on,
I wanna give these two important notes
when it comes onto how I've gone about
constructing this course.


=== Design and implement source control ===


--- Section Introduction ---

-: Hi and welcome on to this section.
Now before we go into understanding the different tools
that are available within Azure DevOps,
I first wanna go through a few chapters
as to why should we consider DevOps
in the first place itself.
So for those students who are not familiar,
I'm just having some quick chapters
when it comes on to some sort of primers.
I'm gonna talk about the project models that you have,
like you have the Waterfall model, and then you have Agile.
Do a quick comparison and how does that actually lead
on to the evolvement of DevOps itself.
So I wanna go through some basics first
and then go through the tool set
that's available in Azure DevOps itself.
So let's go ahead.


=== Design and implement build pipelines ===


--- Primer to DevOps - Project lifecycle ---

(upbeat music)
-: So before we actually go into the usage
of Azure DevOps tools,
for the benefit of those students
who do not know why the term DevOps came in the first place,
I wanna go through some core concepts first.
So the first set of chapters are going to go into
what actually encapsulates the development
and deployment of an application.
So let's say you're working for an IT organization.
The IT organization is responsible
for maintaining all of the IT applications
and infrastructure for different business units.
Let's say one business unit
now comes to your company with a requirement
saying that they want to have an application,
that application will have certain functionality
or features that are defined by their users,
the department users.
So now it's your company's responsibility
to develop an application and deploy that application.
For developing and deploying an application,
initially you might have a project put into place.
That project would have certain requirements,
so you'd gather requirements from the users
on what features they want
to be as part of that application.
Then you have a design document,
you would have developers,
you would have a project manager
assigned onto the project itself,
and then you go ahead with the development
and deployment of the application.
Now, the project itself should follow some sort of model.
So there are different models available
by which you can base your project on.
One of the earliest models that was used
was the Waterfall Model.
Initially, this model was actually used
in manufacturing companies and construction companies,
but later on it was adopted by software engineering firms.
In this model, there are different phases.
You have phases such as the project planning phase.
After the project planning phase,
you then start gathering requirements from your users,
you then perform an analysis,
you start designing your application.
So what is the application gonna look like?
What are different screens that could come up
within the application?
If it needs to connect onto a data store,
how would you define that data store?
Then you go into the coding phase
when you actually code the application.
You then test the application,
and then finally you deploy the application.
Some of the advantages when it comes on to using
this particular type of model are...
So there is a clear demarcation
between one phase and the other.
There is one phase specifically for gathering
all of your requirements.
Once that phase is complete,
you'll go onto the analysis phase.
You will start analyzing the requirements.
You have the opportunity to solidify
all of the requirements upfront itself.
This is the most important phase.
So one of the most important phases
when you gather all of the requirements from the end users.
So what are the features that they want
as part of their application?
And it also gives the project manager
who's in charge of the entire project
clear insights on aspects such as the delivery dates,
cost estimates, et cetera.
Some of the disadvantages of this model are
the customer only gets to see the end product,
the application, at the end of the entire life cycle.
For a project, this entire model,
the collection of all of these phases,
it could take anywhere between three months to a year
or even a couple of years to complete.
If it's a complex project,
it takes time to gather the requirements.
It takes time to analyze all of the requirements.
It could take time to design the code test, et cetera.
So here, the issue is that the users, the customer,
will only see a working product, the application,
at the end of this entire project.
Now, if this takes a year,
there is so much that can actually happen in a year's time.
Let's say after four or five months,
the end users, while browsing on the internet,
they come across a similar software
that might be developed by another company, another vendor,
and that vendor is offering that users to buy the product.
Maybe the product fills only 60% of their requirements,
but still they're happy.
The users might then tell you, tell your IT department
that we just don't have time to wait
for the delivery of the software.
I mean, this could happen.
They could tell you that we'd rather now go ahead
and buy the product that's already available in the market,
and maybe the cost of the product
is less than the entire cost of this entire project.
So now this becomes an issue,
because all the time, those four to five months,
you might have reached, let's say, the design phase.
The time is lost, the cost is lost,
because now your users have found a product in the market.
Even though it does not fulfill all of the requirements,
it might be filling the key requirements
and they're more than happy to go ahead
and buy and use that software.
So one of the biggest disadvantages is
your users only get to see the working application
at the end of this entire project.
Next is changes in scope.
Yes, I did tell you that with the help of these phases,
you have a clear demarcation between the different phases.
But sometimes, let's say you are in the design phase,
your users might start adding more requirements.
You might tell them that there is a cutoff
when it comes on to requirements phase,
but then sometimes you just can't stop your users
from giving you further requirements for the application.
So now you have to go back onto probably the analysis phase,
analyze those extra requirements,
and then put it in the design phase.
And if you are in the coding phase,
it becomes even much worse,
because you might have to go back onto the analysis phase,
go back onto the design phase,
and then go back on to the coding phase.
The reason for this is, again,
the amount of time it takes
to go through each of the phases.
I said over time, the users might think of more requirements
that need to be embedded in the application.
Another disadvantage is the bugs that could occur
in the testing phase.
So let's say that you are testing the application.
You have a set of testers who are testing the application
and they might also be tested by a small set of end users.
Let's say the end users during this phase tell you
that one of the screens is not as it should be
when it comes onto the application,
and they tell you this is how the screen should look like.
Because of this,
you might need to go back onto the design phase.
Could be.
Maybe you could go just to the coding phase
and make a small change onto the code.
But if it is a drastic change,
you have to go back again onto design,
change the code, and then again, test.
Again, it takes time,
and all of this could delay the project even further.
So in this journey, in wanting to explain to you
the reason behind DevOps itself,
I wanna start right from the beginning
in how earlier projects actually adopted the Waterfall Model
when it came onto the development
and deployment of an application.


=== Design and implement release pipelines ===


--- Primer to DevOps - Agile Methodology ---

(bright music)
-: So in the last chapter, I explained to you
some of the advantages and disadvantages
when it came onto the Waterfall model.
So told you earlier projects in software engineering firms
normally adopted the Waterfall model,
and probably some variations of this model
when it came onto a project encapsulating
the development and deployment of an application.
Then we came to the birth of the Agile software development.
So in the year 2001, 17 software developers
met to discuss a lighter development method
and came up with a manifesto,
when it came onto Agile software development.
So because of the Waterfall model,
because of the inherent problems with the Waterfall model,
they want to come up with a different model
when it came onto software development.
I've taken this entire term
when it comes onto the Agile practice from Wikipedia.
This is the definition in Wikipedia,
when it comes onto the Agile practice
for software development.
It includes a lot of terms here.
Let me explain this one by one.
Before that in a nutshell, what Agile does is
it's kind of an iterative process,
wherein you go through the requirements.
You then do the design, development, testing,
deployment and review, and then you repeat the cycle again.
So in an Agile practice, you take your entire project,
and you kind of break it up into pieces.
So instead of phases, you break it up into pieces,
and then you tackle each piece one by one.
And each piece is the entire cycle
when it comes on to gathering the requirements,
doing the design, doing the development,
doing the testing, deployment, and review.
Also, when it comes on to building your teams,
in the normal Waterfall model,
when you have a project, so you'll have the project manager,
you'll have the people assign onto the project.
There, those people are only dedicated
for the project itself.
But when it comes onto the Agile practice,
here you have the use of self-organizing
and cross-functional teams,
wherein you have people from different functional areas
working together as a team
when it comes on to building an application.
Also, there is a close coordination of collaboration
between the teams, the customers, and the end users.
In the Waterfall model, if we go back on top,
sometimes what happens is the project team
will only interact with the users
during the requirements phase.
That's it.
And then there could be an entire disconnect
until the testing phase, wherein they give a model
of the application onto the user for initial testing.
So there's kind of a gap.
Yes, companies can have variations
of the model wherein during the end of each phase,
they could meet up with the end user.
But again, this depends upon where the company
is actually following that variation of that model.
So sometimes there is a gap.
The users are only met during the requirements phase
and then the testing phase.
And I said there's a lot that could happen during this time.
But in the Agile practice, it is a constant collaboration
between the cross functional teams,
the customers, and the end users.
The entire purpose also of Agile
is early delivery of the software.
So not software at the end of the entire project,
but software in increments.
So you have an initial deployment of the software
and then you build on the software in increments
and then give it on to the end users.
Here, you have continual improvements onto the software,
and if there are any sort of change in requirements
or understanding, you can be more flexible
on how you respond to the end user.
How do you actually incorporate the functionality
within the software itself?
So instead of being stringent, instead of following
a stringent process in the Waterfall model,
here, you are trying to be more dynamic in nature,
more flexible in nature
when it comes onto the Agile methodology.
So in this chapter, want to introduce the Agile methodology.
This is important when it comes on to DevOps.
In the next chapter, I want to talk about Scrum.
This is one of the Agile development
methodologies that is available.


=== Design and Implement Infrastructure as Code ===


--- Primer to DevOps - Scrum process ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the last chapter, I talked about the agile practice.
So this is kind of a practice.
Now based on this practice, there was,
now based on this practice,
there is an agile development methodology known as scrum.
There are different agile methodologies in place.
It all depends on what suits your purpose.
Here, it is giving an overall diagram
when it comes onto the entire scrum process.
So it's the same case wherein, again,
you have your business department
coming to your company
saying that they want to build an application
for the end users
and the application needs to have certain functionality,
it needs to have certain features.
Now, instead of actually collecting
all of the requirements at one time,
here, what you do is you collect the requirements
in terms of user stories.
User stories is just the features which the users want,
but this is written in their terms.
You know, you basically look at
how do you want to have the features in place
from the user standpoint.
You define them as something known as user stories
when it comes onto the scrum process.
The vision is what you want to have
in the end as a working product.
You then take these user stories,
based on these stories, you now add items.
These are kind of your to do list
for the application development.
So what needs to be done
in order to fulfill these user stories.
These are added onto something known as a product backlog.
Then you start taking a selected set of these items
that need to be done from the product backlog
and you create something known as a sprint.
That sprint has its own backlog.
Let's say I said in the beginning,
you've met with your users
and they have given you five user stories.
So these are probably five features, initial features,
important features that need to be part of an application.
Based on this user stories,
the team has decided that as part of the product backlog,
10 items need to be implemented
in order to fulfill these five user stories.
Out of these 10 items, let's say three important items.
What is really, really required
is taken as part of a sprint.
That is added onto something known as a sprint backlog.
So the sprint is the entire process about
taking those items,
developing the application with those items,
testing the items,
and deploying those items.
You know, deploying the application with those items.
Normally, a sprint is taken as just a two week process,
maximum of four weeks.
So here, the key difference between this process
and the waterfall model is instead of spending a month
gathering the requirements,
instead of spending a month now after that
analyzing the requirements,
instead of spending now another month
creating a design based on the analysis,
here on a continual basis,
you are taking user stories from users.
You are then creating items based on those stories
into something known as a product backlog.
You then have a team that picks out items,
the important items, from the product backlog
and puts them into something known as a sprint backlog.
So these, again, items that need to be implemented.
Then a kind of a small mini project is underway
wherein they develop the application with those items.
They then test the application.
All of this is done within that two week period
and then it is deployed.
And once a sprint is complete,
the entire process is started again.
You'll pick out the next items from the product backlog.
You put it in the next sprint,
so you'll have another sprint now,
again, a two week duration,
and the items within those sprints
are implemented accordingly.
And then in each sprint, you'll have basically a review
wherein you showcase the items that have been done
in the sprint,
and then you have a retrospective
wherein the teams come together to see what worked best
and what did not work,
so that you can actually continuously improve
how things are managed within the sprint itself.
So here are the entire purpose, again,
when it comes on to the scrum process,
which is nothing but an agile development methodology,
is to break up the project into multiple pieces.
So instead of actually taking everything as a whole,
everything in one shot, you take the requirements in phases.
You then implement those requirements,
you go back, you take probably more requirements,
you create items out of the requirements,
and then you implement those items.
This is not only good when it comes onto
the initial development of an application,
but for future releases as well.
See, remember the first thing is obviously,
developing an application and giving it to the end users.
But then after that, over time,
you have to maintain the software.
You have to maintain the application.
Because see, what you also have to remember is
when you complete a project using the waterfall model,
right, you've deployed the application,
your users are happy.
Now after that,
the users might still ask to add more features.
That's normal.
So again, for that,
you might have a small mini project wherein, again,
you gather the requirements for those new features,
you perform analysis, you perform design,
you are recording, you are testing, and you're deployment.
Again, it won't be a full blown project like a year.
It could just be probably three to four weeks
wherein you actually add those new features.
Well, the addition of new features works very well
also in the scrum process.
In this case, again,
you would take those new features as user stories,
add them to the product backlog,
then add them to a sprint backlog,
and then implement it accordingly.
So all you have to understand is these scrum process,
or the agile methodology in whole,
is used as an IT process
when it comes to delivering an application.


=== Deployments, Packages and Test Plans ===


--- Primer to DevOps - Development and Operations ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi, and welcome back.
So in the prior chapter,
I put focus on the project methodology
which was used for developing and delivering an application.
We had discussed the waterfall model.
I then discussed the agile process
which was an iterative way of delivering your application.
Now this is important when it comes onto DevOps.
See, the agile way gives an iterative way
and even a faster way
to deliver an application to their users.
They may not get a full blown version
of the application initially,
but at least they get to see some of the features
of the application deployed onto production
instead of waiting right till the end
to see their application.
With the Agile process, it's an iterative process.
They can see features of their application
in a quicker fashion.
Now, let's come onto the next hurdle.
Let's say a company is using the Waterfall model
for a project.
So let's assume the development team
has developed the application, testing is complete,
and now the application is deployed onto production.
Users are happy.
You then have an operations team in every company.
They take care of day to day operations.
You might have a server operation team
that manages all the servers.
You could have a database operation team
that takes care of all of the databases.
Now, let's say that your users, your business department
has asked for new features to be added onto the application.
Now, normally during an initial project
when you have a project in hand,
normally the project would have the budget
for the development and deployment of an application.
But then after that maybe
there might not be enough budget in place
when it comes on to deploying new features.
Again, this can get quite complex
just taking a use case scenario.
So you might have limited resources in terms of people
to deliver the new feature.
Now, this can put a strain on the developers
who are responsible for adding new features.
See, the problem is when you add new features
onto an application, you don't know
if it might break existing features in the application.
That's why you need to be extra careful
when adding new features.
Testing is very important.
So sometimes developers might try a quick way
in implementing the feature
because they might have a time constraint.
And because of produce budget,
sometimes testing times may not be enough
for testing the application.
These are all real world problems that can occur
when adding new features onto an application.
Now, during this time, I've seen that
operations teams are well aware of these issues
that development teams go through.
That's why they might be hesitant to deploy the changes
of the application onto production based environments.
Because see, in the end the operations team
are the one in the line of fire.
If something happens to the application,
if it goes down, they are responsible for the uptime
of the application, for the uptime of the service,
for the uptime of the databases.
The users will start complaining.
That is why they're always hesitant
and there is always this constant tussle
between the operations team and the development team.
The development team will say they have added the feature,
they have tested it, just go ahead and deploy it.
But the operations team will say,
have you done enough testing?
Have you gone to, let's say the security department
to ensure that whatever feature you have added
is secure when it comes onto the entire application?
Are you sure you have not added any sort of vulnerability
to the application because of the feature you have added?
And this is always because of the disconnect.
See, the development team will be working in isolation,
adding the feature to the application.
And your operations team is always sitting separately
only looking at operations.
Neither team knows what the other team is doing
and that's where we come to the term of DevOps itself.
So let's mark first and end onto this chapter
wherein we have looked at the hurdles
between the development and the operations team.
Let's move on to the next chapter.


=== Develop a security and compliance plan ===


--- Primer to DevOps - About DevOps ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So in the last chapter,
I'd gone through the hurdles when it comes on to,
you know, the development team and the operations team
and that leads to the entire purpose of DevOps itself.
So the entire purpose of DevOps is to ensure
that they don't work in isolation.
In fact, they collaborate with each other
during the entire application life cycle.
So right from the requirements itself, you know,
when it comes onto not only the project itself,
the initial project, but even after that.
So even in the initial project itself
when it comes onto developing an application.
The operations team would be involved
in the beginning itself.
When meetings are held with stakeholders
in let's say understanding the requirements,
you would have representation from both the development team
and the operations team as well.
Normally, in the past you would only, you know,
the project team might only include the developers
because they would probably want to understand
the requirements head on to understand
how they could tackle the requirements
or maybe the design team would only be involved.
But now you have the operations team,
which is also key in all of the meetings
because they also need to understand what goes
into the deployment of the application.
Also, automation is now a very key aspect.
See, the DevOps process makes use of the agile methodology
in most cases.
And with Agile, you are trying to deliver features
in a faster way onto your users.
And if you want to deploy things faster to your users,
automation is also very important.
So we're looking at automation
for faster delivery of application features.
Now, when a company wants to implement DevOps
they have to adopt the right tools.
So when it comes onto automation, this is very important.
There are tools in place that can automate various parts
of the, let's say, delivery of an application.
And we are going to be looking at those tools
when it comes onto the Azure DevOps set of tools.
But apart from the tools when it comes
onto implementing DevOps, it's a big shift
in the mindset and processes.
Companies who are already well
into using the Waterfall model, or even if they are trying
to adopt the agile methodology,
it becomes very difficult for them to adopt DevOps
just because of the big shift that's required
in the mindset of people within the organization.
Now, why is the adoption of the mindset
a very difficult phase?
This is because in traditional organizations
they might be following a very stringent process
when it comes on to deployment of let's say new feature.
So let's say you have an application deployed
on a product environment, the users have asked
for new feature to be part of the application.
Now it has gone to the requirements team.
They have basically gathered the requirements,
taken a week or so, done the design
and the coders have done the necessary coding.
Now it's time to deploy onto a test environment
for testing and then onto the production environment.
Now, before it can go onto the testing phase
there might be an internal process for various approvals.
So I said before going onto the testing phase
maybe it needs to be approved by a manager
and then it goes onto the testing phase,
then the testers test the new feature,
then there could be a testing approval.
Then it goes onto a subset of users for testing.
Then you have a user acceptance testing approval
and then finally it goes onto production.
But in the world of agile, in the world of DevOps
I told you automation is key.
And with all of these approvals in between
how can you achieve automation?
Because all these can be bottlenecks.
Sometimes to get an approval
it could take three to four days,
hence where is the automation?
Hence where is a concept of faster delivery.
So the adoption DevOps is not as easy as it sounds.
It's not only about using the right tools,
it's about changing the entire process
on how do you approach developing
and deploying an application along with new features
for the application itself.
Right, so in these initial set of chapters
I kind of wanted to give some backstory
when it comes onto why do we need DevOps?
So we are gonna be focusing this course
on the Azure DevOps set of tools
based on the objectives of the AZ-400 exam.
But I thought before that, let's go through some history
so that we understand why do we need DevOps
in the first place itself.


=== Implement an instrumentation strategy ===


--- Azure DevOps Free Account ---

(upbeat music)
-: So as I mentioned before,
we are primarily going to
be using the Azure DevOps set of tools.
Azure DevOps has a set of tools.
Such as Azure boats
that is used for planning your work.
You have Azure pipelines
that is used for continuous integration
and continuous delivery.
You have Azure repos
that is used for managing your get repositories.
You can have test plans in place
and you can also have your packages hosted
while the use of a Azure artifacts.
We can start free when it comes on to using a Azure DevOps.
Before I click on the start free button
I want students to understand
that there is a difference when it comes
onto a Azure DevOps interface
and the Azure portal.
If you have taken other courses
when it comes onto a Azure based exams,
you would've worked mostly
with the a Azure portal
wherein you could go ahead and create resources
based on different Azure based services.
What are the Azure DevOps?
There is an entire interface
that is used for working with the Azure DevOps
set of tools and you can start for free.
If you go on the pricing for Azure DevOps services
you will see the individual services.
When you look at, for example, Azure pipelines
you will see what you get for free.
If you look at Azure artifacts
you can see what you get for free.
You also have different plans in place
for the different tools where in, let's say
if you go for the basic plan,
you have the first five users for free
and then you have a price per user per month.
You can actually go on the pricing page
to see all what is offered for free
when it comes onto Azure DevOps services.
Let me click on the start free button.
It will ask me to sign in.
Yeah, it's asking me to sign up now
to get started with Azure DevOps.
I'm going to be using the same Microsoft account
which I'm currently using
for managing my Azure resources.
So you need to have either a Microsoft account in place
or in the initial screen in a Azure DevOps
you could see that you could also start with GitHub.
So I'm gonna use my same Microsoft credentials
which I currently use for my Azure account.
For Azure DevOps.
It's asking me to give a project name
and what is the project visibility.
So let me give a project name here,
please scroll down.
I need to enter the characters that I see here.
Oh, here on continue.
It's now taking me onto something known as
an Azure DevOps organization.
And under a minute now we will be taken
onto the Azure DevOps interface.
Let me go ahead and just cancel this warning.
And on the left hand side
we have access onto the different tools
that are available within a Azure DevOps.
Wherein we have boats, we have Azure repos,
we have Azure pipelines, we have test plans,
and we have artifacts.
So it's very simple to go ahead
and get started with the use of Azure DevOps.


=== UPDATED - Practice Section ===


--- Section Introduction ---

-: Hi and welcome on to this section.
Now, in this section,
we are gonna be looking at using Azure Boards
as the tool within Azure DevOps.
This is used basically like a project management tool.
Herein, you can actually define,
when it comes onto a Agile,
user stories,
and then you can define something known as (indistinct)
that are based on the user stories.
So, we are gonna see how to work with projects
within Azure DevOps,
and how do we start creating these work items
that need to be carried out
as part of the application life cycle development.
So we're gonna look into detail
on how do we first use the Azure Boards tool
within Azure DevOps.

--- Let's start with planning ---

(upbeat music)
-: So, now we're gonna see how do we plan our work
with the use of Azure Boards.
So let's take a situation.
Let's say you are working for a fictitious company,
Cloud Portal Hub.
Now, this company acts as the IT department
for a larger organization.
The organization itself probably has many more departments
such as logistics, human resources, et cetera.
So, these are all of the business units
within the entire organization.
And you work for the IT department
that's part of this organization.
The leadership team in let's say one of the business units,
the Human Resources Business Department
now wants to have an application that needs to be built.
So, they approach the leadership team
within your IT department
telling that they want to build an application.
The leadership team
in the Human Resources Business Department
tell that they can get all of the requirements
from their users.
And obviously, the leadership team
from your IT department is more than happy
to take on the project for creating this application.
Now, when it comes on to the key focus
given by the Human Resources Business Department.
So, they have a primary focus on application delivery.
They want the application to be delivered
as fast as possible.
There is also a key focus on adding features
in the future for the application.
And obviously, they want to have a continuous collaboration
with their end users so that they get the right requirements
that can be implemented within the application.
So, this is now the requirement
given by a business to your IT department.

--- Traditional Approach ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now your audit department is happy
that they have a project that needs to be implemented,
given by the business department.
Now, if you're looking at the traditional approach
when it comes on to implementing this project,
what would normally be done is,
first of all, they would get a project team in place
and have a project manager that's assigned onto the project.
Initially, they would have the project manager
first of all, you know, get the budget approved.
They would get the budget approved from the business.
Then the project manager would have a high level plan.
It could probably also create a business case study
and then you need to hire the team
and get the team in place.
Once this is done,
then the project manager could set up the entire plan.
These initial steps
of just getting the project manager on board,
having a high level plan,
getting all of the budgets approved,
does take time.
And this is just the initial step.
Once the high level plan is in place
and once the team is formulated,
you might have the business analyst,
that could be part of the team,
that would set up meetings, continuous meetings,
with the end users.
First in the traditional work-to-flow model.
After the planning phase, you have the requirements phase.
In the requirements phase,
I said you'll have the analyst
who will set up meetings with the end users,
just to gather the requirements.
Gathering the requirements could take maybe two weeks,
it could take a month,
depending upon the complexity of the requirement itself.
Next, once you have the requirements in place,
you then have the design team
that could design the application.
They could design the different screens for the application,
design the data store.
Where is the data going to be stored?
How is data gonna be stored?
Designing the high level application modules.
And again, this could take time.
The developers could start with the coding phase,
testing the application.
Again, all of this could take months.
And then finally you'll have your software in place.
But are we meeting the first requirement
of the business department,
wherein they're telling us
to focus on delivery, application delivery?
As per the traditional approach,
we have everything in place
but we're not focusing on quick delivery of the application.
Now let's look at our new approach,
wherein we are trying to deliver our software
in a much more agile approach.

--- Our Approach ---

(upbeat rhythmic music)
-: (instructor) So another way
in which we can implement this entire process
is we could use the Agile Methodology.
You could look at using the scrum process
which is based on the Agile Methodology.
Here you develop a scrum team,
which is a small group of people
focused on achieving an objective.
So you'll have scrum teams in place
that will go ahead
and fulfill requirements given by the users.
Here the team would actually
gather requirements from the users,
but not all at once.
Yes, they would have a meeting,
gather requirements from the users.
These will be taken as probably user stories.
What do the users actually want as part of the application?
And this is gonna be a continuous process.
It's not that all the requirements are gonna be gathered
from the users right up right front.
Yes, the key requirements could be taken,
but then after that,
once you have some basic requirements in place
it's time to get to work.
Then you could have these user stories translated
into items that need to be accomplished
as part of a product backlog.
So you have all the items
in the product backlog that needs to be implemented
for the application.
You then start taking the items from the product backlog
and put it into multiple sprints
as part of a sprint backlog.
You will have multiple sprints
that will be used for implementing the application itself.
And on a continual basis,
you'll go ahead and check the status of your sprints.
Now obviously for doing all of this, we need a software
and that's what we are gonna be looking in the next chapter.
We're gonna see how can use Azure Boards
when it comes onto the entire planning process.

--- Getting started with Azure Boards ---

(upbeat music)
-: Right, so earlier on
where did we leave off from?
We had signed into Azure DevOps.
We had create a sample project known as Dev project.
You can actually create multiple projects
within something known as an organization.
Within Azure DevOps,
when we signed up for Azure DevOps, it would've created
for us something known as an organization
and within the organization it would've created a project.
If I just
reduce the zoom here
we have our project, that's Dev project.
This is within our organization.
So I said, you have a project that has been placed
in an organization.
If you wanna go onto the organization itself, click on it.
You will see all of the projects here.
For the organization,
you have something known as organization settings.
We'd be going through the relevant settings
in the subsequent chapters.
If I go back onto my organization,
I can go onto my project.
The project itself also has project settings,
you can go onto it.
And you'll see settings that are relevant
onto the project itself.
Going back onto my project,
here we have some quick links
onto the various functionalities that is available
within Azure DevOps.
First, let me go onto Boards.
Here is where we can start planning our work items.
So for example, let's say you want to create a task
or you want to create a user story.
You would create something known
as a work item within a project, within your organization.
If I choose the option of creating a new work item,
I can see that I can create a work item of an Epic,
an issue and a task.
But I can't create something known as a user story.
Now why is this the case?
This is actually based on the default work process model
that is chosen for your project,
when you create within the organization.
It shows the basic process
and based on the basic process
these are the only work items that you have.
So let me go back onto my organization.
Let me create a new project.
I'll give project name of Agile project.
Let me scroll up, this is gonna be private.
If you now go on to advance,
here in the work item process,
there are different options in place.
By default, it is taking basic
and because it is taking basic,
that's why we could only create something
known as Epics, or we could create issues
but we can't create user stories.
For this I'm gonna choose the work item process as Agile
and let me hit on create.
We can create multiple projects within an organization.
Now that we have our project in place.
If I go onto Boards, if I choose a new work item
we have much more options in place.
And here we have the ability to also create a user story.
So initially, if you don't see the option
of creating a user story as a work item,
it is because of the underlying work item process
that has been chosen for your underlying project.
So when looking at our project,
this actually provides a place
for storing the various work items
and also your source code.
This is something that we are gonna look
at in these subsequent section.
When you create a project,
a team of the same name has a project is also created.
In subsequent chapters, we are going to look
at group, security groups that are available
in a Azure DevOps and permissions.
And then we have the organization.
The organization contains a group of related projects.
For example, you could have an organization
for each business unit that you have
within your organization itself
and then that organization can have multiple projects.
Here, I'm just showing a snippet
from the Microsoft documentation, which has information
about the free tier services that are allowed
for each organization that you create.
Here we are currently working with Azure Boards
wherein we get work item tracking
and something known as Kanban Boards as well.
So in this chapter, just want to get started
by creating the right type of project
so that we can start creating user stories.

--- Creating user stories ---

(upbeat bright music)
Instructor: So in the prior chapter,
we had gone ahead and create another Azure DevOps project.
Now within the project,
let's go ahead and create some enormous user stories.
Let's say that the Business Department of Human Resources
wants to create an application wherein different departments
within the organization could actually have
different job postings,
and then people either within the organization
or external users could go ahead and apply to the jobs
within the application.
The users have given their initial user stories here.
So just giving some very simple examples.
Let's say the user stories are has each department admin
must be able to add a job posting.
There should be an inbuilt workflow for the job posting.
And once job posting is published,
no more edit should be possible on the job posting itself.
So these are all requirements that are given
from the end user's perspective.
You can actually combine these user stories
into something known as an Epic.
The Epic actually is just a larger body of work
that can be broken down into tasks, small number of tasks,
which in turn are user stories.
So here what I'll do is within our Agile project,
I'll create a new work item.
I'll choose Epic.
When you create a new work item,
you're gonna get a screen wherein you can add
a lot of information about this work item.
You can see that this is being created as a new Epic.
We have to enter a title for the Epic,
we can enter a description, we have different fields
for this particular work item
such as what is the area it is part of?
So it's currently part of this project.
What is a state?
It is a new work item.
We have other things that is priority,
risk, effort, et cetera.
Let me go ahead and just add a simple title
and the description, and I can click on safe.
Now it has given me kind of an index number.
It's saying this is Epic 11, and 11 is the index number
for this work item.
When you are starting out fresh
within your Azure DevOps account,
your Azure DevOps organization, it might start from one,
the number one when it comes on an index for the work item.
Since I am creating this course,
I am doing research and development
on how do we work with projects,
how do we work with the different parts of Azure DevOps?
Obviously, I'll be creating
other work items in the background.
That's why the index number is a little bit different
from your index number.
So I said your index number might start from one.
Mine is starting from wherever I left off
based on my research and development
when it comes on to working with Azure Boards.
So we have our Epic in place.
Let me go back onto the work items.
You can see the Epic being shown here.
It's kind of a short form of the work item.
Let me create a new work item.
Let me this time create a user story.
So I'm gonna say each department admin
must be able to add a job posting.
So let me enter the title, and enter the description,
and click on save.
If I go back onto the work items,
you can see I have both of my work items in place.
One is an Epic, and the other is a user story.
Now I said the Epic is kind of a larger body of work
that actually encapsulates the user stories.
Hence, this work item of the user story
can actually be a child of this Epic.
Whatever user stories we are adding
should come as children of this particular Epic
because all of them actually belong onto this Epic itself.
So how can we actually accomplish this within Azure Boards?
Well, we could go onto either the Epic,
or we could go onto the real story.
Let me go onto the Epic.
If I scroll down in related work,
I can add a link onto an existing item.
Here in the link type,
I'll say that the item is a child item.
I can choose my user story.
So now the user story is going to be
a child item of the Epic.
This helps us subtract all of the user stories
that are part of this particular Epic.
Let me go ahead and hit on okay.
Let me go ahead and then click on save.
Now when I go onto the Epic,
I can see all of the user stories
that are actually part of this Epic.
Let me go back onto work items.
Let me create the other user stories.
(mouse clicking)
(keyboard clacking)
Place it here, place the description, and here itself
I can again add a link onto an existing item.
This time I'll choose a parent, and I'll choose my Epic
because now I am saying that the Epic
is a parent of this user story.
I'll hit on okay, click on save,
I'll create my last user story.
Go back onto work items, I'll create a new user story.
I can add the title, add the description, scroll down,
add the link onto an existing item, choose the Epic,
hit on okay, and hit on save.
If I go back onto my work items,
we now have all of our work items in place.
So this chapter wanna start off
with first how can we add our Epic,
and how do we add our user stories
as work items onto Azure Boards.

--- Azure Boards ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the last chapter, we added work items
when it came onto our epic and when came onto
our user stories.
Now we can visualize all of our work items
with the help of a Kanban board.
A Kanban is a framework that is only available,
that is used to implement Agile and DevOps.
And a lot of you would've actually seen this concept
of having boards in place.
For example, you might have these different sections
of you know, maintaining a backlog, your sprints,
your two to this, et cetera,
and you'll see a lot of organizations,
a lot of teams actually having their boards in place.
I'm talking about physical boards
and they would have these slips
or these post notes wherein they would add,
okay what are the items that need be part of the backlog?
What are the items that are gonna be taken onto a sprint?
What are the ones that are currently been assigned?
What are the ones that are in progress
and what are the ones that are done?
We can visualize the same sort of aspect
when it comes onto boards within Azure DevOps.
If you go onto boards here, so currently we were
in work items, we are going onto boards within Azure DevOps.
You can see a good visual representation
when it comes onto your work items.
You have these different lanes in place
when you can see what are the new items,
what are currently in the active state,
what are resolved and what are closed.
Initially, when you go onto Azure boards
you might just get the sort of pop up, it says,
"Welcome to Azure Boards."
Here is this giving you a small picture
on what you can do with Kanban boards.
But for me, since I've already gone through the process
I'm now seeing the visual representation of my work items.
I can then create a new work item form here itself.
I can click on new item and here I can add a description
and here I can add a title followed item,
and it will go and create that item accordingly.
Now, what is the item it is going to create?
Well, it's going to create a user story
because here is where we can see the user stories.
How do we know that we're seeing user stories?
It's based on what is mentioned here.
We have the ability to work
with either features or user stories here.
If you go on to the settings here,
you can see what needs to be shown
when it comes on to user stories and other important aspects
for the settings when it comes onto the board itself.
And then you can easily change the status
of your user stories
by just dragging the card from one lane onto another.
Now the state of this particular user story has changed
onto active, and it is automatically assigned
also this particular work item or this particular user story
onto the admin, basically who I'm logged in with
and it comes onto my Azure DevOps account.
Now, don't worry.
In a later on chapter
I'll show you how we can create another user
within our project, basically within our organization
and then how we can assign a user story
onto or even a task basically, onto that new user.
We can drag it back on
just to highlight that this is a new item.
So it can very easily visualize all of your user stories.
You can see what is currently new,
you can see what's active, what has been resolved
and what has been closed.
Really help off Kanban boards.

--- Work item process ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, at this point in time,
I just want to go through the documentation link
when it comes onto the process flow
or the process template when you work with Azure Boards.
So we've create a project, remember,
based on the Agile work process,
work item process, basically,
and based on that,
we were able to create certain work items.
This documentation page
actually shows you
what you can expect
when choosing the different work item processes.
This is very important.
So, we saw that when it comes onto the basic process,
we have the ability of managing our epics,
our issues,
and our tasks.
This is the simplest process.
Hence, if you want to map this
onto an Agile process,
your epics can be part of your portfolio backlog,
and your issues can be part of the product backlog.
The simplest model.
Then we have the Agile work process
that we are using here as part of our backlog.
We can have our user stories, and we can create our task.
Again, we haven't create our task as of yet,
but that's something that you can do.
When it goes onto Scrum, the Scrum process,
when it comes onto the user story,
it is actually marked as a product backlog item,
when it comes onto to work items.
It's very important.
Know this key difference when it comes onto the work item
between Scrum and between Agile,
when it comes onto Boards within Azure DevOps.
And then you have the formal project method
when it comes onto CMI.
Here, in terms of your backlog,
you can manage your requirements and your task,
and when it comes onto working with your issues,
your change and your risk management.
We have different work items
when it comes onto change requests,
when it comes onto reviews,
when it comes onto issues,
and when it comes onto risk.
And then, if I go ahead and scroll down,
when it comes onto the workflow state,
see I'm talking about the state of each item
that can go between,
let's say, the new and the active state,
onto the resolve state and the close.
All of this is basically a workflow.
When it comes onto the Agile process,
it comes onto the user story.
You can see what is a workflow,
the default workflow in place.
When it comes onto the basic process,
you will see what is a workflow in place,
so on and so forth.
Now, please note that there is a lot of flexibility
when it comes onto working with Azure DevOps.
You can also create your own workflows as well,
because you might have a workflow based
on your organization requirements.
That is also possible.
But when we are working with Azure Boards,
we are gonna be using the default workflow
that is available.
So this chapter,
just want to bring to your attention
this documentation page,
which is very important,
that highlights what should go into your decision
into choosing a particular work item process
for your project,
and what are the different states available
when it comes onto your workflow.

--- Adding tasks to user stories ---

(upbeat music)
-: So here we have a visual representation
of all of our user story where it comes onto boards.
Next, you can manage all of your user stories
in backlogs as well.
So one of the important things is you have your backlogs
of either user stories or your, you know
work items or even your tasks.
Here initially, when you are looking
at this particular screen,
you might be getting planning on the right hand side.
And on the left hand side you have your user stories.
If you want to remove planning,
you can just go ahead and hit this cross symbol.
You can look at again
a view of your features or your stories.
If you wanna see your epics as well,
you can go onto the view options.
You can turn on Parents, you can see the epic.
And under the epic you have your user stories.
Now, within the user story,
we can also create tasks and you can create bugs as well.
So let me do that.
Let me go ahead and create a task.
I wanna create the task
wherein for user story each department admin
must be able to add a job posting.
Let me add a task here.
This will again, open up the screen
wherein we can add details about the task.
Again, we have different aspects, which are a bit different
when it comes on to the definition of the task.
I'm gonna enter a title.
So this will be a task that needs to be implemented
as part of this user story.
I will add the description.
I'll choose Save and Close.
For this user story,
so you can see the task is now added as a child
to this user story.
If I click on the task work item,
and if I scroll down,
you can see a link onto the parent, which is the user story.
Let me go ahead and create another task,
again as part of this user story.
So we just want to add three tasks.
Let me hit on Save and Close.
Let me add another task.
I'll add the title, the description,
hit on Save and Close.
So now in addition to having our epics in place,
having our user stories in place, now we have our items.
So how does it all work out?
So the epic is what you want accomplish as a whole, maybe.
So this could be based on
let's say a particular module for the entire application.
Again, depends upon you.
How do you wanna define the epic?
Then you take the user story.
So this is a representation
of the requirements from the user perspective.
And then based on user stories, you're now creating items.
Sorry, lemme go ahead and just change this.
So you're now creating tasks that need to be accomplished
as part of these different user stories.
This is now from the backlog point of view.
If you go onto your work items,
you will see all of the work items in place.
If you go onto boards,
under this particular user story
you can see that you have three tasks in place.
So we've done our next bit
of adding tasks onto a user story.

--- Now lets create a sprint ---

(upbeat music)
Lecturer: So now, as part of the agile process,
we've collected a few user requirements,
in the form of user stories.
We have added the task for one of user stories.
On the tray, we wanna start implementing a user story
which has these tasks.
We need to add it onto something
known as a sprint.
So when you're looking at implementing things
in an agile fashion,
you have sprints in place.
I told you the duration of a sprint is normally two weeks,
wherein you go and implement whatever items
need to be implemented as part of that sprint.
If I go onto sprints here,
currently (mumbles) has a task board.
I have a backlog, I have capacity
and I have antics.
Now if I go onto backlog currently,
there are actually only three sprints in place by default.
It's known iteration one, iteration two
and iteration three.
Here when it comes on to iteration one,
we can choose the iteration form here itself.
So which sprint are we currently working on?
I can click on set dates here.
This for iteration one.
And I can change the name of this iteration
so where iteration here, means sprint.
What is a name that we want to give onto our sprint?
Now again, you can have a name and convention
for your sprints.
Here I'm just giving a name for the application
that we are trying to create.
Just a sprint number and what's the module?
Job postings.
We can give a start date, give today's start date
and two weeks from now, I'll give the end date.
And I can click on save and close.
We have now our sprint in place
and you can go ahead and rename the other sprints
and give them dates accordingly.
Now we want to add,
our backlog items onto the sprint.
Now there are a couple of ways
you can go ahead and do this.
One way is to go onto your backlogs here.
So remember, this is all of the items
that are part of your backlog.
Now you want to implement a user story, as part of sprint.
You can choose the context menu,
you can choose move to iteration
and you can choose current.
That's the job application sprint.
Now when I go onto my sprints here,
you will see that you have,
because you are in your current sprint
of job application, you have the user story here.
Now it is time for
the team members to implement the tasks that are part
of this user story.
So remember, Azure Boards is all about planning.
All about collecting your user stories,
all about creating your tasks,
managing the different work items
as part of your team.
The team that's going to be working on
the development of the application.
Another way in which you can add it
onto a sprint is, if I go onto my backlogs,
if I go onto another user story,
we can choose the iteration form here itself.
So you can choose the iteration
and then click on save and close.
So multiple ways in which you can add items
onto a particular sprint.

--- Creating users ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
we're gonna see how we can basically add a user
within our Azure DevOps project
so that we can assign tasks let's say onto the user.
So even in your team, in your Agile team,
you'll be having many members
and you'll want to add them
on to your Azure DevOps project.
Now, when you're working with users,
you can first add users on to your Azure DevOps organization
and then assign them onto the project.
Here the users can be Microsoft-based accounts
or GitHub usernames.
The users can then be assigned onto the required project.
Now, when you're assigning users,
they can have different access levels
basically defining users.
First is the basic access level.
This provides most features within Azure DevOps
but excludes Azure Test Plans.
When we have the Basic and the Test Plans,
this gives access onto the Test Plans feature,
along with the basic plan.
You have stakeholder access.
This is free access for a user
but has certain limitations.
Here you have limited access onto Azure Boards
and Azure Pipelines,
and you don't have any access onto code repositories.
And if a user has a Visual Studio subscription,
they get access onto the Azure DevOps set of tools
based on the subscription that is assigned onto the user.
So again, if you actually revisit the pricing page
when it comes onto Azure DevOps services,
for the basic plan,
which we talked about the first thing,
the basic access,
you get the first five users for free.
So we can use most of the features
within Azure DevOps, the suite of tools
with the use of the basic plan.
We get five users for free.
So that's the meaning of having the basic plan in place.
If you want to use the Test Plans feature,
you have a 30-day free trial
but otherwise, it is $53 per user per month.
And I said you have stakeholder,
which is kind of a free tier
but again, it has limited access
and you have Visual Studio as a subscription.
Now, in order to add a user,
the user needs to have a Microsoft account in place
or it can be a GitHub user.
Now, if you have an existing email address,
either it could be based on a Gmail account
or if you have an Outlook account,
you can basically create a Microsoft account out of that.
Here is a page which documents
how to create a new Microsoft account.
Again, it's free of cost.
You can always go ahead and create a Microsoft account.
If you go on to account.microsoft.com here,
so by default, it is logging and has the account
that I'm using for my Azure DevOps project.
You can sign in with a different account here.
And under no account, you can hit on create one.
And this will now go through the process
of creating a new Microsoft account.
All you can do is to provide an existing email address.
So I said if you have a Gmail account in place,
you can go ahead and use that
to create a Microsoft account.
Now, I already have a Microsoft account in place
that's based on a Gmail account.
So the user account name is tocuser1arith@gmail.com.
So I've gone ahead and logged into the Gmail account
having my inbox in place
but I said I've already gone through the process
of creating a Microsoft account out of that Gmail account.
Now, I wanna add that as a user
onto my Azure DevOps project.
For that, I'm first gonna go onto my organization.
I'll click on organization settings.
I'll go on to users.
I'll add users.
I'll add the email address
of tocuserarith@gmail.com.
In the access level, I'm gonna choose basic.
So I told you, we get five users for free
when it comes onto basic.
So I'll leave it as it is.
And I'll add it onto my Agile project.
In terms of the groups,
we are adding the user onto the project contributor group.
So the different security groups
within your project and actually within your organization.
At the moment, I'll leave it as it is
and let me click on Add.
We now have this user in place.
Now, after a few seconds,
I'll actually get an email on that tocuser1arith@gmail.com
saying that I've been invited
onto an Azure DevOps organization.
I can click on Join Now.
What I'll do is I'll just take the URL.
I'm gonna go on to another browser.
I'm going on to the Edge browser on my machine
and then I'll paste in this link.
So now I'll sign in as tocuser1.
So I said I've created a Microsoft account out
of this Gmail account.
Go onto next.
I'll enter my password.
And now I can see the Agile project in place.
I can only see this project
because I've only given access onto this project
within my organization.
So I've not done this from within the Chrome browser
because here I'm still logged in
as the admin, basically the account
that I've used for setting up Azure DevOps
in the first place.
That's why I'm using another browser
so that I can log in as the other user.
So now we have that user assigned
on to our project.
I can now go back on to my Agile project.
Can go on to Boards.
So let me go on to a task.
I can now assign it on to tocuser1.
I'll just hit on search.
Basically hit on the Enter button to search
and then choose that user and click on Save.
That should now be assigned on to tocuser1.
If I go on to the Edge browser,
if I go on to the Agile project,
I can see stats about the project.
If I go on to the work items here,
here I can filter out on those
that are just assigned on to me.
So in this chapter,
I wanna show you how you can add a user
that's based on a Microsoft account
you've added onto your project
and now you can start assigning work items onto that user.
That user will then log in,
work on that work item
and then change the status accordingly.
So as the user, if I have started working
on this work item,
I can change the state onto active and click on Save
because now we are working on this work item.
Now, please note that you can also integrate Azure DevOps
with Azure Active Directory.
Azure Active Directory is an identity provider
in which you can actually define your users.
You can actually pick up users defined
in Azure AD instead
of actually choosing the separate Microsoft accounts.
But in this chapter wanna show you
how you can add a user based on a Microsoft account.

--- Using Dashboards ---

(funky music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
let's see how we can work with dashboards.
That's something that's available in Azure Boards.
The entire purpose of dashboards is to provide
some sort of customizable interactive sign board
that helps to provide real-time information.
Here you can create charts based on work items.
You can have widgets in place
that actually display configurable information
and charts on the dashboard,
and you can have in-context reports as well.
These are system charts based on specific services.
Now, in order to showcase how this is done,
all done is for the task here.
If I go onto task,
I've added some effort in hours
when it comes on the estimate
and how much is remaining,
and how much is completed.
So I have done this for all of the tasks.
Right, so normally for your task,
you will have on the estimate
of the number of hours that might be required
to complete this particular task,
and how much is remaining,
and how much is completed.
Now once you have this for your tasks,
you can go onto the overview here
and you have something known has dashboards.
You have these summary of the project
wherein you can have your project description
and you can have stats about your project.
You can even see the members.
If you go onto dashboards,
here you can create a dashboard that has widgets.
Let me go ahead and add a widget.
Now, by default there is a dashboard,
an overview dashboard
when it comes onto your project,
but you can create new dashboards as well.
Maybe go ahead and add a widget
onto this project dashboard.
Here, there are different widgets in place,
and each of these widgets serves a different purpose.
For example, if I take
a widget of sprint burned out,
this is a burn down chart
for the work of a particular team
in a single iteration.
Let me click on Add.
Once we add this,
we can customize it.
Here for the chart,
if you scroll onto the right
you can choose the configure button,
and you can configure this chart accordingly.
So this is based on the task in the backlog.
If I click on Done editing,
you can see the remaining work is 59.
So this is the 59 hours
that I added the cumulative hours
I've added for my task.
And then you can see over time.
So currently it's just showing you an ideal trend.
So this should start from remaining of 59 hours.
But over time, once a sprint is complete,
it should be zero
because you should have completed
all of the tasks that is part of the sprint.
So you can use these in-built widgets
to kind of visualize
how your team is actually performing
with the help of the dashboard.
If you go onto the documentation,
you will see the different widgets that are available.
Some of the important ones are
you have the burn down chart.
This chart focuses on the remaining work
within a specified period of time.
Then you have the cycle time chart.
This defines the time taken to close a work item
after the work on it has started.
You have the lead time.
This defines the time taken to close a work item
after it was created.
And you have velocity.
This tracks the team capacity
to deliver work sprint after sprint.
So in the chapter I wanna show you
the concept of dashboards
and how you can add widgets onto the dashboard itself.

--- Using Queries ---

(energetic rock music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I want to go through
the queries part that's available
as part of Azure Boards.
Here you can actually create queries
based on different fields of your work items.
So, before that, let me go on to "Work Items".
So, better yet, let me actually go on to my "Boards".
And here for the user story, let me go ahead and add a task.
(computer keyboard sound)
I'll just hit on "Enter".
Let me add another task.
(computer keyboard sound)
And then, I'll just hit on the "escape" button,
so we only have two tasks in place.
Let me go over onto these tasks.
Let me just change the priority onto "Three".
I'll do a "Save" and "Close".
(computer keyboard sound)
So, this is kind of a quick create of a task
and you can go on each individual task
to change the property of the task itself.
Let me go onto the queries.
Now, Let's say that you want to create a query
where in the "Work Item Type",
let me go ahead and just hide this for the moment
so we have a better view;
Where in the "Work Item Type" is a task.
So, I scroll down.
There should be task here.
And here, in the fields we can decide
what field to base a query on,
or choose the state,
if any task is in the new state.
And let me add another clause.
If the priority
is less than or equal to two,
let me go and run this query.
So, I can see there are two tasks
that are matching this particular description.
I had another task
but, because the state of that,
is not new, but is active,
that's why it's not showing up here.
Let's say that I want to know
what are the tasks that have a high priority.
Let's say, in our case, a high priority
means a value of "One",
when it comes onto the priority field.
So, I will know those work items,
which have a priority of, let's say,
less than two, and have not yet been started on.
I wanna keep track of these particular work items.
I can create a query based on these work items.
I can then save the query.
When I save the query,
I have two folders,
something known as "My Queries"
and "Shared Queries".
At the moment I'll leave it as "My Queries".
So, this is for me as a user.
And I'm logged in, has tech support 4,000,
that's the admin account for Azure DevOps.
Let me give a name here,
and let me hit on "OK".
And now we can run this query at any point in time.
If you go onto "Charts" here,
I can create a new "Chart".
This can be based on the query itself.
So, we can now also visualize
the results of that particular query.
I can group by, let's say, the state,
and I can see my chart in place.
I can, basically, choose a chart type
and then hit on "OK".
So, not only can we see also the results
of a particular query,
but we can see a visualization as well.
So, if you wanna query work items,
you know, based on certain criteria,
you can use the query section that's available here.

--- Seeing dashboards as another user ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in this chapter,
I wanna show you how you can add this chart
that we had created based
on a query in our prior chapter onto our dashboard.
Remember, that we had created a dashboard.
If I expand to show more information.
If I go onto the over view I, I mean
we already had a print dashboard in place.
We add a widget onto the dashboard.
Now, as the other user in my Edge browser.
If I go on to Overview and choose Dashboards,
I can see My Team Dashboard over here.
I should now be able, Let me go back, on.
Let me go back onto My Queries.
I can go onto my task, High Priority Query.
If I go onto charts,
let me go ahead and just write this again.
You know, there is a facility
in which we can also add this chart onto the dashboard.
So, in addition to adding our widgets, the inbuilt widgets,
we can also add charts.
The way that we can do this is, we have to ensure
that our query, that's here, we click on Edit.
We have to save this in Shared Queries Folder.
By saving it in the Shared Queries Folder,
this means that this can also be used by other users
within the project.
Where we go ahead and hit on, Okay
Once this is done.
Now, if I go onto charts, and choose a context menu,
you can see we have the ability to now add it
onto the dashboard.
I can select the Team Dashboard, hit on, Okay.
If I go onto my project, go onto the Dashboards,
the Team Dashboard.
If I scroll down, I can see my chart in place.
If I go onto the other user, let me hit on Refresh.
If I scroll down, I can see the chart in place.
Also, if you go onto the Queries,
If I choose All, I can see
under the Shared Queries Folder, the task High Priority.
I can go onto this and I can run the query accordingly.
This is only because, we had saved the query
under the Shared Queries Folder.
So, you have My Queries.
This is basically you as a user.
If you want to create your own queries,
you know, where you want to query for certain work items
you can go ahead, and do that.
But if you have similar queries that need to be used
by users across the project,
you can go ahead, and save it as Shared Queries.

--- Understanding permissions ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter
I briefly wanna show you where you can see
the built-in security groups that are available
for your DevOps project and for your DevOps organization.
And then, in the next two chapters,
I'll show you examples where it comes onto permissions.
Now, when we added a user
onto our Azure DevOps organization,
we had something known as the access level, remember?
That was the basic, or you are the stakeholder,
or you had Visual Studio.
And then, when we are assigning it onto the project,
it was added onto a specific security group.
Now, these built-in security groups
have some permissions that are assigned.
You have different permissions that can be assigned
either at the organization level, at the project level,
or at the object level.
Here you have the different security groups
that are part of a project
and the different security groups
that are part of an organization.
Here, if I go onto my project settings,
if you go onto permissions,
here you will see the different built-in groups.
You will see a description about the group.
In terms of the contributor.
You can see our TOC user one,
and we have the Agile project team that has been added
as part of this contributor group.
There is the default project team also in place.
If you go onto use, you can see the users.
Now, if you go onto let's say the contributor group,
you will see what are the different permissions.
In place of these are permissions that have been assigned
onto this particular group.
Normally a not set permission is equivalent
to a denied permission.
That means, if the user is part of this particular group,
they won't have these permissions in place.
You can then see the members of the particular group.
If this group is a member of another group,
that is also possible.
If I then go onto my organization
I can go onto my organization
if I go onto organization settings.
Here also, we have something
known as permissions under security.
You will see groups now
and these also have their own set of permissions.
These are at the organization level.
And remember,
you have multiple projects under an organization.
So in this chapter,
just want to let you know
that you have these different project permissions in place
and you have different organization settings in place.

--- Azure DevOps query permissions ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Now just to showcase the use of permissions,
I will talk about query permissions.
So in the last chapter I had shown you
there were different groups in place, security groups.
These are the in-built security groups.
You have them at the project level
and you have them at the organization level.
Now, even you might not have a requirement to add a user,
you know, onto security group at the project level.
Because maybe you just want a user to have the ability
to manage queries that have been defined in Azure Boards.
Now, does that mean that you have to add a user
onto a built-in security group
that might give extra permissions for the user?
Because normally, in terms of security,
you normally only want to assign permissions to users,
those which they require and not extra permissions.
In this chapter, wanna show you how you can actually do this
with an example of query based permissions.
We had already seen how to create a query
and add it onto the shared query's folder.
So when it comes onto query permission,
now, all users except those that are only assigned
onto the readers group can actually create
and edit their own queries.
They can also save queries under the My Queries folder.
But if you want to basically create and edit queries
and folders under shared queries,
you need to be part or a member
of the project administrators group.
Also, for saving under shared queries
you need to have the basic access level or higher.
But in this chapter, I wanna show you that
if you just want to assign permissions for a user
onto a particular shared query,
how that can be achieved.
Because maybe you don't want to add the user
as part of the project administrators group.
So just as an example,
earlier on,
if I go onto my organization and if I go onto my project,
if I go onto queries,
if I go onto all,
we had this shared query, this task high at priority.
If I go onto my Edge browser wherein I am logged in
as TOC User-1.
Let me go onto the editor.
Let me see if I can make a change onto the priority
and click on save query.
So that's not possible.
It's saying that you don't have right permissions
for this particular query.
What we can do is, again, if we go back as our admin account
for these shared queries, if I go onto more actions,
see context menu, I can choose security,
the security option.
Here again, we have the different groups
but let me search for TOC User-1 specifically.
And these are the permissions that we can assign
just for TOC user-1, just for this particular shared query.
I can give the contribute permission as allow
and that's it, we are done.
Now, if I go back here
and let me click on save Query again, now it's done.
It has changed the priority of the query.
And this was because we had given specific permissions
onto this shared query itself.
So in this chapter, just wanted to give an example
on how you can assign permissions
onto certain aspects when it comes onto Azure Boards.

--- Azure DevOps Dashboard permissions ---

(upbeat music plays)
Instructor: In this chapter,
I want to give another example
when it comes onto permissions,
and then when it comes onto dashboard permissions.
Now again, for dashboard permissions,
by default dashboards are viewable
by all members that are part
of the project Valid Users Group.
Members of the project Administrator Group
can set the default dashboard permissions for the teams.
And in order to add, edit and manage a team dashboard,
you must also have the basic access or greater.
Now, when it comes on Dashboard,
so here I'm logged in as my admin account,
If I go onto Project Settings,
here there should be a setting when it comes
onto Dashboards.
This is like an overall setting
wherein you are giving the ability to create dashboards,
edit dashboards,
and delete dashboards.
That's one setting.
Now, apart from that,
if as this user,
if I go onto the (indistinct),
and if I go onto Dashboards,
when it comes onto the team dashboard,
I have this Edit option in place.
But if I go as the user,
let me go on Dashboards,
I'll just hide this.
I don't have the Edit option in place
for this particular dashboard.
What we can do is,
as the admin account,
I can click on Manage Dashboard Settings.
I can scroll down,
click on Manage Permissions For This Dashboard.
Again, similar concept.
I'll choose my user in terms of editing the dashboard.
I'll click on Allow,
and again, we are done.
But if I go onto this user,
my TOC user let me refresh this entire page.
Now you can see I have the Edit option place.
I just wanna give another example when it comes
onto permissions that are available.

--- Azure DevOps - Wiki ---

(energetic intro music)
Instructor: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through the Project Wiki feature
that is available.
A DevOps project can have a Wiki.
The Wiki can be used to share information
the team so that they can understand
and contribute onto the project.
The Project Wiki use a Git repository as the backend.
You need to have at least the basic access
to create and modify a Wiki.
Members who are part of the Congress Security Group
can add and edit Wiki pages.
Let me go ahead and show you now
how we can easily add a project Wiki
onto the project itself.
As my admin here, I can actually go onto the Wiki section.
I can create a project Wiki.
You can also publish code as Wiki as well.
In that case, you'd have a Git repository in place.
Let me go ahead and create the project Wiki
and you can add details about the project here.
So not making that complicated and I can copy this.
I can place it here.
On the right hand side, you will see how it will look like.
This is basically the mark-down language.
That's given here. I can highlight this.
I can, for example change it to header two
and it will change accordingly here.
And then you can click on save.
I can then hit on close.
So we just have like, you know,
a simple page which has more information
about the project itself and then has the user.
I can go onto Wiki and again,
I will see the information here.
And you can create multiple subpages under the Wiki as well.
So I can add a subpage.
I can say that this is the login page.
So there's information
about how the login page should probably look like.
So you can have probably the design screens here
just to help the users understand
on how the login page should look like.
I can click on save, (inaudible) close.
Add another sub page.
Job postings page.
Click on save.
Choose close.
And if you want to go ahead
and change the navigation that comes onto the pages
you can just simply drag and drop.
And look for any broken Wiki page links.
And then I can hit on move.
So you can move the pages very easily
just by drag and drop.
This chapter, just wanna kind of quickly go through
this Wiki feature that is available
as part of, as your DevOps.

--- Azure DevOps - Delivery plans ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter,
I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to one option that's available
as part of Azure Bots, and that's your delivery plans.
Let me go ahead and just create a new plan.
This is just another way of visualizing your work.
I'll create a new plan.
(man typing)
I'll just give a plan name.
You can choose a project.
You can choose a team.
You can select your backlog.
You can choose your user stories
and you can hit on create
and it'll give you kind of a timeline, right?
This is today
and these are the stories that need to be exited
within a particular sprint.
So you are just getting kind of a Gantt chart basically
of your user stories over time.
Just gonna quickly go through this feature
that is available.

--- Azure Boards - Integration with Microsoft Teams ---

(upbeat music playing)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter I just wanna show you
that there is an integration
between Azure Boards and Microsoft Teams.
So as a communication platform
you might be using Microsoft Teams in your organization
and if you want to link that onto Azure Boards,
that is possible.
Now obviously in your organization you would already
have Microsoft Teams in place wherever implemented.
You would have a user account
in which you could actually make use of Microsoft Teams.
Now the way that I actually tried this out,
so I will show you the steps that I have performed.
Firstly, I want to sign up for Microsoft Teams.
You can do this for free.
Here if you go onto Microsoft Teams
you can sign up for free.
When you sign up for free,
you need to have an account in place.
Again, a Microsoft account.
But this needs to be a work account.
This can't be like the one I'm using
like TechSupport4000@gmail.com.
The way that you can accomplish this is,
if you already have an Azure account in place,
I'm assuming mostly you might be having one,
because in order to go for AZ-400
you should first done AZ-104 has an exam
or AZ-204.
And in that you had to create an Azure account,
and you can always create an Azure free account.
When you go onto Azure account
you can go onto Azure Active Directory.
In Azure Active Directory, you can go
onto users and you can create a new user.
When creating a new user, you can give a username.
It can be @ your domain.
So I'm using the same account, which I've logged in
onto my as your DevOps account,
and onto my Azure portal.
It's the same account.
But here I'm just creating a new user.
So I had gone ahead
and create a new user known as Teams account.
Then I use this user principle name
to basically sign up for Microsoft Teams.
In that some of the screens that I had was
it basically asked me what do I want to use Teams for?
So I just chose for work and organizations,
and then I added my details.
Again, I said I used my other account
which the account I just created here.
That is my team's account,
@Techsupport4000 gmail.microsoft.com.
You're just showing you the screens that I went for.
And then once I registered for Microsoft Teams
I click on Get Windows app to go ahead and install.
Microsoft Teams has an app here.
I said in your organization, if you're already
using Microsoft Teams,
then this should not be an issue.
You'll be having the app in place
and you'll be able to log into the app.
But in case if you are trying this out on your own machine.
So I said the steps are,
if you have as Azure account,
go ahead and create a new user
and then use that user details
to sign up for Microsoft Teams.
Once you've signed up
you will have the option to download the app
on your machine.
And once you install and login,
you'll have Microsoft Teams in place.
The next step.
In Microsoft Teams we have to create a team.
I'll just create a simple project team.
I'll choose from scratch.
This will be public.
I'll just give a quick name,
and then hit on create.
It's now going ahead and creating a team.
We can then link this team with our project
in a Azure DevOps.
This is done,
I can skip adding members onto the project team.
Next,
let me go,
onto,
Azure DevOps.
This is has my admin user.
Here to go onto your organization.
Here go onto organization settings.
In security,
go onto policies
and turn off third party application access via O-Alt.
Because Microsoft Teams will authorize itself
via the use of O-Alt,
When it comes onto our Azure DevOps service.
Next, let me go onto my project.
My Agile project.
Let me go onto project settings.
Let me go on to permissions.
When it comes onto the project administrators.
I go onto members.
Let me add TLC user one,
as the project administrator.
I'll click on save.
I said I'm just doing this to showcase
how do you link up Azure boards initially
when it comes onto Microsoft Teams.
Once I added this in place,
the next step is in Microsoft Teams,
you have to install the app of Azure boards.
When you go onto apps, you can search for Azure boards.
You can click on the app.
Here it's just giving me the option of open.
For you it might give you an option of first installing it.
So first go ahead and install it
and then you can click on open.
Here I'll choose to add it to a team.
I'll choose my project team.
I'll click on set up a bot.
Once this is done,
I'll just hit the escape button
and you'll see the bot now in place,
when it comes onto your team.
I just cancel this.
Then you can start a new conversation
by adding commands here.
If you wanna see how to use Azure boards in Microsoft Teams
there is this documentation link in which you can see
the different commands.
So let me do @ Azure boards here.
@
Azure boards.
I'll just choose this.
I'll select a command.
Let me do a sign in,
and let me send this request now.
So now it's saying your only signed in
onto a Azure Boards as TLC user one.
If not, it'll actually give you a prompt
when you can sign in as TLC user one.
So please note that it's little bit complicated.
Here in terms of teams,
I am signing as Teams account,
a user I defined in a Azure Active Directory,
and here I am signing in onto a Azure Boards
as user defined in my project.
I said the reason I'm doing this is I'm trying to
implement all of this as a normal user.
I said in your company will have all
of the setup already in place.
And once you are signed in
let me hit on a new conversation.
Let me do a Azure boards again.
This time I want to link it onto a project.
What is my project?
So if I go on to work items,
I can take this part of the URL.
It's Dev.azure.com/my organization name
/my project name.
Let me again send the request.
So the link is done.
Now please note that if you get any sort of error
it could probably be because
we have not given those permissions
or we've not done those settings,
which I'd shown early on.
We did one setting from an organization level
and we added our TLC user
as part of a security group within our project.
Next, we can click on add a subscription.
So we need to subscribe onto an event,
that's occurring in as Azure boards.
So we can choose the event.
So whenever, let's say a work item is created,
I'll go onto next.
I can choose my area path,
the work item type.
So leave everything as it is,
and let me click on submit.
So it's added the subscription.
Once it's done,
I'll just close the screen here.
Now here let me go onto boards.
What a user story here,
let me create a new task.
(instructor typing on keyboard)
Just hit on enter,
and then hit on escape on my keyboard.
So I've added a task.
If I go onto Microsoft Teams,
you will see you've got a notification
from Azure boards that a task has been created.
So in this chapter, just wanna kind of show you
that you have this integration in place when it comes
onto Microsoft Teams and when it comes onto Azure boards.

--- Trying out another project ---

-: Now just as an exercise,
why don't you all create a new project
within the Azure DevOps organization?
Base it on the process model of Scrum
and then see what you can do within the project.
Can you create user stories
or is there something else that actually relates
onto user stories within Scrum?
Within Scrum process for as your DevOps project
or to say can you assign a user onto your project?
And then once you're done,
see if you can actually go ahead
and delete the project.
So just as an example,
let me go ahead and actually create a new project.
I'll go on to my organization.
And let me create a new project.
I'll name this as Scrum project.
I'll just scroll down again
the visibility is private.
In the advanced section,
let me go ahead and choose the work item process
as Scrum and hit on create.
This will create our new project.
Now if I go onto the boards,
let's see what I can create as a work item.
So I can still create an epic.
I can see that I can't create a user story.
You know, when you want to create a user story
you can actually create something known
as a product backlog item.
This actually also correlates onto functionality
that the user wants to see in their application.
When you're looking at working with epics
you can work with either epics
or you can work with features.
They are both taken on the same level.
When you create a product backlog
it can be part of either a feature or an epic
and then you have tasks that can be part
of the product backlog.
So just wanna like, you know, let you know that based
on the work item process that use, you will see
different work items.
And then again, you have your boards, you have
your backlogs, you have your splits.
So these all remain the same.
If you wanna give access to this project onto other users
you can go onto the project settings.
If you go onto the teams, go onto the Scrum project team.
If I click on add, since the OC user one
is now part of the organization,
I can assign the user onto this project.
And then once you're done, if you want to go ahead
and delete the project
again, go onto project settings,
go onto the overview, scroll down.
Here, you can see that you could also enable or disable
services that you give as part of the Azure DevOps account.
Yeah, we are allowing access onto all of the services.
And then you can go ahead and delete the project.
You type the project name and then hit on delete.
So this wanted you all to explore the other aspects
available when it comes on
to creating projects in a Azure DevOps organization.

--- What is source control ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
So, now before we go into the working of the Git software.
So, I told you, first we look at the working of Git
then we look at the working of GitHub,
and then as your repos.
For the benefit of those students
who are not familiar with the version control system,
I wanna give you what is a core benefit
of having a tool when it comes onto source control.
A version control system as the name does imply,
is used for maintaining different versions
of your application.
A version system as the name does imply,
helps to maintain different version for your files.
For example, you might have three files on your system.
When you create the file it'll be in its original version,
it could be version one.
Then let's say you make a change onto file B.
Then it'll actually create a newer version of that file
because you have changed the contents of the file
and so on and so forth.
In case if you didn't have
a version control system in place,
and you want to maintain versions of your files,
you might then need to create folders
to actually indicate the different versions
of the files itself.
And this is a painstaking process
and it's not easy to maintain
once your files starts to grow,
once the number of people who start working
on the files also starts to grow.
Hence, you need some sort of tool
to maintain different versions of your files.
And it also helps to revert back onto a prior version.
And then using a version control tool is very important
when it comes onto maintaining application code.
Let's say you have a set of developers
who are working on application code,
and they have made a number of changes onto the code itself.
Let's say one of the developers has actually made a mistake
and they want to go back onto a previous change.
How can they do that?
They can do that with the help of a version control tool.
With the help of that version control tool
they can actually go back onto a previous change,
get back the code at that point in time.
So in this chapter
I just first initially want to give the core benefit
of having a version control tool in place.
We are gonna look at subsequent chapters
on how do we work with Git as a software
which is the most popular tool when it comes
onto source code version control.

--- What is Git ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the last chapter
I just gave a brief introduction
when it came on to our version control system.
Now in this chapter, I just wanna go through
why we are gonna be using Git as a source control tool.
So Git is the most popular used version control system.
So a lot of companies actually employ the use of Git
in one form or the other
when it comes on to source code version control.
And this is primary because of its distribute nature.
So Git has become famous because it has a lot of features.
One of them is the distribute nature
when it comes on to the usage of Git.
Now, there are other version control systems
that behave in a different fashion.
There is a version control system
that's known as Subversion.
Now when using this particular version control system,
the developers would have a client
installed on their system.
There will be a central server
that will be hosting the Subversion server software.
And it would also host, let's say the application code.
Now, whenever a developer needs to make a change on to,
let's say a module within the application code
or certain files, they would perform the operation
of first checkout the files that are required.
The checkout would be done on their local system.
Then changes would be made on to the code.
And once that is done, they could check in the code again
with the required changes on to the server.
Then when another developer
needs to go and make a modification on to the code,
again, they would check out the required files
from the central server,
make the change and then check in the code again.
One of the drawbacks when it comes on to using
this sort of centralized system
is if the central server were to go down,
then developers would not have the ability
to code and check out the files that are required.
And that's why we have Git,
which is a distributed system,
wherein each developer,
they would also have the Git client tool installed
but they could go ahead and have their own copy
of the application code and make changes as required,
and Git would maintain the versioning
when it came on to the application code.
And apart from that, Git also has better overall performance
and it can easily manage aspects
such as creating branches, et cetera.
Now in the next chapter,
we're gonna go ahead and see how we can install Git.

--- Let's install git ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in this chapter,
we are gonna go ahead and install the Git software.
So on a client machine,
if you want to start working with Git
or using Git for version control,
you have to go ahead and first of all
install the tool on your local machine.
Now Git is available on Windows platform,
on Mac OS, and even on Linux.
Currently I'm on a Windows system.
I can go ahead and download
the latest version for Windows here.
I'll click on the download button,
I'll click here to download the latest version
that is the 64-bit version on my machine.
I'll choose Keep.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
During the installation,
it'll ask you to configure different options.
Once I have the exe in place,
let me go ahead and click on this
to start the installation process.
I'll accept the general public license, go onto next.
I'll accept the installation folder.
Go onto next.
Here it's asking me the components
that need to be installed.
I'll leave everything as it is and I'll go onto next.
Go onto next.
In terms of using the default editor
to be used by Git,
I'm gonna choose Visual Studio Code
because I normally use Visual Studio Code
as my go to editor when building different types of files.
So I'll use Visual Studio Code.
I'll go onto next.
In terms of the name of the initial branch
that is created for new repositories,
it uses a default branch name of master
but I will override this and give a default branch name
for all new repositories as main.
Go onto next.
In terms of using Git from the command line,
I'll leave it as it is,
go onto next.
I'll leave this also as it is.
This also is fine.
Using the Windows style checkout.
Go onto next.
In terms of the default behavior of a Git pull,
I'll also leave this as it is.
In terms of the credential helper,
I can use the Git Credential manager.
Now what this does is it actually helps
to store your Git credentials.
So instead of actually entering
your Git credentials every time.
For example, let's say you're pushing code onto GitHub
that is the central repository
that's available on the internet.
They also need a username and a password
to log into GitHub for pushing your code.
During the first time, it'll ask you for the credentials
for your GitHub account,
but then after that
when you want to push code again,
it'll make use of the Git Credential Manager
and use the credentials which you have used before.
So instead of actually asking you for the credentials
over and over again,
it can be managed by the credential manager.
This is one use of using the Git Credential Manager.
So I'll leave this as it is.
Go onto next, this is also fine.
I won't enable at the moment any experimental features
and I'll hit on install.
It's now installing the Git client software
on my local machine.
Once this is done, I can click on finish.
And after the installation,
if you open up Command Prompt on your local machine,
and if you try the command of git version
it'll tell you what is the current version
of Git installed on your local system.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter
wherein we've gone ahead with the installation of Git.

--- Let's start working with Git ---

(upbeat intro music)
-: So, in the last chapter,
we had gone ahead with the installation of Git.
Now in this chapter, let's start working with Git itself.
Now, I'm just gonna be using Visual Studio Code,
when it comes onto building simple files.
I told you, I use this as my go-to editor,
when I'm working with different types of files.
This is a free tool, that's available.
You can go ahead and download and install Visual Studio Code
on your Windows machine,
on your Mac OS machine, or even on Linux.
I've already gone ahead.
I have downloaded Visual Studio Code.
We can go ahead, and download, and install it.
It's a very simple installation.
Once you've install Visual Studio,
you can go ahead and open up the tool.
Now, on my local machine, on the C drive,
I create a simple folder, known as a working folder.
It's an empty folder.
From Visual Studio Code, I'm gonna click on, Open Folder.
I'm gonna choose that working folder,
and hit on Select Folder.
I'm gonna click this icon,
to create a simple text based file.
I'll name this as fileA.txt.
I'll say this is fileA.
Let me go ahead and save this.
I'll create another file.
I'll name this as fileB.txt.
I'll say this is FileB.
When it comes onto showing the working of Git,
we're gonna start simple.
They're gonna see how to version control
simple text based files
because the entire purpose, I said,
is to understand the working of Git itself.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
If you are not using a version control software,
and, let's say, you made a change onto the file.
This is a change.
And now, you want to go back onto the previous version
of this file.
So I told you, if you were to do this manually,
you might maybe append a version number onto the file
or you might start reading different folders
with the version number,
and then store the files accordingly.
But we wanna make this as simple as possible
with the use of a version control tool.
So, let me go ahead and, first of all,
delete this statement.
So we have, this is fileB.
Let me go ahead and save this.
So now, once you have the files in place,
I can go onto the terminal, from within Visual Studio Code.
I can choose the option of creating a new terminal.
This will actually launch PowerShell
from within Visual Studio Code.
But please note that you can also execute
all of your Git commands from within Command Prompt itself.
I'm using Visual Studio Code
because it gives me the convenience of working with my files
and at the same time working with a terminal.
We are in our working directory.
If I do a directory listing,
I can see both of my files in place.
FileA.txt and fileB.txt.
Now, in order to use the Git software,
to version control our files,
we first need to initialize something known as
an empty Git Repository.
So the way we do that is, by now using Git based commands.
The command we are using here, is Git Init,
to initialize an empty Git Repository.
Let me go ahead and hit on enter.
It has gone ahead and given an output saying,
it has initialize an empty Git Repository.
You will also note now, from within Visual Studio,
you have, kind of, this symbol next to the file.
Visual Studio has now understood that this folder
is now part of a Git Repository
and these symbols are telling you
that these particular files are not being tracked
by Git as part of the Git Repository.
Currently, what we have done is, we have only initialized
something known as an empty Git Repository.
Our files are still not being version controlled
at the moment, as part of Git.
There is a workflow in place, in which we can start ensuring
that Git actually tracks the different versions
of our files.
In this chapter, I just wanna, kind of,
start off with the creation of the files,
that we are going to version control,
and how do we initialize an empty Git Repository.
Before we mark an end onto this chapter,
I want to execute two more commands.
This is when it comes to configuring the username
and email for Git.
By performing this step, you can easily track
who is the person that's actually working
with the Git Repositories on this particular system.
We can do this with the command of, Git Config.
We specify,
a global username.
(keyboard keys clicking)
And we can use the same command
to specify an email address.
So now, we've configured both the username
and the email, when it comes onto
the global Git Configuration.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter,
wherein we've done the initialization of our Git Repository.

--- Adding to the git repository ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in our prior chapter,
we are gone ahead and initialize an empty Git repository.
This was within our working directory
that contain our files
file artxt and file brtxt.
But at this point in time, these files are still
not being version controlled by the Git software.
We still need to go it
and issue further commands and it comes
onto ensuring that these files get tracked by Git.
I said all we have done now is to create
an empty Git repository.
Now once you initialize an empty Git repository
what it does is it creates a Git folder.
This is like a local database within Git itself
that helps to maintain the entire history
when it comes onto the changes for your files.
So you actually go on to folder explorer.
If you go on to your working folder
you can see file artxt and file brtxt.
If I click on the view option,
and if I choose to see the hidden items,
you can see this .git folder in place,
this is actually a hidden folder.
And I say this is kind of a flat-file database
which will help now in the tracking
of your files within this particular folder.
Now, once we have initialized the empty repository,
the next step is to kind of add our files onto Git
so that Git can actually track the different versions
of these files.
The first command that we to issue
for this particular purpose is a git add command.
Now the git add command can be used to add these files
onto something known as a staging area.
Before you add the files
onto your Git repository for tracking purposes,
you can actually go ahead and stage your files.
So let's go ahead and issue this command.
Let me just scale the screen.
Let me do a git add.
And if I just put the dot here,
this means that please go ahead
and add all the files, currently that I have,
onto my staging area.
This is done.
If you issue another command known as git status.
This is going to give you the current status
of your working directory.
Here it's telling you that you have two files in place,
file artxt and file brtxt.
These are changes that need to be committed.
And by committed, it means it needs to be committed
onto the Git repository.
Please know that again
your Git repository is being maintained,
has a database within this working folder itself.
You will also see that the symbol now
for your files has also changed because they have now moved
from kind of your working area
onto something known as a staging area.
And again, please note that all of this is happening again
within your working directory.
This movement from the working area onto the staging area
and then finally onto the Git repository
is being managed internally by the Git software.
Now, if you want these files to be finally tracked by Git,
we have to use the command of git commit.
So currently, I said, we have our files.
Let's denote version one has the initial versions
of our files.
This is within our working directory.
At the same time, it is also in a staging area.
We want to now move these files onto our Git repository.
We can do this with a git commit command.
I can issue the git commit command and we can add a message.
It's always good to add meaningful messages
for each commit that you make onto the Git repository.
(keyboard keys clicking)
I'll give a commit message and let me hit on Enter.
So now it has gone ahead
and add those files onto the Git repository.
If I now do a git status, you will see that you are still
on the main branch and you have nothing to commit.
So what has happened internally is your files now
are present both in your working directory.
They are still in your staging area, which you can't see.
I said this is managed internally by Git,
and now your files are also in the Git repository
and are being tracked by Git now.
Right, so for now, let's mark an end onto this chapter.
Wherein, we have performed the next step
of ensuring that our files are now being tracked
by Git within our repository.

--- Making changes to a file ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in our prior chapter,
we had made sure that Git is now tracking
the versions of our files.
Let's make now a change onto a file.
For file a.txt, let me make a change.
(keyboard clatters)
Let me go ahead and save this.
Again, a different annotation for your file
has come up within Visual Studio Code.
The M signifies that the file has been modified.
If I now issue the command of, again, Git Status
it is telling you that file A has been modified.
And if you now want to ensure
that you track the version,
the newer version of this modified file,
we have to commit it accordingly.
The first step again is to transfer our file
onto the staging area.
So, currently internally we have made a change onto file A.
Let's denote this as version two.
Please note that versioning is done on the Git level.
Here, just for the sake of simplicity,
I'm just saying that or denoting version two
as a changed version for the file.
So currently in our working directory,
we have a newer version of file A.
We now need to ensure that this version
moves onto our staging area.
And what is the command that we'll issue for this?
It's the Git Add command.
The Git Add command will move this newer version of our file
or basically the modified file onto the staging area.
From within Visual Studio Code,
I can do a Git Add.
I can now actually specify the file itself
that needs to be added onto the staging area.
So either you could add all of your files
onto a staging area,
you could move a particular file onto the staging area.
If you wanna move, let's say all of your txt-based files,
so you can have patterns as well.
But here, I just want to add file A onto the staging area.
Next, we need to commit the changes that we have made
onto file A onto our Git repository.
And for this,
we are going to issue the command of Git Commit.
And I'll give a message.
(keyboard clattering)
Let me hit on Enter.
It is now ensured that the changes for file A
are committed onto our Git repository.
If I do a Git Status,
again, we can see that we are on a main branch
and there is nothing to commit.
So, let's mark an end onto this chapter
wherein we have made changes onto a particular file
and we've in short, commit those changes
onto our Git repository.

--- Quick note on the commands ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, if you might be asking Alan,
from where are you getting these Git based commands?
So if you go on to the documentation page
where it comes on to Git itself,
you have a reference for all of the commands.
It comes on to the usage of Git.
If you go onto the main Git command
which we'll be working on,
there are a lot of options
that you can actually pass onto the Git command itself.
For example, if I find for the keyword of Commit.
So we are looking at Git Commit that is used
to record all the changes onto the repository.
So if you go on to Git Commit,
you will see a description about this command itself.
You can refer on to the Git documentation
to understand all of the commands
that are pertinent on to Git itself.
As part of this course,
we'll be covering all of the main commands
when it comes onto the usage of Git.
And then please note that when you issue any command
when it comes on to Git,
the command is gonna be sent onto the Git software
that we have installed
and the Git software will execute that command accordingly.
And if you are not able to execute commands
from within the terminal in Visual Studio,
I told you that you can always use Command Prompt as well.
Here, if I just change my folder
and go onto my working directory where I have my files,
if I do a Git status here,
you will see the same output here as well.
So if it does not work for you in Visual Studio Code,
you can always go onto Command Prompt.
And if you are not comfortable
working with Visual Studio Code initially,
again you can always direct these files in Notepad,
just add some text and save it accordingly.
So I thought before moving ahead,
just to go through these important points.

--- Going back to a previous commit ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now as per our current state
we have our working directory
wherein we have made a change onto file A,
so it's kind of a new version of the file.
We then moved it onto a staging area
and then finally with the git commit command
we have committed onto the Git repository.
Now again why does Git actually provide
this kind of staging area?
So it basically gives us an opportunity
to review our changes before we are committed
onto the Git repository.
Let say we change our mind
and we don't want to commit those changes,
we can unstage our file at any point in time.
So a purpose when it comes onto the staging area.
Now, when it comes onto the diagrams I'm showing here,
I told you that just for the sake of convenience
I'm marking version numbers for the files.
But when it comes on to Git,
Git looks at your versioning
through the forms of the commits that you make
onto the Git repository.
Let me explain this.
I'll go on to Visual Studio Code.
Let me clear the screen.
Let me issue another command that's known as git log.
This gives you the entire history
of the changes made onto your Git repository.
Here you can see our initial commit that was made.
There is a unique id given to this commit,
and that's how Git tracks changes onto your Git repository.
So it's not versioning done at the file level.
It is these different commits
that are made onto your repository.
I said just for the sake of simplicity in my diagrams,
just to denote the different changes made onto our files.
That's why I had the version number in place.
But technically when it comes onto Git,
the way that it actually tracks the different versions
is via the different commits that are made
and each commit has a unique id.
Our second commit here has another id.
You can see the commit message.
You can see the author
who is the one that actually made the commit
and when the change was made.
Here there is also a special pointer
onto our most recent commit
that is pointing onto our main branch.
Now the entire point of a version control system
is you should be able to move back onto a prior version.
That's something that we can do here.
We can do this with the command of git checkout.
We can go onto our prior version.
I can highlight the initial commit.
I'll do a control C on my keyboard
to copy this commit number.
On my mouse I'll do a right click,
to basically paste in that commit number
and let me hit on enter.
You will now notice that in Visual Studio Code,
when it comes onto file A,
it is now reverted onto its original version.
The change is no longer there
because Git has now moved you
onto the initial commit.
The entire purpose of a versioning control system.
If I now do a git log,
you will see that you only have the commit message
of the initial commit.
We cannot see our future commit.
So we have gone back onto a prior commit version.
Let's say now I want to go
onto my most recent commit version.
I need to a git checkout of that commit number.
Now obviously here, if I scroll on top,
I can see that commit number.
I can copy it and do a git checkout.
But let's say you don't have that commit number in place.
How can I get that commit number?
Because if I do a git log
it is only showing me my initial commit number.
We can put a switch for the git log command
to show us all of the commits.
And now I can see my latest commit number.
Hence let me do a git checkout now
of my latest commit number.
Again, I'll do a control C,
I'll right click on my mouse
to paste in that commit number
and let me hit on enter.
You can see that the change again
has come back onto the file.
So in this chapter, wanna show you now,
how you can go back onto a previous commit version
when it comes onto your Git repository.

--- Un-staging a file ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I wanna showcase how do you unstage a file.
Let's say you've added changes of a file
onto the staging area,
but then you change your mind.
You want to unstage those changes
because you don't want to commit them
onto the Git repository.
Profile A, let me make another change.
Let me save those changes.
I should see the modified symbol here.
Let me do a git add to add those changes
onto our staging area.
Let me do a git status.
So it is telling me
that we have a modified version of file A,
But, at the same time,
it is also telling us
that the head is detached.
In order to attach our head back onto the main branch,
we can just do a simple git checkout of our main.
And if I do a git status again, everything is fine.
So we have now moved another change of file A
onto our staging area.
I said, let's say I have made a mistake
and I don't want to commit these changes
onto my Git repository.
That means I want to go back.
I want to unstage my changes.
The way we can do this is by issuing the command of get RM
with the cache switch and get the name of the file.
Now if I do,
I get status,
you will see that file A has moved
from the modified onto the untracked, basically.
So now it is not tracking this file.
I can revert back my changes.
I can choose to save this.
And we can again do a git status.
We can add this
again onto our staging area.
And if I do a git status again,
everything is fine.
So if you have made a mistake in your file
and you move it onto the staging area
you can very easily go ahead and unstage your file
so that those changes are not committed finally
onto your Git repository.

--- Git branches ---

(intro music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now we are gonna move into another important
aspect when it comes on to a version controlled system.
Yes. One thing is tracking the different version
of your files or basically your entire system.
Another core aspect is the working of branches
within a version control system.
And with get it manages branches in a very efficient manner.
It's very easy to go ahead and create a branch
and start working out of the branch.
Now, before we actually go into working with branches,
let me explain to you why do we have this concept
of branches in the first place.
Let's say that you have an entire team
that's working on a code for an application.
There is only one branch, your main branch.
So when you are actually making changes
onto a Git repository, by default it creates
something known as a main branch.
Because when we install the Git tool
we told that when you create a branch,
give a name of main onto the branch.
You will do your initial commit,
maybe of your application code and then your developers
will start making changes onto the
main branch itself for your code.
Now, for your application code,
you might have developers that could be working
on bug fixes for the application code
and probably adding new features for your application code.
Maybe the business users send requests
onto the I.T department to basically
add new features for the application
and then your developers start writing new code.
Now, it's always good to segregate
the changes made while
adding new features onto your code
or maybe working with bug fixes for your code.
And this segregation can be done with the help of branches.
What you can do is within Git,
you have your main branch in place
when a new feature needs to be developed
for your application.
What you do is you create a new branch
out of your main code.
So whatever is your code at that point in time
it's kind of a copy is being made
and then you can start adding or changing code to
add that new feature has a new separate branch.
See, where is this useful?
So let's say till this point in time
you have your working code
and this code, application code is
currently running in production.
Normally, you don't want to make
changes directly onto the score
because let's say you add the wrong change.
Yes, you can go back onto a prior version
to get the working copy, but has a good practice now.
You should create kind of a new
working copy of your code has a branch
then start adding the new feature by adding code.
And once you test out the feature
it's working has it should be.
You can then merge the code that is this branch
with your main branch and your branch will be
up to date with this new feature.
And then along the line you can go ahead and again
create a new branch for the next feature.
Working with branches is very, very important
and in Git you cam very easily go ahead
and create a new branch and start working out of that
new branch.
In this chapter.
First I wanna give you an idea when it comes
onto the concept of branches.

--- Working with branches ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So now in this chapter,
we're gonna see how to create a branch
within GIT and how to work off the branch.
You can actually create a branch
and then start working on the branch
directly with the use of the git checkout command.
There is another command to first create the branch
and then you can do a git checkout of that branch.
But there is one command with the use of git checkout
wherein you can create the branch
and then work on the branch in one shot itself.
So here we can specify that we want to create a branch
and we will give a name for the branch as feature A.
You will see an output saying that we are now switched
to a new branch feature A
if I do a git status.
You are now on the feature A branch.
Again, you can think of your main branch
as one line now of code.
But what we have done is, we are now deviating
from the main branch.
We have created a new branch
and we can start working on our files.
We still have file A and file B.txt.
All at this point has been copied onto this new branch.
Now as part of this new feature,
let's say we have to create a new file.
Hence let me create a new file here in visual studio code.
I'll name this as file C.txt.
I'll say this is file C.
And again, we can see this has been untracked.
It's not being tracked by git.
Let me issue the same commands.
Let me add file C
onto my staging area
and let me commit the changes.
I'll do a git commit,
I'll add a message,
added file C.
Let me go ahead and hit on enter.
So I think I didn't make the save,
so let me go ahead and save file C.
Let me do the same thing again.
Let me first add file C and then commit the changes.
So now remember we have added file C
onto this feature A branch.
If I do again a git status
via on the branch feature A.
If I do a git log now,
you will see that we have four commits in place.
We have now a head pointing onto the feature A branch
whereas we have the last commit that was made
onto our main branch.
Now let me just hit on the 'Q' button
on my keyboard to exit from here.
So we are back on our working directory.
So now what does this mean?
Right, we have now our feature A branch
and we have our main branch.
If I now do a git checkout of our main branch,
you will see file C.txt is no longer available.
I will close this
and that's because in the main branch only has the files
of file A.txt
and file B.txt.
But now we have a new stream of development
that is feature A.
If I do a git checkout
of the feature A branch,
you will see file C.txt is come back.
And that's because this code set
is part of the feature A branch.
So you can see in git it's so easy to start
creating branches and then working on them.

--- Merging the branches ---

(upbeat music)
-: So, in the last chapter,
we had create our feature branch.
We added file c.txt onto our feature branch.
So I told you that in a realistic scenario,
when you're working on application code,
you might be working, your developers might be working
on a separate feature for the application,
and at some point in time
they would want to merge their changes
onto the main branch.
We'll go through some more merging concepts
a little bit later on.
But for now,
let's go ahead and do a simple merge of our feature,
a branch with our main branch.
That means, we want both of our branches now
to contain the same set of files and changes.
For that, let me first do a git checkout
of our main branch.
I can issue now the command of git merge
and give the name of my feature branch.
It has done something known as a fast-forward merge.
Again, don't worry,
I'll be going through the different types of merges
a little bit later on.
At this point in time
it has done a merge of both of our branches.
That's why you can see,
now if I do a git status
We are on the main branch,
and our main branch now has the file c.txt.
If I do a git log,
you will see the head is now pointing
onto both our main branch and our feature A branch,
because they are both in sync.
So, it's very easy to go ahead
and merge your branches together.

--- Using a remote repository ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the prior chapters, we had seen how we could work
with our Git client to initialize the repository,
add files onto a staging area,
commit those changes onto the Git repository.
How do we go back onto a prior version?
How do we work with branches?
Now, this is obviously great when you're working
with the application code on your local system
but then obviously,
when you have a host of developers
working on application code
you'll still want to have a centralized place
wherein you have the application code in place.
It's fine that each developer has their own working copy
of the application code.
But, at some point in time,
you want to have a central repository
for the code itself.
In such a case,
you can make use of a central repository server.
Either you could host a Git software on your own server
or you could have a repository,
a remote repository, available on the internet.
We are gonna be looking
at two examples of softwares available on the internet
when it comes on to hosting your Git repositories.
One is GitHub, which is very popular,
and the other is Azure Repos,
within the Azure DevOps set of services.
Here what happens is you can have your application code
hosted on the remote Git repository,
then each developer,
with the use of the Git client tool,
they can actually clone the code,
the application code, from the remote repository.
So it's like bring the entire application code base
on their local machine.
Then they can start making changes
onto their local repository.
And then they can merge the changes
from their local repository onto the remote repository.
So when it comes on to sharing code,
collaboration on code,
it's good to have a remote place
where you can host the entire repository itself.
So initially we're gonna be looking at how to use GitHub
and then later on we'll see how to make use
of Azure Repos.
In the next chapter,
let's start with the usage of GitHub itself.

--- Creating a GitHub account ---

(upbeat music)
-: So here I'm on the site, when it comes on to github.com.
So with the use of GitHub,
you can actually host your Git-based repositories.
You can use the same Git commands
to work with your local repositories
and then push the changes of your code
onto remote repositories hosted on GitHub.
And there are a lot more features available
with the GitHub product itself.
There are many pricing models in place
if you look at the plans.
If I go onto the plans for GitHub,
if I scroll down, we'll be using the free plan,
that should be fine by us.
It has a lot of features in place.
Obviously in larger organizations,
they should look towards having either the team plan
or the enterprise plan based on the features
that are available in both of these plans.
But for us, we can go ahead and use the free plan.
You can easily go ahead and sign up for a GitHub account.
I told you we are using the free plan,
so it should be fine by us.
For this you have an email address in place.
So I'll be using my Gmail account that I have.
Let me hit on Continue.
I need to create a password for my GitHub account.
(keyboard clatters)
I'll hit on Continue.
I need to enter a username for the GitHub account.
So I'll just enter this as username, it is available.
I'll hit on Continue.
Do I want to receive product updates?
It depends upon you.
At the moment I'll just place it as No.
It's asked me to solve a particular puzzle.
This is just to verify the account.
I'll click on Start Puzzle.
It's ask me to pick a spiral galaxy.
I'll choose the image.
I choose again.
This is done.
Go ahead and hit on Create Account.
It's sent a code onto my Gmail account.
So I've got the code here.
Let me copy the code.
Place it here.
It is asking us some information.
I'll just choose Just Me.
Let me hit on Continue.
So the moment I'll just skip the personalization
and then we should be directed onto our GitHub account.
So very easy to go ahead
and start off using a GitHub account.
So, currently I'm using my Gmail address
to not only create the GitHub account,
I'll use it to create my Azure DevOps account
and also I use it to create my Azure account as well
where I can create resources within the Azure portal.
You can use the same email address
to create all of these accounts.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter
wherein we have gone ahead and create our GitHub account.

--- Publishing onto GitHub ---

(funky music)
-: In the prior chapter,
we had gone ahead
and create our GitHub account.
Let's look an example
wherein we will create a repository
within our GitHub account,
and let's push our files
from our local repository
the Git repository that we have
onto our remote repository in GitHub.
Let me go ahead and just clear the screen.
The first thing I'll do is
to create a new repository
within my GitHub account.
I can give the repository name,
just give a simple repository name.
This is gonna be a public repository.
I won't add anything.
I'll just create the repository as it is.
Once you create the repository,
it'll give you commands
on performing your first commit locally
or creating a branch.
For us, the important commands is
using this git remote command
to add a remote repository as an origin
and then we can push all of the code
or our files
in our main branch onto this origin
which is a repository in our GitHub account.
So please note that we are working with our files
not only in our Git repository,
but we can now push it
onto a remote repository on the internet
while the use of GitHub.
Then another user can clone our repository
on their local machine
and start working with the files
and performing their own versioning
by creation of branches, et cetera.
So let's go ahead and push our local repository
onto this remote repository in GitHub.
These are the two main commands.
Let me copy this first command.
I'll do a Ctrl + C here in the terminal.
Again, a right click on my mouse.
The first step is to tell our local Git repository
that we now have a remote repository available as well.
And now if I wanna push all
of my files from the local repository,
I will use the git push command.
Hit on Enter.
Now, as soon as you issue the command
to push the changes onto the remote repository,
it's asking you to connect
or to sign onto GitHub.
I'll sign in using the browser.
It should then open up a browser link
wherein, it should ask you to log in
with the username and the password.
Once you've logged in
with the username and the password,
it's using the views
of the Git credential manager now.
I'll authorize the Git credential manager now
to manage the access onto GitHub.
And then once this is done,
if you go back onto Visual Studio Code,
you will see that your changes would've been pushed
onto the remote repository in GitHub.
Now if I refresh this entire page,
I can see my file A.txt,
my file B.txt, and my file C.txt.
So now we've gone ahead
and published our files
from our local repository
onto a remote GitHub repository.

--- Committing changes to GitHub ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in the prior chapter, we had gone ahead
and published the code of basically the files
from our main branch, from our local Git repository
onto the repository hosted on GitHub,
and now you can actually make changes
onto your local repository
and then you can always push the changes onto GitHub.
Yeah, let me ensure that I am in my main branch.
(narrator typing)
So let me do a Git status.
Yes, I'm on the main branch.
Let me clear the screen.
Let me go onto File B.
(narrator typing)
Let's make a change.
Let me save this.
Let me again, stage my changes.
(narrator typing)
Let me commit my changes.
This will be onto my local Git repository.
(narrator typing)
Once you've done this, if I do now a Git log,
you will see that the head pointer
is pointing onto my main branch
but my origin is still pointing onto my main branch here
and which is the same as my feature A branch.
That means my main branch
on my local machine is further down the line
than the main branch
on my origin Git repository in GitHub.
And now we can push our changes.
I'll just put a Q on the keyboard to quit.
We can now push again our changes onto our origin.
For this, I can use a command
of pushing my changes onto my origin.
I don't need to add the remote origin again.
You just do this once to specify
what is going to be your remote repository.
Now I'm just gonna push my changes.
Once this is done.
Here if I refresh the browser when it comes
on to my repository in GitHub,
if I go onto File B
you can see the change is being applied here.
If you click on the history for File B,
you will see that it was part of the initial commit
and the change made onto File B.
Just made a mistake when it came onto the commit message.
But I just wanna show you how you can now
make a change to your local repository
and how you can push the changes onto GitHub.
Now, please note that
this is not the recommended approach
when you're doing development to apply changes
or push changes directly
on the main branch on your local repository
onto the main branch in your remote repository.
I just wanna show you, this is possible.
What you normally will do is you'll actually create branches
on your local machine.
You can then publish the branches maybe
onto the remote repository, and you'll make use
of a feature known as a pull request to merge the changes
of that feature branch onto the main branch.
This is something that we are definitely going to look at.
At this point in time
I just want to show you
that you can make changes onto your local depository
and you can publish those changes onto a remote repository.

--- Note about using Visual Studio ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in these subsequent chapters,
we're gonna see how we can publish code
onto a Git repository.
We're gonna be using now Visual Studio 2022
for this purpose.
We are not gonna do anything complex.
But then to show you the benefit of using version control,
because this'll normally be done by a developer,
I wanna simulate the situation
wherein a developer is using Visual Studio
for let's say a sample .NET application
and how do they manage version control with the use of Git.
We're not gonna be having a complex application in place.
We'll use a default ASP.NET template
that's available within Visual Studio.
Now if you don't have Visual Studio in place,
you can download the community edition
when it comes on to Visual Studio, it's free of cost.
In the next chapter, I'll add some content
on how you can actually install Visual Studio
on your local machine.
I've already gone ahead and done that
and I'm going to launch Visual Studio
for the subsequent chapters
so that we can show the integration of Git
within Visual Studio itself.

--- About publishing code from Visual Studio ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter, we are gonna see
how we can work with a Git repository from within
Visual Studio 2022.
Now, normally a developer would like to have the integration
of Git itself within an Integrate development environment.
So a .Net developer would want to be able to work
with Git repositories from within Visual Studio.
A Java developer might want to, let's say, work with Git
from their ID such as Eclipse.
And normally a lot of these integrated development
environments like Visual Studio will have the inbuilt
integration when it comes onto working with Git.
So remember that when we were working with Git here
from the terminal in Visual Studio Core,
we were using the Git command line interface.
But I said when it comes on developers, they like when
they have a direct integration with their favorite ID
when it comes onto development.
I've gone ahead
and just opened up Visual Studio 2022.
So since I work with this ID, I have some solutions
which I've opened on the left hand side.
What we will do is we'll create a very simple project.
I'll choose the option of create a new project.
In terms of the inbuilt templates,
I'm gonna search for ASP.NET Core.
I'm choosing C# ASP.NET Core web app.
I'll choose that and click on next.
I'll give a simple project name.
It's gonna be in one of my temporary locations.
Go onto next.
It's gonna be in dot net six, and I'll choose create.
We're not gonna build any sort of fancy applications.
We're gonna use the inbuilt templates
when it comes onto Visual Studio.
You might be coming
I said from a background of let's say AZ-104,
wherein you are an as your administrator.
That's why you might not be very comfortable when
it comes onto development.
Obviously, if you're coming from AZ-204 perspective,
then obviously all of this will be very familiar to you.
But to cater to all of my students
whichever background they come from
I want to ensure that I cover the basics.
We have the simple web application in place.
If you click on the run button here
we'll actually see how the application looks like.
We're not gonna look our focus on running the application
in this particular section.
We wanna see how do we integrate this application
or the project source code with a versioning control tool.
A simple web application, it's displayed in the browser.
Let me go ahead and stop this.
Right, so we have our project in place based on .NET.
Here are on the right hand side,
you will see all
of the code files that are included in this project.
We can now publish all
of these code files
from the project directly onto GitHub.
In Visual Studio, we'll have this option of Git here.
We can choose the option of create Git Repository.
What this is gonna do is
it's first gonna initialize a local Git repository.
This is gonna be
in the folder that's hosting this entire .NET project.
It's like doing a Git in it, doing a Git add of everything
and then doing a Git commit locally.
At the same time
it's going to create a new GitHub repository.
It's gonna create a repository with this particular name.
So it's doing two things.
It's first initializing the local Git repository,
committing everything, and then it's pushing all
of this onto a remote GitHub repository.
Currently, it's showing a different account here.
I want to choose my particular account.
I'm gonna choose Tech Support 4,000.
If you don't see your account here
just go ahead and add an account.
I'm gonna reenter my credentials.
This should open
up the authorization to authorize Visual Studio to
access my repositories as part of this GitHub account.
I'll authorize GitHub.
I just need to enter my password.
Just confirm the password again.
So it's a success, that should be done.
We should now be logged into GitHub.
As the owner, I can choose the owner credentials.
I can create a repository of web app
and this can be a public repository.
And I said directly, it's going to go ahead.
I said initialize the local Git repository
and then publishes on to GitHub.
But I wanna take a different approach
when publishing this project onto GitHub.
I wanna create something known
as an organization within GitHub,
and then publish my code
onto a repository within that organization.
The reason I'm going with this approach is,
I want to specifically show you
how you can have two users that can actually
collaborate on code within a GitHub repository.
See, this is very simple.
As a user, I can go ahead
and publish code onto the GitHub repository
but then obviously you'd want to know how
do multiple people actually collaborate on that code.
So within GitHub, we're gonna create something known
as an organization and have another user part
of that organization that can actually collaborate
on code when it is published onto GitHub.
I'm gonna mark an end
onto this chapter without publishing my code onto GitHub.
I'm gonna choose cancel.
I just wanna show you,
this is something that is possible
if you wanna do a simple publish of your code
onto the GitHub repository.
Let's move onto the next chapter,
where we'll do something a little bit different,
I said in creating an organization within a GitHub account.

--- Installing Visual Studio 2022 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Publishing code from Visual Studio ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So as I mentioned in the prior chapter,
we're gonna go ahead and create something known
as an organization from within our GitHub account.
This is something that you can do from your free account.
In your profile, you can go onto settings.
If I scroll down, there's something known as organizations,
I can go ahead and choose this.
I don't want to turn my account into an organization,
I just want to create a new organization.
It'll go ahead and ask it to pick a plan
for your organization, but I can just choose the free plan,
so I can create a free organization.
I can give a simple organization name,
it should not be taken.
Then I need to give a contact email.
This organization belongs onto my personal account.
We need to again, verify account, I'll click on verify here.
This is done, I'll accept the terms service,
I'll scroll down, I'll go onto next.
We can then add organization members,
for the moment, I'll skip the step
and when welcoming on to GitHub,
again, I don't need to add all of this.
What I can do is directly now in your profile,
you can see the option of your organizations
and we have now an organization in place.
Here, we can go ahead and create repositories.
Hence, let me go on to repositories
and we could create a new repository,
but I can publish now my code onto a new repository
within this organization from within Visual Studio.
From Visual Studio now, again, I'll go onto the Git menu,
I'll choose Create Git Repository.
In terms of the owner,
this time, I'll choose my organization
which I can also see here.
It'll create a repository with the same name as web app,
that's the name of my project.
I want it to be a public repository.
Let me now do a create and a push.
So what this is gonna do I said,
it's gonna first initialize a Git repository
within this particular folder,
and then it'll do a commit,
and then push all of the code onto our GitHub repository.
You can see a lock symbol now in place of some of the files.
This just notifies you, or its Visual Studio's way
of letting you know that these files are now being tracked
as part of a Git repository.
If you go on to GitHub
and you refresh the page when it comes on to repositories
for your organization, you can see the repository in place.
If you click on it,
you will see all of the code files accordingly.
If you go on to the temp2 directory on your local machine
where you have the web app project,
you can see Git files in place and Git folders also.
All of this is now being used to track your code
as part of the internal Git repository.
When you make a change,
so let's say you wanna make a change onto a code file.
Let me go onto pages and make a simple change
onto the index file here.
I'll just name or change this onto application version one.
I'll save everything.
Once you do this,
you will see now a tick mark here in front of the file.
This denotes that a change has been made onto the file
and you need to commit this change.
If I go onto,
in my view menu now,
I'm gonna choose the view of Git changes,
you will see the Git changes launching here.
We can do a commit all and push everything
onto the remote repository.
Hence, you'll be doing a commit of your changes
onto the local Git repository
and then it'll publish these changes
onto the remote repository.
I'll just give a description, I'll choose commit all,
commit all and push.
It would've gone ahead and committed the changes
and then push the changes onto the remote repository.
If I go onto pages here within the GitHub repository,
you can see the commit message is already in place,
and if I go onto this file,
you will see the change in place.
So for within Visual Studio now, we have the ability
to integrate it with a Git repository, not only locally,
but have an integration with GitHub itself.
Now, I told you the main purpose as to why
I create an organization was to show you
how you can collaborate as another user on the code.
Remember earlier on in my last section,
I had another user as part of my Azure DevOps organization,
that is TLCUserOne.
I had a Gmail address for that.
I use the same Gmail address first
to create a new GitHub account
for that particular user.
In the Edge browser, let me close this,
I'll open up a new session of Microsoft Edge here.
So I'm currently signed in as TechSupport4000.
Let me go ahead and sign out and sign in again.
So I'm gonna sign in as TLCUserOne.
So I create a new GitHub account for this particular user.
Now only left hand side,
you can see that I already have one other organization
and a web app in place, this was done during my research
on seeing how do I allow a user to collaborate on a project.
So I wanna show you
how you can actually achieve all of this.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter
and see how we can do this in the next chapter.
In this chapter, I just wanna show you first
how do you push code from Visual Studio
onto repository onto GitHub.

--- Now let's clone the repository as another user ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in this chapter,
I wanna go ahead and show you
how we can now collaborate as another user
on the repository code that we've published onto GitHub.
Here in the Edge browser,
I'm logged in as TOC user one.
In Google Chrome I'm logged in as my admin user.
I already have the code in place.
I'm gonna go onto my organization again.
In the organization,
I can go onto people,
I can invite a member.
(keyboard clicks)
I'll choose TOC user one and click on invite.
I need to confirm the password for my Azure admin account.
I need to confirm the password
for my admin account here
in order invite TOC user one.
The role within my organization is gonna be a member.
I'll send the invitation.
Once the invitation has been sent,
an email will be sent onto that particular Gmail address,
but as TOC user one
I can click on manage organizations here.
You can see there's an invitation
that has been sent from DevOps 6,000.
I'll click on join to join that organization.
I'll join DevOps 6,000,
and I can now see the web app repository from DevOps 6,000.
So I can now see the repositories within that organization.
Now on my local machine,
in my C drive,
I update a new folder known as TOC user one.
Let's behave as this is the working directly
for this particular user.
In a normal use case scenario in your organization
you don't have to go through all of this
because you'll be having your own account to work with
on your own machine.
The entire purpose here
is just to show you that when you have multiple users,
how do you collaborate on the code?
How do you basically work with the code?
This user now does not need to do
any sort of Git init
or you know, do a git commit.
You know, it needs to now actually clone the repository
because the code is already in place.
Earlier on as tech support 4,000,
I first had a project,
then I create a Git repository
and then I publish it on to GitHub.
But as another user,
so let's say a developer has just joined your organization
and they need to work on existing code.
That existing code might be part of a GitHub repository.
To start working with that Git repository in GitHub,
they have now cloned the repository.
It's a different process.
Once they clone the repository
then they can start working
with your application code files.
Now what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna close Visual Studio and open up again.
So I've opened up Visual Studio again.
Here the option I need to choose now
is to clone a repository.
Here in terms of the path, just for the moment,
I've chosen my TOC user one path on my C Drive.
So lemme go and choose this option of GitHub.
Here I need to login as TOC user one.
Let me try to add a GitHub account.
Now here it's saying that the authorization was successful
and if I go on to Visual Studio
now you can see your logged in has TOC user one.
We can now take our DevOps repository of DevOps 6,000
and click on the clone button.
It's now gonna fetch the project
from the GitHub repository within this organization.
If I go onto the solution explorer,
I can just click on the folder view
and I can see my project in place.
If I go onto the index file,
just double click the index file,
we can see application version one.
I can now make a change as TOC user one.
You can see again the check mark here.
Go on to Git changes.
I'll give a commit message.
I'll choose commit all and push, just save everything.
So here we're getting an error.
It's failed to push onto the remote repository
and this is because of a permission error.
If I go onto my DevOps organization again,
so I'll click on my organization, let me go onto settings.
In settings, let me go onto Member privileges.
What are the base privileges?
Instead of read, I'll give the permission of write.
I'll change the base permission onto write.
One way of handling this.
Once this is done,
I can click on this one outgoing, zero incoming message.
It actually gives me now the history interface
when it comes onto the Git repository.
The last change which was made a change onto the index page.
I can click on push now just to push this change
onto the remote repository.
This is now done.
If I go onto my organization again,
if I go onto the repository,
let me go onto the pages.
I go onto the index page,
I can see application version two.
If I go back onto pages
you can see made a change onto the index page.
If I click on the page again,
and if I go onto history,
you will see here that
when the change was made onto the index page,
it's still showing the user as tech support 4,000.
This is probably because in Visual Studio,
if I go onto tools and choose options,
if I search for Git here,
if I go on to the Git global settings
in the Git global settings,
by default the username
and the email address is coming in here.
So it also depends on what is the author
that actually specified when doing the commits
onto the repository.
I said, in your case
when you're working with an organization
you don't have to go through all of these hassles.
My only purpose was just to show you
how you can have now multiple users
actually work with code in a repository.
When you have a second user
that user will actually clone the repository,
make changes
and then commit changes onto the GitHub repository.

--- Let's create a merge request ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, want to go through the emerging process
that happens when you're working from Visual Studio.
So as DOC user one, we had made the most recent change
on to that index page within our code.
This is on the local repository,
and then we push that onto GitHub.
Let's now ask TechSupport4000
to make a force change onto that index page.
We'll do this from within GitHub itself,
and then as DOC user one,
let's try to make another change
and see if we can push our changes.
So, let me explain what we mean by this.
Let me go onto the web app here.
I'll go onto the pages.
I'll go onto the index page.
In the index page here itself.
So, I'm logged in here, as TechSupport4000.
I can directly edit the page, here, itself.
I can click on edit this file.
I'll make a change.
I'll put this as version three.
I'll scroll down.
We can commit our changes.
(keyboard clacking)
I'll say change for version three.
I'll commit directly onto the main branch.
Let me commit the changes.
This is now done.
We now have a changed version of this particular file.
Basically a new commit onto the repository.
Here, as basically, I'm logged in as DOC User one.
Let me go onto the solution explorer.
I'll go onto the index page.
Let me make a change and say application version four.
I'll click on save here.
Again, we have the tick mark
that signifies a change has been made.
I'll go on to git changes.
I'll close the last error message.
(keyboard clacking)
Just giving a name again.
In commit all, I'll choose again commit all and push.
So, it should commit onto the local repository,
and then initiate a push.
It's now giving me a message.
It's saying, unable to push onto the remote repository,
because your local branch is behind the remote branch.
And, this is understandable because we have made a change,
after change has already been made by someone else,
onto the repository.
Hence, we need to pull it down.
So, there's another operation available in Git,
to pull changes from a remote repository.
So, in addition to pushing changes onto a repository,
we can pull down changes made by someone else
from a repository itself.
Hence, we need to first pull the changes.
Let me do a pull, and then a push, and see what happens.
Now, the pull did complete,
but here it's saying there are conflicts,
and obviously there are conflicts.
It's actually giving the conflict detail here.
It's saying that you have made a change
onto that line of code of version four,
whereas there is already a change made onto that same file
in the GitHub repository that says version three.
Now it's up to you to make sure
that you act accordingly on this particular conflict,
and then do the merge accordingly.
Here, I can choose.
On the index file, I can right click,
and I can do a comparison, which is already being done.
And, I can decide should I keep my current local copy
as the one that should override the copy
in the remote repository?
Or should I take the incoming remote one
as the most recent version.
I choose to keep my current local copy.
Now, let me do a commit again.
This time it's gonna do a merge.
(keyboard clanking)
I'll just give a message.
I'll do a commit all in push.
Now, it's done.
Let me refresh this page,
and I can see application version four.
Visual Studio, now, is using the inbuilt technology,
that's available within Git,
for handling the emerging process.
I can remember all of this is being managed by Git,
in terms of the emerging onto GitHub,
but we're doing it from within Visual Studio.
So, I'll show you another scenario
in which you have this merging process in place.
This time, this is done from within Visual Studio.

--- More on merges ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapters,
we had seen some different ways in which we could perform
the merging process.
One way was from Visual Studio
wherein as another developer,
we had first cloned the repository,
we had made a change, and then we had done a merge.
At that point in time, when we were doing the merge
there was a conflict and we had to make sure
that we resolved the conflict
before we do the entire merging process.
So that is what we had done.
All of this was being done on the main branch.
This was from within Visual Studio.
Another way in which we saw the merging process
was from within Visual Studio Code.
This was very earlier on
wherein we were dealing with very simple text based files.
At that point in time,
we had created actually a feature branch
and then we merged that feature branch onto the main branch.
This was another way of performing the merging process.
But at this point in time, we were merging branches.
In the earlier example,
we were just merging the code within the same branch itself.
I will take the example wherein we had done
the merging process from within Visual Studio Code.
This sort of merging, which we had seen earlier on is known
as a fast-forward merge.
What is an example of a fast-forward merge?
So we had our main branch
and then we created a feature branch.
Within the feature branch we added the file C.txt
and then we merged the feature branch with the main branch.
Here, when we made changes onto the feature branch,
at that point in time, we did not make any changes
onto the main branch.
So the feature branch, the changes were made
but at the same time, no one did any changes
onto the main branch during this point in time.
So when Git wanted to do a merging process,
it did something known has a fast-forward merge
wherein the main branch just now pointed
onto to the last commit of the feature branch.
It is like taking the pointer and then using
the commit of the feature branch to perform
that fast-forward merge.
I'll show you an example of another merge
so that you actually understand this concept
when it comes onto a fast-forward merge.
Here, just remember that when we were doing
the merging process between two branches,
we made changes in one branch that is the feature branch
but we did not make any changes onto the main branch.
When we did a merge, Git saw that there is only changes
made onto one branch and not onto the other.
So it did the most fastest way of doing a merge
by just placing the pointer
onto the branch wherein the change was made.
And by pointer, I mean the pointing of the head
when it comes onto the main and the feature branch
after the merch process was complete.
Here you can see the head is pointing
onto the commit operation wherein we added file C
onto the feature branch.
If you wanna see this kind of
tree diagram for your commit operations,
from within Visual Studio Code you can do a git log
and you can use Graph
and you will see the changes accordingly.
So in this chapter,
I just wanted to talk a little bit more
when it comes on to fast-forward merging.
In the next chapter, let's look at another merging process.

--- A different merge process ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter
we are gonna go ahead
and look at another merging process.
We are actually gonna make changes.
This is for the txt files
that we have from within Visual Studio Code.
So we are taking a deviation
from working with Visual Studio itself
and coming back onto Visual Studio Code,
because I wanna show the merging process again,
when it comes onto our files from within Visual Studio Code.
Here what we're gonna do is we are gonna make changes
onto both our feature branch
and our main branch at the same time.
Let me clear the screen.
Let me do a git checkout of our feature branch first.
Let me go onto filec.txt.
Let's make a change.
I'll save this.
So now it's modified.
Let's do a git add
and then let's do a git commit.
(keyboard clicks)
This is done.
So we'd already seen this earlier on,
but now what I'll do is let me checkout my main branch.
Let me go on to fileb.txt
and let's make a change now onto fileb.txt.
So now before we do the merging process
we have actually made a change
onto both files within the feature branch
and files within the main branch as well.
(keyboard clicks)
Save this, let me add fileb.txt.
Let's do a commit.
So we have committed both changes.
Now if I do a git merge of my feature branch,
it's saying the merge is made
by something known as an ORT strategy.
This is a strategy which Git has taken
when it has done the merging of two branches
which have changes within them.
Now if I look at git log,
you will see that a different sort of merge
has actually taken place here.
I'm just pressing the enter button.
Currently here you can see that this particular commit
is for the origin for the main branch.
This is the current commit, which is published onto GitHub.
But then locally we have made more changes.
Here we can see the commit message
which has been done for file B.
This was on our main branch,
a separate commit which was done
for our feature branch for file C.
And then if we scroll on top,
we will see a new commit in place
for the entire merge operation.
You will see the difference between this sort of merging
and the fast-forward merge we had seen earlier on.
In the fast forward merge,
you would see only one commit message
and that was the commit message
for the change made onto the feature branch.
Git only just did a fast-forward merge
wherein it took the pointer of the HEAD
and moved it at the top of the line,
basically for the commit made onto the feature branch.
But here in the history now for Git
we can see the commit message
for the changes made onto each branch,
and there is a separate commit message also
for the entire merge operation.
And Git has taken this strategy
because it has understood that there have been changes
made on both branches
and that's why it needed to do something different
in order to merge those changes.
So in this chapter
wanna go through another merging process
that Git can undertake when it detects changes
onto files during the merging process itself.

--- Squash Merge ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through another type of merging process
that's known as a squash merge.
In the last merging process,
we had seen that when it comes
onto the git history for the merging process
we could see the commit message that was made
onto each branch and a separate commit message
that was done for the merging process itself.
Well, let's say as a developer,
you don't have so many commit messages in place
when it comes onto the merging process.
'Cause see, in our case we did only one change
onto each file in each branch.
But from a development perspective,
you might have several commits in each branch.
And when you go ahead and do the merging process
you might get the commit messages
that are made onto each branch.
So maybe you might get around 25 to 30 commit messages
when you do a merge.
Maybe you don't want to have that history
when it comes onto your main branch.
Because remember this is the history
that's happening onto the main branch itself.
You would still have a history in place,
the git history for your feature branches.
You have an option when it comes onto the merging process
in git and that is known as a squash merge.
When you're doing a merge, you can just tell git
please do a squash merge so that we don't have
all of this commits in place.
Let's again, see an example of this.
Let me hit on the 'Q' button on my keyboard
to exit from here.
Let's clear the screen.
Let me do a git checkout again of our feature branch.
Let me make another change here.
Let's copy this.
Let me save this.
Again let's do a git add for file C.txt,
then let's do a git commit.
(keyboard tapping)
Let's now checkout the main branch.
And for file B.txt,
I'll make a change,
do a git add of file B.txt.
Let me add a commit message.
So both are in place.
Now when we do a git merge
when it comes onto our feature branch,
you can say please do a squash merge.
We are specifying the squash option.
Once this is done so the automatic merging process
has completed.
If I now do a git log,
if you scroll on top,
so now here you can see
that this commit was the previous commit which we had done
when it came onto the merging process.
Now we have only one commit in place that was done
for this particular merging process.
In the git history we can't see the commits that was done
for each individual branch.
We can only see a squash merge in place.
So the squash merge, this helps reduce
the number of commit messages
when you're doing a merging process.

--- Creating a branch on GitHub ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: So now in this chapter,
I wanna showcase how you can work with branches in GitHub.
So you can directly create branches in GitHub itself
and then you can merge those branches together.
Here I am logged in as DOC User one.
Let me go onto my organizations, which I am a part of.
I go on DevOps 6,000.
Go on to the Web App Repository that I have.
Let me make a change.
Yeah, if I go onto the branch section,
I can see my main branch.
I can click on view all branches.
Here, I can create a new branch.
This branch will be created off the main branch.
I'll just give a branch name and click on Create Branch.
We now have the feature branch in place.
If I click on the feature branch,
so we can see our files in place.
Please note that this feature branch
is being created off the main branch.
That's why we have the same code files in place.
I'll go onto the pages.
Let me go onto the index page.
In the index page,
let me make a change directly here itself.
I'll edit this file.
This is version five.
Let me go ahead and scroll down.
I'll add a commit message,
and I'm committing these changes onto the feature branch.
Let me go ahead and click on commit changes.
So, we have this in place.
If I go back onto my branches now, I'll view all branches.
In order to merge this branch with our main branch,
we have to perform an action known as a pull request.
So, this is a good practice
when you want to merge branches together,
especially your feature branches with your main branch.
With the help of a pull request,
you can also have reviewers in place
who can review the changes being made
in the feature branch that need to be merged
onto the main branch
because you always want to ensure that your main branch,
which is normally the branch which has your production code
always has the correct version
for the application code itself.
I'll choose the option of creating a new pull request.
Let me go ahead and scroll down.
We can then click on the button of creating a pull request.
The pull request has now been created.
Currently, the branch has no conflicts with the base branch.
We can now perform the process
of merging the pull request,
wherein we are merging the feature branch
with the main branch.
Please note that currently, as this user,
we have created a pull request, but it's not necessity
that this user only does the merge operation.
The merge operation can be done
by the administrator of this repository.
We have the different options also here in place
wherein we can do a squash and merge
and a rebase and merge.
Here, let me leave it as create and merge commit
and I'll merge the pull request.
I'll confirm the merge
and now the pull request was a success
wherein it was merged and it was closed.
You can then go ahead and actually delete the feature branch
if it's no longer required.
If I go back onto my Web App Repository,
in my main branch, if I go onto Web App now,
if I go onto the pages,
if I go onto the index page,
I can see version five, feature 100.
So in this chapter, I just wanna showcase
that we can create branches from within GitHub itself.

--- Creating a branch in Visual Studio ---

(upbeat funky music)
Presenter: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I wanna showcase
that we can create a branch
from within Visual Studio as well.
This will create a branch
on the local Git repository
and then it could publish the branch onto GitHub.
Here I'm logged in in Visual Studio.
You've seen this earlier on.
I have actually cloned this repository,
as doc user one.
I can go onto the Git menu here
and I should be able to create a new branch.
I can give a branch name again based on the main branch
and it'll also check out the branch so that
we can start working directly
on this new feature branch.
I'll choose Create.
So it's checked out the feature branch.
Let me go onto the index page.
Let me make a change.
Let me save this.
Again, we have the check mark.
I'll go on to Git changes.
I'll say added as part of feature 200 branch.
Let me go and commit all and push.
So please note here it is pushing now
this current feature branch onto GitHub.
It is making the changes onto this branch
and then committing it onto GitHub itself.
Now here, back in the Edge browser in doc user one
if I go onto my web app, you will see
that we have now even the feature 200 branch
in place and we have the code files accordingly.
You know, I can go onto viewing all branches
and we can create a new pull request
for this feature 200 branch.
And the process remains the same.
We can create a pull request.
It's checking for whether any sort
of conflicts are in place.
It's saying this branch has conflicts
that need to be resolved.
This is because we have made a change
onto the index page.
Let me go ahead and resolve the conflicts.
So it's telling what is the prior change that we have
that's version five, and what is the new change
that we are making.
So here what you can do is
we can ensure to only keep,
we are doing this all manually here, when we are
making a change and ensuring
that only the correct line statement is present
for our new feature, I can then mark this as resolved.
And then I can commit the merge.
Now, there are no conflicts.
I can merge the pull request and confirm the merge.
And now the feature branch should be merged
with our main branch.
So in this chapter, wanna kind of show you how
you can create a branch from within Visual Studio.
Publish the branch onto GitHub.
And again, we perform the pull request from GitHub itself.

--- Adding a branch protection rule in Github ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the concept
of having these branch protection rules in place.
Here as my admin user,
if I go onto my DevOps organization
and go onto the web app
application or repository that I have on my main branch,
you can also see a warning here that says
that your branch isn't protected.
Go ahead and protect this branch.
Let me go ahead and click on this.
This actually takes us onto the setting page
when it comes onto the repository
and it takes us onto branches on the code and automation.
We have the branch name pattern, which is our main branch,
we have different options when it comes onto protecting
our main branch.
So based on the pattern that we specify here,
we can have different options
for protecting that particular branch.
For example, I could have this option in place
wherein a request, a pull request is always required
before emerging process.
And I'm not talking about merging a feature branch
and the main branch.
This is even when you are making changes
onto the main branch itself.
For that, you need to have a pull request in place.
You can also decide to have approvals in place,
how many approvals are required before the merging process?
And we have other options in place as well.
Let me go ahead and hit on create here.
I need to enter the password for my admin user,
and we now have the branch protection rule in place
and any, at any point in time, you can go ahead
and edit the branch protection rule.
In the Edge browser now as TLCUserOne,
let me go onto the code.
Let me go onto the main branch,
I'll go onto web app, onto pages, onto the index page.
Let me make a change here, I'll click on edit.
I'll put this as version seven, I'll scroll down,
change the index page onto version seven.
And now here, it's clearly telling us that we can't commit
onto the main branch because it is a protected branch.
We have to now go ahead and create a new branch
for this commit and start the pull request.
So let's take the proposed changes.
This will now create a new branch and we have to create now
a pull request.
In creating the pull request,
the emerging is blocked because a review is now required.
As my admin user now,
let me go on to my repository again.
I'll go on to the pull request.
I have one open pull request in place
that's changing of the index page, let me click on this.
I can add my review now.
So I can see the review is fine.
I can click on review changes, I can hit on approve.
I'll say approved, submit the review,
and now the changes are approved.
If I go back now as my TLCUserOne,
it's also refreshed here, the changes have been approved,
and I can now merge the pull request and confirm the merge.
So now we've added kind of a process in place
for any changes that need to happen onto the main branch,
and we can do this with the help of this branch policy.

--- Tagging in git ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through tagging in Git.
You can use tagging to specify which commit is
basically important in your entire repository.
Yes, we do have branches in place
but you can also use tagging
to tag specific commits.
For example, if you want to mark any release points
you can do this with the use of tags.
Now, the two types of tags
you have a lightweight tag and you have an annotated tag.
The lightweight tag is just a pointer
onto a specific commit.
In the annonate tag.
These are actually stored
as full objects within the Git database.
These are actually check some.
They contain the tagger name,
they email, and the date, and they have a message.
And they can also be signed and verified as well.
Let me now show you an example on creating a very simple tag
from within Visual Studio Code.
So I wanna make use
of our simple text based files that we have
in Visual Studio Code.
I'm currently on the main branch.
My branch is actually ahead of the origin,
which is my remote repository,
but that is fine.
Yeah, I just wanna show the use
of tags that we can have on our local system.
Let me tag this current commit that we have.
The current commit that I am on.
Yeah, I'm gonna create an annotated tag wherein
let me give an annotation and I can give a tagging message.
This is version one, let's say,
of my application code.
We now have the tag in place.
Let me now make a change onto file A.
(typing sounds)
I'll save my changes.
Let me do a Git add
for file A.txt,
and then let me do a Git commit.
(typing sounds)
This is done.
Now, if I do a Git log,
a simple Git log.
If I scroll on top.
You will see that our head is pointing
onto the recent commit that we have made
and we also have, now, a tag in place
onto a previous commit,
to denote that, up to this commit,
this actually points
onto version one of our application code.
I'll hit on the Q button to exit from here.
If I issue a Git tag statement,
you will see all the tags that are part of the main branch.
Now, if I issue the command
of creating the tag again,
it'll tell that tag already exists.
If I do a Git show
of version 1.0
you will see details about that specific commit.
Again, I'll hit on the Q button.
So in this chapter,
just kind of wanna go through
the concept of tags that are available from
within Git.

--- Note on data recovery ---

(upbeat intro music)
-: Now in this chapter, I just wanna give a quick note.
When it comes onto maintenance and data recovery in Git.
In this documentation page,
it turns that Git automatically runs it's auto GC command.
It's like a garbage collection command.
See, when you start making a lot of commits
onto your repository, there may be some commits
that were linked onto objects,
that no longer correspond onto the history
of that Git repository.
So there may be some objects that now
are not being used at all,
or are not being tracked as part of the repository,
but they are still there.
This can happen over time when you're doing several commits
for the repository itself.
Hence, Git will occasionally see
if there are any objects that are not being referenced
and then go ahead and delete them accordingly
because you don't want to have your repository
with objects that are not being version controlled.
You can also run this command manually as well.
On this page,
you have a lot of information
when it comes on to data recovery.
Another good command when it comes on
to kind of compressing your repository,
ensuring that it does not have any sort of stale objects,
is the Git Prune command,
the other the command that can be used
to remove stale objects.
So in this chapter,
just kind of want to give these important notes
when it comes on to maintenance and data recovery in Git.

--- Note on large files in Git ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just want to talk about large files
when it comes onto your Git repository.
Up 'til now, we have seen simple text based-files
and we have also looked at code within Visual Studio.
Here, I'm just giving examples
when it comes onto the documentation given for GitHub
when it comes onto hosting large files.
See, normally in your code repositories
you should not be hosting large binary-based files.
And what do I mean by this?
See, in Visual Studio, you have your code files in place.
When you build your project
into an application that can run,
that build which gets created by Visual Studio
should ideally not be part of version control.
It's your code that needs to be part of version control
because that is what you change.
But the application that gets built out of it,
that binary files, those set of binary files
that will probably host on another server to run,
has an application,
that should ideally not be a part of version control.
That's why in Visual Studio
you have this gitignore file by default
that ensures that these sort of files
are not put as part of version control.
But apart from that, if you do have a requirement
for having large files as part of your repository,
maybe you might have videos, images, et cetera.
There are options wherein you can use a tool
known as Git LFS.
This is actually used,
you need to install the tool first.
It is efficient in managing large files
as part of your repository.
What you can do here with the help of this tool,
so we're gonna go into depth into usage of this tool.
But I just wanna give an overview.
What you can do is with the help of this tool,
you can host your large objects in another place
and this tool can actually reference those large objects
via links within your repository.
So in your repository,
you'll just work with your repository as it is,
but when it needs to reference large files,
this tool will use kind of pointers
or reference mechanisms to reference those large files.
What I'll do is I'm gonna add this documentation link
as a reference.
You can actually go through all of the parts
when it comes onto managing large files.
In this chapter, just wanna kind of give this note
when it comes onto managing large files
as part of your Git repository.

--- Branching strategies ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter I just wanna give quick notes again
when it comes onto branching strategies.
So we've already talked about this before
wherein you have your main branch
which will normally contain your production code,
your working production code,
and always ensure that you have high quality
for your main branch.
Make sure there are no sort of issues or defects
in the code that's present in the main branch
because at any point in time you might want to deploy
the code
from the main branch onto a particular environment.
It should contain a working copy of your production code.
And then when you want to have any sort of features
or bug fixes for your application code,
then create separate feature branches
and then you can merge the feature branches
onto your main branch,
and make sure that you use pull request.
We've already seen the use of pull request
in both GitHub and in Azure Repos.
We have seen how we can have reviews also in place,
you know, in terms of branch policies.
This is available, again, both in GitHub
and in Azure Repos.
When you're creating feature branches,
make sure that they are not too long, basically, you know?
Keep them short-lived just for that feature itself.
Make the changes,
merge onto the main branch
and then you can go ahead and probably delete
the feature branch if it's no longer required.
Another thing that you can do when it comes onto,
let's say, merging different releases of your application...
So on one side you could have your main branch
which has your working code for your application.
When you have a particular release of your application,
let's say version one or version two,
we've seen that we can have tagging in place
when it comes onto versioning of your particular commits,
but you could also have a separate branch
that is only dedicated for a particular release.
You can make a copy of the release branch
and then of the release branch,
you can create another feature branch.
See, sometimes companies might need to have
their application delivered to multiple customers
and each customer might want to have
different feature requirements for the application code.
So let's say you have one application
in place as a company,
but then you are delivering that same application
to multiple customers
and each customer might be having their own requirements
when it comes to adding new features.
Hence, you might have the main branch has,
you know, a working copy of your code
and you might have separate release branches
for each customer,
and for each release branch
you might have different feature branches.
It all depends on the complexity
of your requirements, you know?
How do you actually manage your application code base?
But always in this particular scenario,
you have complexity in place when you have release branches,
feature branches and your main branch
because you have to ensure that your feature branch
at some point in time is obviously merged
onto your release branch,
and then your release branch might need to be merged
onto your main branch.
So you have to maintain multiple branches
in this particular aspect,
but this is something that you can also do
when it comes onto a branching strategy.
So in this chapter,
kind of again wanna go through some important aspects
when it comes onto branching.

--- Azure Repos - Starting off ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
So now it's time to see how we can make use
of Azure Repos for hosting our Git repositories
within Azure DevOps.
So where did we leave off from?
Remember, we had our entire organization in place.
And within the organization,
we had some projects in place.
This was our initial project
and now we are working on this Agile project.
Let's go ahead on to our Agile project.
I'm currently logged in as the admin user.
Within our project,
we had dashboards in place,
we had a small wiki.
In Azure Boards, we had work items in place.
So we had gone through the entire Azure Boards feature here.
It's now time to go on to repos.
When you go ahead and do this,
you will see that there is a default Git repository
with the same name as a project that gets created.
You can now upload code, like you do with GitHub
onto Azure Repos.
So again, this is like a remote repository for you
on the internet.
So you could either use GitHub for hosting your code
on the internet or you can make use of Azure Repos.
Here to again push code, we can add a remote origin
and we can push all of our changes.
From Visual Studio Code now,
let me open up another folder.
See, this working folder of mine
is now kind of linked and tagged onto my GitHub repository.
Since I now want to have something different in place
for Azure Repos, it's now good
to have another working directory in place.
I have created on my C drive a folder known as repos,
and I have added file A and file B, a fresh version
in that particular working folder.
From Visual Studio Code, let me go ahead
and open up that folder.
So in C drive, I have a repos folder.
I'll open up this.
I just have filea.txt and fileb.txt.
I have not done anything.
I have not initialized the repository.
Let me go on to the terminal now.
And as always, the first thing we'll do
is to initialize and empty Git repository
within this folder.
So again, both of our files are not tracked.
Let's do a Git add to add both of our files.
And let's do an initial commit
onto our local repository.
This is done.
Now, let me copy the command.
First to add the remote origin.
I'll just copy it till here.
I'll do a Control + C.
Let me right click on my mouse
to add the remote origin.
Let's now try to push all of our code here
onto the origin.
It is now popping up the Git Credential Manager
that'll allow us to log in basically
onto our Azure DevOps account
so that we can push changes
onto that Azure Repos Git repository.
So again, so Azure Repos again
is just like GitHub that allows you
to host Git-based repositories
but it has much more functionality.
It has integration with the other tools
within Azure DevOps itself.
I'll log it at the moment as my admin account.
I'll go on to next.
Just enter my password.
And it has gone ahead and pushed the objects.
Here if I refresh this entire page,
I can see my files in place.
And then we can start making our normal changes.
So if I go back here,
let me make a change, let's say onto file A.
Let me save the change.
Let me do a Git add
for file A.
Then let's do a Git commit.
And again, please note here,
we are still in the main branch
in this new working repository.
We don't have or we've not created any sort
of other branches.
Again, going simple on how do we push changes
onto Azure Repos and make simple changes
onto the local repository?
And then push all of our changes back onto Azure Repos.
Again, this is done.
If I hit on Refresh again,
you can see a change was just made on to filea.txt.
You will see the contents of the file.
If you go on to the history,
you will see the commits for this particular object
within the Git repository.
So a lot of similar features over here.
Again, another way of having your Git repository
on the internet via the use of Azure Repos.

--- Azure Repos - Branches ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter,
I want to go ahead and create a branch
in my local repository and then push all of those changes
again onto Azure Repos.
Sort of operations again, I told you,
that you are doing when pushing your changes onto GitHub,
you can also do it Azure Repos.
I'll go again onto Visual Studio Code.
Let me clear the screen.
Let me do a Git checkout again here, but create a branch.
Let me name this as Feature B.
We are now switched onto the new Feature B branch.
Let me go onto File B, just adding some change content.
Let me save this.
Let's go ahead and stage this file
and then let's do a Git Commit.
I'll hit on Enter.
Now let me push all of my changes onto Azure Repos.
All I do is, let me do a Git checkout of my main branch.
Let me issue the command to push my changes onto the origin.
Now, it has gone ahead and create a new branch, Feature B.
See in my command,
when I'm pushing it onto the origin,
I'm specifying All so that all of my changes
in all of my branches are pushed onto the remote repository.
If you only want to push changes
based on your main repository,
you can specify the branch name here.
This will only push changes
if they are there in your main branch.
So with the flag of All,
you can push all of your branches and their changes
onto a remote repository.
Now here, if I go onto my branches,
I can see my Feature B branch in place.
Here, if I go onto File B.ext,
this is a change that's part
of that particular feature here, Feature B.
So up until now, what we've done is
we have only gone ahead and pushed a branch
from our local repository onto Azure Repos.

--- Azure Repos - Pull request ---

(funky music playing)
Speaker: So in the prior chapter,
we had gone ahead,
and pushed a new feature branch from our local repository
onto a GIT repository hosted in a Azure repose.
Remember that when we worked with GitHub,
when we wanted to merge a branch,
a feature branch with our main branch,
we had to perform something known as a pull request.
Well, we have to do the same thing here as well.
If I go on to branches under repose here,
if I go onto my feature B branch,
I can create a new pull request to merge the changes
of this feature branch into my main branch.
Because if I go onto my main branch here in Azure repose,
if I go onto file B.txt,
you will see the changes are not in place.
The changes to file B have been made as part of feature B.
Going back onto branches for feature B,
let me go ahead and create now a new pull request.
I can give a title, I can give a description.
I can go out with the creation of the pull request.
It's checking for any sort of merge conflicts.
Again, everything is kind of similar
to what we've seen in terms of functionality in GitHub.
Yeah, there are no merge conflicts.
I can now complete this process of the pull request.
In terms of the merge type,
we have different options in place.
We can do a fast forward merge.
That's something we can do here,
because we've not made any changes onto our main branch.
We have made changes onto a feature branch,
and then we are merging those changes onto the main branch.
I can complete the entire merge process.
If I now go onto my branches here,
if I go onto my main branch,
if I go onto file B.txt,
I can see the change is part of feature B.
Let me just quickly go back onto branches here.
If I go onto all,
I can see only my main branch in place.
What happened to my feature B branch?
Let me go onto my pull request,
go onto those that have been completed,
go and click on the pull request.
If I click on show details,
in terms of the merge strategy,
it's showing has a rebase and a fast forward,
and the source branch was also deleted.
When we had chosen the merge strategy in that screen,
remember, there was an option to delete the branch
once the merge was complete.
So please note these options that are available,
when you are working with a pull request.

--- Azure repos - Importing GitHub repos ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through
how you can import a repository that you have
from within GitHub onto Azure Repos.
In the earlier chapter,
we had a web app repository
within our DevOps 6,000 organization.
Can we import this entire repository into Azure Repos?
And the answer is yes, this is possible.
Here, if I go onto my project,
I could either create a new repository
and do the import process,
or I could directly import a repository.
I need to give a name for my new repository, that's web app.
What is my clone URL?
If I go onto my code here, this for the web repository,
under code, I can copy this URL.
I can place it here.
Now, we do need authentication
because we need some way of authenticating ourselves
from Azure DevOps onto GitHub.
I'm gonna be using my username
of techsupport4000@gmail.com,
and we could use either a password or a PAT.
PAT is a personal access token.
The token is another way of authorization.
I'm gonna use the method of the personal access token.
How do we get this personal access token?
Here, within my profile,
I'm gonna go onto settings.
Under settings, I'll scroll down.
There is something known as developer settings.
Under developer settings,
we have something known as personal access tokens.
I can now generate a new token.
I can give a note, what is this token for?
I'll just say, Azure Repos.
There is an expiration date,
and what is a scope?
So what access do we want to give?
What permissions do we wanna give as part of this token?
From a repository perspective,
I'll give access onto the public repositories,
and onto the commits status.
And I'll just scroll down,
and just give access to read the profile data.
That's it.
I won't give any other permission.
I'll scroll down.
I'll generate the token.
I'm gonna copy the personal access token now,
because it says you will not be able to see this again.
I'll copy the personal access token.
Let me paste it here,
and let me click on import.
It'll now use my authentication mechanism
of the personal access token
to import the repository
from GitHub onto Azure Repos.
And now, it's saying it's done.
We can click here to navigate onto the code view.
Actually, it's only done this for us.
If I go onto the history,
we can see that the history has also been copied.
So, very easy way
in importing your repositories
from GitHub onto Azure Repos.

--- Azure Repos - Branch policy ---

(funky intro music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now,
when we were looking at the pull request
in GitHub,
there was an option
wherein we could protect our main branch.
Can we have the same sort of protection
also available in Azure Repos?
And the answer is yes.
If I go onto my branches,
in my main branch
if I choose the context menu,
here, I can create a new branch.
If I scroll down,
there is something known as branch policies.
Let me go ahead and choose branch policies.
In branch policies,
we have different policies in place.
For example, if you need a minimum number of reviewers
to review the request,
we can go ahead and decide on that.
If I scroll down,
you can check for linked work items,
comment resolution,
you can also limit the merge types, as well.
For now, let me just have a branch policy in place,
which requires a minimum number of reviewers.
Here, I'm logged in as the admin.
In another browser tab,
I have logged into Azure DevOps as TOC user one.
Remember, we had added this user onto our organization
and subsequently onto our project.
If I go onto my Agile project,
if I go onto a Azure Repos,
I can see both of my files in place.
I'm on the main branch.
Let me try to create a new branch here.
(keyboard typing)
I'll name this as Feature C,
based on the main branch.
Let me hit on "Create".
I am now in the Feature C branch.
Let me make a change onto File B.
I'll click on the edit button here itself.
(keyboard typing)
Adding some content,
and we can do a commit here itself,
similar to creating commits from within GitHub onto files,
We can do it within Azure Repos, as well.
We can add a commit.
It's in our Feature C branch.
I'll hit on "Commit".
So now we've committed a change onto this Feature branch.
I now want to merge this Feature branch with my main branch.
Please note, I am still logged in as TOC user one.
Let me go onto branches here.
For my Feature branch,
let me create a new pull request.
I'll leave everything as it is and choose "Create".
Here, it is saying
that you need at least one reviewer
to approve this particular pull request.
What we can do, as the Azure admin,
let me go onto my project,
onto Repos.
Let me go onto my pull request,
onto ones that are active.
I'll go onto the one that is requested by TOC user one.
I'll click on this.
Let me choose the "Approved" button and approve it.
So now it is approved.
If I go back onto the Edge browser,
I can see that it has been approved.
Here, then, I can complete the pull request
and I can go ahead and do a rebase and a fast forward.
So there's something that you can also limit,
in terms of merges, that can be done.
If you want, you can delete the Feature C branch
after merging.
Let me complete the merge process...
...and this is now done.
So the pull request is complete.
In this chapter,
wanna show you how you can add protection
onto your main branch with the use of a branch policy.

--- Azure Repos - Branch policy - Work items ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Now in this chapter,
I want to give another example
when it comes on to using the branch policy.
For my main branch I'll go on to branch policies.
Earlier on, we had put a requirement
for a minimum number of reviewers.
Let me go ahead and disable this
and let me put a check for linked work items.
That means that whenever there is a request
for a change that we made onto this branch
via the pull request,
you need to have a linked work item in place.
Right, so we have this.
What does this mean?
See, whenever we are making a change,
like let's say a feature is there, right,
onto application code and we're having a new branch.
Obviously, there should have been someone
who added maybe a user story in Azure Boards
or maybe a task as part of the user story
that is linked onto this particular feature.
Because it's only because a request is there
for a work item in Azure boards
that you're making this change.
It's always good to have these links in place
so that you know for what reason are you making a change
onto the application code.
Hence, you can only now merge changes onto this branch
if the check for linked work items is in place.
So let's look at an example.
Let me go onto repos again,
here for My Agile Project.
Let me go onto branches.
Let me create a new branch.
I'll hit on create.
At the moment you can see
I'm not linking any work items onto this branch.
I'll choose create.
Let me go onto my files.
Let me switch over onto the feature D branch.
Let me make a change onto file A.txt.
I'll click on edit.
Let me choose commit,
updated the file on this feature branch.
Let me hit on commit.
Now let me go onto branches for the feature branch.
Let me create a new pull request.
Let me create the pull request.
And now it's saying that the required check is failed.
So even though there are no merge conflicts
there has to be a work item in place.
This needs to be linked onto a work item.
Now in Azure Boards, we do have a lot of work items
in place.
So we can just go ahead link a work item.
I'll go back.
Here under work items I can choose one of the tasks,
so I'll just choose any task for now.
And now the check has succeeded.
We can now complete the pull request
and complete the merge process.
So (indistinct) example on how you can use a branch policy,
I told you it's always good practice to link your work items
so that you know why are you making this change
onto your application code in the first place.

--- Azure repos - Branch security ---

(funky music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to branch security.
So we had gone through something known as branch policies.
But if I go onto branches,
if I go onto my main branch,
we have another option known as branch security.
If I go onto it,
you can actually decide
on the different permissions that are allowed
when it comes onto this particular main branch
within the repository itself.
If you want to give specific permissions onto a user,
that's something that you can also do
has a permission.
This is not only available
at the branch level
if you go on to managing your repositories here.
If you go on to security,
again, you have user permissions
on all repositories that are also available.
So if you want to give permissions
such as read or renaming repositories,
that's all, that's something you can do
as part of security
for all of your repositories.
We can protect our branches
with the help of branch policies.
We also have security
when it comes onto branches.
We have security when it comes onto all repositories.
And you have certain number of policies
that can also be defined
under all repositories as well.
In this chapter, I just want to
kind of give a quick note
when it comes onto branch security.

--- gitignore file ---

(Upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through a special type
of file that's known as a Gitignore file.
Now sometimes in your working directory you might
want some files that don't need to be version controlled.
So for example, when you look at your code base files
in Visual Studio for a particular project,
by default it adds a Gitignore file
when you create a local Git repository.
This Gitignore file is going to have specific type
of files that should not be version controlled.
See for example, when you build your application
at that point in time you don't want that build to be part
of version control.
No, it's only your code files.
The build is something that you actually deploy
to your end users.
You might deploy it on a web server,
you might deploy it on a machine.
That's your deployment binary files.
They don't need to be part of version control.
It's only your code files which actually
undergoes changes that should be part of version control.
Hence, if we want certain files to not be version controlled
as part of your working copy,
you can create something known as a Gitignore file.
Just to showcase how we can do this, I'm just going
on to Visual Studio code wherein I have two files in place
as part of a local Git repository.
Let me go ahead and just clear the screen.
Let me create a new file here.
Let me need this as file c.txt.
I'll just say that this file is not
(computer keyboard tapping)
going to be tracked.
You can see it's unstaged.
Let me go ahead and save this.
Right, so since it's unstaged, then I have to do a Git add,
after a Git commit, right, I'll create a new file here.
I'll name this as .Gitignore.
It's a special type of file.
I just need to give the name
of the file that I need to ignore.
Please note that you can also have file patterns as well.
Are you saying please ignore file c.txt?
Let me go ahead and say this.
Once you have this in place
you can see the untracked symbol has gone
out of file C because it is no longer being tracked.
I need to know a Git add
and when I do a Git add let me do a Git commit.
But let me do a Git status first.
The only new file
that it has detected is a Gitignore file and not file c.txt.
So we still need the Gitignore file to be part
of our Git repository.
(Computer keyboard tapping)
So I'll do a Git commit saying add in the Gitignore file
and that's it.
So if you don't want a certain file, a certain number
of files to be tracked as part of version control,
you can go and create something known as a
special Gitignore file,
and specify those files that do not need to be tracked.

--- Azure repos - Publishing from Visual Studio ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
I wanna showcase how we can publish code
from Visual Studio onto Azure Repos.
We had seen that we could do this with the use of GitHub,
well we can do this with a Azure Repos as well.
Here, I'm logged in as my admin user
and if I go on to Repos here,
now I can create a new repository
for hosting my project-based files
from within Visual Studio.
But we can do this from within Visual Studio itself.
Here in Visual Studio, let me go in
and create a new project.
I want this just to be a fresh project.
Again, I'll search for ASP.NET Core web app.
I'll go onto Next.
I'll put this in my temp2 folder.
I'll just give a different project name.
I'll go onto Next.
Let's create the project.
And then we have to perform the same sort of steps
wherein we initialize a local Git repository
and then publish this onto Azure Repos.
Here from within Git,
I can choose to create, again a Git repository.
It'll initialize a local part, a Git repository.
And in terms of GitHub, so I don't need GitHub now,
I need Azure DevOps.
In Azure DevOps, you log in with your account,
you can choose your organization.
It'll load the project
and it'll create a new repository name.
Let me go and do a create and push.
So again, very simple process.
The same way in which we can publish something onto GitHub,
we can do the same thing with Azure Repos as well.
And now it has gone ahead,
we have the lock symbol in place.
Now in Azure DevOps,
if I go under my Agile project on my repositories
I can see my new app in place
and I can see all of the code files.
So it's very easy to go in and publish your code
from Visual Studio onto Azure Repos.

--- Deviation - Azure Pipelines ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
I want to deviate from working with Source Control.
I want you all to try a very important step
when it comes on to working with Azure DevOps.
The reason I bring this right now
is because it'll be helpful in the next section
when we are looking at Azure Pipelines.
what I want you to do is if you still have your dev project
in place,
please go onto it.
If not, you can go it and just create an empty project.
I want to now publish simple code from Visual Studio
onto a repository here in Azure Repos.
Hence in Visual Studio 2022, I'll just create a new project.
I'll choose an asp.net core web app.
I'll go onto Next.
I'll store it in one of my temporary locations.
I'm just gonna give a simple project name.
I'll go onto Next.
Let me then hit on Create.
Once I have the project in place, I'll go onto the Git Menu.
I'll create a Git Repository.
Here I'll choose Azure DevOps.
I'll choose my Admin account.
I'll choose my Dev Project.
I'll leave the repository name as it is
and let me perform a create and a push operation.
So I'm pushing our code from Visual Studio
onto Azure Repos.
Now once this is complete,
here now let me go onto my repository
so I can see my web app repository in place.
Now please go onto the pipelines feature
that is available in Azure DevOps.
Go ahead and create a new pipeline
in terms of where is your code.
Choose Azure Repos kit.
Choose the web app repository.
Here choose asp.net core.
Leave everything as it is.
Click on Save and Run.
Leave this also as it is.
Click on Save and Run.
Once this is done, click on the job here.
Now in the job, let me go ahead and just hide this.
We are getting an error.
It's saying no hosted parallelism has been purchased
or granted to request this grant.
Please fill out a form at this particular link.
There is this restriction that Microsoft places
on some of the new accounts when it comes onto Azure DevOps
and you just have fill out this simple form.
But then order filling out this form, it takes time.
It could take a couple of days
just to ensure that Microsoft enables this feature
as part of your Azure DevOps account.
And this is very important for the next section.
Hence let me copy this link.
I'll go onto a new tab.
I'll just give my name.
I'll give my email address.
What is the name of my DevOps organization
so I can just take this entire URL.
So this is my DevOps organization format.
Are you requesting for a parallelism increase
for public or private projects?
Here we will request for the increase
for a private project and then we'll hit on Submit.
And then hopefully after a couple of days,
we should be able to run the pipeline.
So since this does take time,
I wanna ensure that I include this video right now itself
so that you perform this request
in case if you get this similar error.

--- Deviation - Azure Pipelines - Completed ---

(upbeat music)
-: So after a couple of days,
when I come back on to the email address
for tech support 4,000,
I can see that I have received a response
on to my request and it was completed.
That means I should be able to now run a pipeline
within Azure DevOps.
I told you this is important for us
because when we go on to the subsequent section,
when we work with Azure Pipelines,
at least we're gonna have this in place.

--- Azure repos - Visual Studio - Cloning a repository ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in this chapter,
I quickly wanna show you
how you can clone the existing Git repository
that you've just published onto Azure Repos.
Let me go ahead and close Visual Studio,
and open up again.
So, opening up Visual Studio 2022 again.
Let me go again onto the option of cloning a repository.
On my local machine,
I'm again browsing onto C Drive, TOC user one part.
Now, within this folder, I don't have anything at all.
I've gone ahead
and deleted whatever project files I had earlier on.
This is just to showcase.
I told you that we can now browse for a repository,
a remote repository.
Here, ends up choosing GitHub now.
I'm gonna choose Azure DevOps.
Let me go ahead and choose this particular option.
I wanna log in now as TOC user one.
Let me go ahead and reenter my credentials.
(keyboard clacking)
I'm signing in as TOC user one.
This is, remember, onto my Azure DevOps organization.
Based on this, I should be able to see my projects.
So now, here I can see
that I have my organization in place.
I have my project,
and we have new app in place.
In case, if you can't see this go ahead
and just hit the refresh button
to see the repositories under your project.
Let me browse for my TOC user path
when it comes onto how to clone it locally on my machine.
So, browsing for TOC user one.
I'll hit on okay,
and let me hit on the clone button.
If I go onto the solution explorer,
I can now see my project in place.
And in the same concept,
we can go onto our index file,
make a change here.
(keyboard clacking)
Let me save this.
And then I can go onto get changes,
enter a commit message
(keyboard clacking)
I can do a commit all.
So, commit all and push.
It has pushed all of the changes.
If I go out of pages for a new app,
if I go onto my index page,
I can see the change in place.
All very similar concepts.
So from within Visual Studio,
you can perform the same set of steps
when you're working with either a GitHub remote repository
or with Azure Repos.

--- Azure repos - Microsoft Teams ---

(upbeat intro music)
Instructor: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just want to go through the integration,
that you have at Azure Repos and Microsoft Teams.
Just like Azure Boards.
Azure Boards has that integration with Microsoft Teams,
and Azure Board also has integration with Slack, as well.
And that's available with a Azure Repos.
Also, it's the same concept,
wherein you have the application within Microsoft Teams.
This time it's gonna be Azure Repos.
You first have to log in,
and then you have to subscribe, onto a repository.
And then, you can receive notifications, on your channel,
whenever code is pushed or checked in,
or whenever a pull request is created, updated, or merged.
All of this can be done from within Microsoft Teams.
What I've done is, I've again created a fresh project team.
I'm logged into, I told you, one of the accounts.
Using one of the users that I've created within a Azure,
via the Azure portal, and I've logged into Microsoft Teams.
I want to make use of Azure Repos within this team channel.
I can go onto apps, first.
I want to search for,
Azure Repos.
I'll choose this.
I can add this onto a team.
I'll choose my project team.
I'll set up a bot, again the same process.
It should add this onto our team.
And we have the bot in place.
The next thing that we need to do, is to log in.
Now, I'm gonna log as TOC User one.
In order to log as TOC user one.
You have to ensure that the user, initially,
when they want to log in and subscribe on the team channel,
they need to be part of the Project Administrator Group,
it comes on Azure DevOps project.
So let's confirm if we have this in place.
If I go onto my project settings, here.
Let me go onto permissions,
onto Project Administrators.
If I go onto members.
Okay, yes.
I confirm I have TOC user one in place.
Let me go back onto Microsoft Teams.
I'll just delete this.
Let me...
So, let me choose Azure Repos.
Then I want to sign in.
Let me send this request, to sign in.
So it's saying, we are already signed in, as TOC user one.
In case not, it might ask you to enter the username
and the password.
I now need to subscribe.
Let me choose the command, to subscribe.
When we are subscribing...
So if I go ahead and scroll down.
How do we subscribe, after the sign in process?
Now, if you want to subscribe,
we could either give the project URL
or we could give a repository URL.
So let's subscribe onto a particular repository.
Let me go onto Azure Repos, here.
Right, so let me just take this WebApp Repository
that I have.
I'll copy this entire link,
in Microsoft Teams.
Let me place it, here.
Hit on enter.
Let's see if we do subscribe
onto this particular repository.
And now, a subscription has been added
onto the pull request created notification.
Here we can see the target branch, is feature 100,
because we are on the feature 100 branch.
So it's taken that context currently, into consideration.
We can then refer onto the documentation,
when it comes onto the other commands that are available.
What's important to understand, is that from Microsoft Teams
you can actually subscribe onto notifications
from the Azure Repos service.

--- Azure Boards App with GitHub ---

-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter
I wanna showcase the integration
between Azure Boards and GitHub.
So we have a direct integration
between a Azure Boards and a Azure repos
that is possible wherein you can go ahead
and link work items
but we have an integration
between a Azure Boards and GitHub as well.
So currently I am logged in as my admin user
wherein I am on my repository.
Now, within GitHub there is something known
as the Marketplace.
There are different ways
in which you can actually integrate Azure Boards and GitHub.
One way is to go and install the Azure Boards app for GitHub
and we can do this by going onto the GitHub Marketplace
wherein you can add like certain applications
onto your GitHub account.
Let me go ahead and search for azure boards.
I can see Azure Boards in place.
Let me go ahead and click this.
I can click on Set up a plan.
It's free of cost.
Here in terms of the account,
let me choose Devops6000 and let me install it for free.
Again, there is no cost.
Let me complete the order and begin the installation.
In terms of the repository,
let me just select my repositories.
I don't want it to be for all repositories
so we can restrict this.
I'll choose my webapp repository.
I'll do an install and authorize.
I will now be directed
onto Azure Boards to complete the entire process.
I'll choose my admin account
when it comes onto Azure Boards,
since I'm already signed in.
I can choose to integrate this now with my AgileProject
I'll hit on continue.
Please note that in this earlier screen
you could also create a new organization
or create a new project.
So now it is a success.
I can hit on skip.
Now we have integrate Azure boards
with our GitHub repository.
Now how does this integration work?
Like an example.
Let me go onto my Work items.
Let me go onto any Work item.
Now, this work item is in the New state.
It has an identification number of TASK 18.
So basically it has an ID of 18.
We can actually link this onto a GitHub pull request.
If I go back onto GitHub,
so because I was moved onto Azure DevOps
in this particular tab
I can just go onto github.com
and I should be logged in as my admin user.
I can again go onto my Devops6000, my webapp.
Here now let me go onto the Feature100 branch that I have.
Let me go onto webapp.
Let me make a change onto one of the pages here.
I'll click on the edit button.
Just make a quick change here.
I'll scroll down.
Let me commit the changes onto the Feature100 branch.
Now that this is done, let me go on to pull request.
Let me create a New pull request.
I want to choose my Feature100 branch here
so it cannot automatically merge.
I want to now create the pull request.
Now we can write a comment over here.
I will put AB# and 18.
What is the task item id I want to
link this pull request onto?
Let me go ahead and create the pull request.
Once this is done,
you can see that it is now turned into a hyperlink.
Yes, a review is required
because we had that
as part of our GitHub basically branch policy.
If I right click on this link
and open the link in a new tab,
it'll take me on that Work item.
And if I go onto my Links here,
you will see that along with the parent link,
we also now have a link onto our GitHub pull request.
So we now have a linkage
between the item in Azure Boards and our pull request.
Again, you're having a complete tracking
between your work items in Azure Boards this time
and GitHub.
First, let me go ahead and resolve the conflicts.
I'll just take one version.
That's it.
Let's review this and mark it as Resolved.
I'll commit the merge.
Now since I am an administrator,
I can merge without waiting for the requirements to be met.
I can then merge the pull request.
I can confirm the merge.
So this is now complete.
The merge is also complete.
So in this chapter
I just wanna show you a way in which
you can actually integrate Azure Boards
and your GitHub account.

--- Team Foundation Version Control ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in this chapter,
we are gonna go through in brief
about Team Foundation Version Control.
We have been focusing primary on Git because
that is the most popular source code versioning tool.
But I just wanna go in brief
on Team Foundation Version Control.
This is a separate version control tool
that was developed by Microsoft some time ago.
This is a centralized version control tool.
This is in contrast to Git
which is a distribute version control tool.
With Team Foundation Version Control,
a team member only has one version
of each file on their local machine.
The historical data for the files is held on the server.
Again, different when it comes onto to working with Git.
When you clone a project from a Git repository,
it not only has the files in place
but it also has all of the historical data.
So, if any comments were made onto the repository
that would also be stored.
But in the case of Team Foundation Version Control,
all of the historical data is stored on the server.
Now, before developers
can actually make changes onto a file,
they first need to check out the file from the server.
When it comes onto each file,
you can then also apply permissions at the file level.
So, this is different.
When you look at Git,
you can apply permissions either
at the repository level
or at the branch level.
Even in a Azure repost,
we could see security permissions
that could be applied either at the repository level
or at the branch level.
But when it comes on Team Foundation Version Control,
you can apply permissions at the file level also.
So let's go ahead and briefly see
how we can work with Team Foundation Version Control.
The way we're gonna do this is
by the use of Azure DevOps.
We need to create a new project
because by default when you create a project,
you have to decide whether you want to enable Git
as a repository management system for the project
or Team Foundation Version Control.
And both of the projects we configured,
both of them were set to Git.
So let's go ahead and create a new project.
I'll give a name,
just give a simple project name.
Again, private, in terms of advance,
it's fine that the work item process is basic.
You're in version control now,
we have to use Team Foundation Version Control,
I'll hit on create.
Once you have this in place now,
let's go on repos,
and in repos you can create a new repository,
but we do have some dollar/Team Foundation repository
in place.
Here, you can create a new file,
you can create a new folder,
you can also upload files,
download a zip, etc.
Let's see how we can upload a project from Visual Studio.
So here I've opened up Visual Studio 2022.
Let me continue without code for the moment.
In order for Visual Studio to use Team Foundation now,
because currently it's using Git.
We have to go onto tools, go onto options.
We have to search for source control basically.
Under source control there is something known as
a plugin selection.
In the plugin selection,
we have to change it from Git
onto Visual Studio Team Foundation Server,
we'll hit on okay.
Here, I'll close tab
when it comes onto Git changes.
Let me go back on the tools options,
normally I want to confirm
whether the plugin selection was changed
because sometimes it does change back onto Git
so it is showing us Visual Studio Team Foundation server,
so that's fine.
Let me go onto view.
I need to open up now Team Explorer.
In Team Explorer, I'll just close this.
Let me hit on the manage connections button here.
I'll choose then to connect to a project.
Let me log in as my tech support 4,000 user.
I'm gonna choose now my Team Foundation repository
and then I'm gonna hit on connect.
In terms of the workspace,
we first have to map our workspace.
So I'll map my workspace onto a local temporary folder.
I'll click on map and Git.
Once this is done,
we now need to create a new project here.
We've already configured our workspace.
Now, I'll go onto a new
and let me create a new project.
I'll choose ASP.NET Go, go onto next.
Let me just give a name for the project.
Go onto next and hit on create.
Once I have the project in place,
I'll go onto the Solution Explorer.
I'll now choose the file menu.
I'll choose the option to add to source control.
I'll choose my Team Foundation project location.
Everything seems to be fine, I'll hit on okay.
So now we've added this onto source control,
now I need to go onto file again.
On source control, I need to do a check-in.
I need to include all of my 76 items,
that's basically part of my project.
I can give a quick description or recommend
and then I can do a check in.
So, do you want to check in?
I'll click on yes.
The first step is to go ahead and check in
all of your code onto the Team Foundation repository.
Now here, if I hit on refresh,
we can see our team app in place.
We can see the pages and everything is fine.
Now, if I go onto Solution Explorer
you can see the lock symbol.
If I now want to make a change,
if I go onto let's say the index html page.
So, I'm making a change here.
Once this is done, I need to right click
and check in the changes or click on save.
I need to basically give a comment
and I can do a check in from here.
So, this is done.
It creates something known one as a change set.
If I go onto my pages here,
let me go onto the index page
and go onto the history,
you can see the history over here as well.
So the way that you actually work with version control
in Team Foundation is a little bit different.
But in this chapter,
I just wanna kind of give you an idea
when it comes on to working
with a Team Foundation repository.
But remember that the prime focus
when it comes on to version control is the usage of Git.
And that's why we focus completely
on how we can use Git as a version control system.

--- Note on public and private projects ---

(upbeat funk music)
(music fades out)
-: Now, in this chapter I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to private and public projects
that you have in a Azure DevOps.
When we've been creating a new project,
by default we can only create a private project.
There is actually a setting in place
at the organization level.
So, if I go onto the organization
and go onto organization settings,
if you go onto policies under security
you can allow the use of public projects.
The main difference between
a public project and a private project is
users don't need to be signed in onto a service
and they can have read access onto public projects.
Whereas for private projects, they require users to
first be granted access onto the project
and then signed in to access these services.
So, normally in an organization,
you'll actually create private projects
so that users actually sign in with their credentials
and then get access onto projects.
It's kind of also the same way
when you create a GitHub repository.
When we've been creating a GitHub repository,
we've been creating a public repository.
Now, for example,
if I take this same URL right here,
I'm actually logged in as Tech Support 4,000.
If I open up the Edge browser,
okay, I'm signed in as DOC User 1,
let me go ahead and sign out.
I'll enter the same URL,
and I can still see the entire project, the entire code.
I don't need to sign in.
This is because it is a public repository.
If you have a repository
that you wanna share with users on the internet,
then you can actually go ahead
and create a public repository.
If you want users to actually be signed in
so that they can actually work with the repository,
then you probably create a private repository.
In our case, we've just been working
with kind of demo code, very simple code.
As well as went ahead and create a public repository.
When you do create a public repository,
obviously you need to take care of your repository.
For example, anybody could make changes
onto your code, et cetera.
That's why you have a lot of settings
in place for your repository.
If I go onto the page where I'm logged in
as Tech Support 4,000..
If you go onto settings,
one of the things that we have seen
is when you go onto branches,
you have branch protection rules in place.
This is very important.
You have a lot of security aspects
that help you protect your repository.
If it's a public based repository.
In this chapter, I just wanna kind of give this quick note,
when it comes onto private and actually public projects
when it comes onto Azure DevOps.

--- Note on the usage of Slack ---

(upbeat music)
-: In this chapter, I just wanna give a quick note
letting you know that Azure Bots and Azure Repos
also has integration with Slack.
So just like Microsoft Teams, we have Slack.
That is a communication software
that can be used by organizations.
And if you wanna get notifications
when it comes on to your work items within Azure Bots
or your pull requests within Azure Repos,
there is integration with both Slack and Microsoft Teams.
When you scroll down, you will see the command,
for example when you're working with Azure Repos.
So if you wanna sign in, it's AZ Repos sign in.
And if you scroll down,
if you want to subscribe on to all Git repositories
within a project to give the project URL,
it's basically subscribe.
Or if you want, onto a particular repository URL.
In this chapter, just wanna kinda give this quick note
when it comes on to the integration
of these Azure products with Slack.

--- Cherry picking changes ---

(upbeat funky music)
Presenter: Now in this chapter,
I want to go through a concept known
as cherry picking.
What I've done here is I had create, now again
a new empty folder on my C drive.
I again have file A.txt, file B.txt.
Currently, if I do a get status, I'm actually
on my feature branch.
Let me actually go onto my main branch.
In my main branch, I have two commits.
One is the initial commit
and next is a change made onto file A.
In file B, I haven't made any change.
Then I create a feature branch.
If I do a get log, here I made two changes.
One was feature branch change B
and feature branch change C.
I made no changes onto file A.
Now I could, let me go back onto my main branch.
Using cherry pick, I could take the commit made
onto the feature branch, just change B and put it
onto the main branch.
You can choose commits from any branch
and then add it accordingly
onto your source branch or your main branch.
Just to show you an example
I can use the cherry pick command.
Here then I'll take what is the ID, now this ID
corresponds onto this feature branch
change B that has been made.
So in file B, we don't have this change in place.
I'll right click on my mouse to put in that commit number.
Let me hit on enter.
Now we can see feature branch change B has come onto file B.
Remember, we are still on the main branch
and if I do a get log, I can see the initial commit
the main branch, and now even the feature branch itself.
So I'm just cherry picking a commit from another
branch and putting it onto my main branch.

--- What are we going to cover ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now before I actually go on to this section,
I wanna explain how I'm going about
this section of the course
when it comes on to designing and implementing
Build and Release pipelines.
This section has a lot of objectives in place.
Hence, instead of actually putting all of these objectives
within one section itself,
I'm breaking this down into multiple sections.
In this particular section,
we are gonna cover build pipelines.
Then in the next section, we will cover release pipelines
and so on and so forth.
I thought since this is a very big section,
let's go ahead and break it down
into much more meaningful, smaller sections.
So let's go ahead with just understanding build pipelines
as part of this particular section.

--- What is Continuous Integration ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in this particular section,
I told you that we are going to be covering build pipelines.
Now, build pipelines is part of a process
that's known as continuous integration.
The term of continuous integration implies onto being able
to automatically build and test code every time
a team member commits code changes onto version control.
In the prior section, we had seen
how we could store our code in abortion control system.
Basically Git,
we saw how we could use a remote repository
like GitHub and Azure Repos,
and every time we made a code change,
we could commit that code change onto our main branch
or maybe another feature branch onto our Git repository.
Now, the next step is obviously a developer would want
to build that application and run that application.
If a team is working on developing a web application,
they would want to have a build of that web application
in place and that build be deployed on, let's say, a server
so that users across the world could access
that web application.
Now, for the benefit of those students who are coming in
from an easy 104 background, write as your administration.
I briefly want to go
through this build and deployment process
before we go back onto continuous integration.
Why?
Because understanding the build process is very important
when it comes on to building your build pipelines,
when it comes onto continuous integration.
In the last chapter,
we have been publishing our code
onto a Git repository from Visual Studio.
Now, within Visual Studio itself, on your local machine,
you also have the ability to build your application.
When you actually run your application in Visual Studio,
what happens, it also builds your application as well.
The build tool actually builds the project
and its dependencies into a set of binaries.
These binaries can then run on the target machine.
Now, why is all of this required?
See, when you're developing a program,
this could be in Java, this could be in C#.
The language which you're developing in, it's easy for you
to understand how to basically code in
that particular language and you understand
how to implement a particular functionality,
but when you want to run that application on a machine,
remember the machine cannot understand
a programming language.
In the end,
the machine only understands how to run binary instructions.
Hence, there should be some way
to correlate your code, your application code,
into instructions that can be understood
by the underlying machine.
That's where the first step is
to build your application into a form
that can then be taken by something known as, let's say,
you're developing a .NET application.
You will have the .NET runtime running on the machine,
that would take the build of your code
and then interpret it into binary instructions
that can be understood by the underlying machine.
Hence, the first step is to take your code
and convert it on to a build
that could then be run on a target machine.
That target machine needs to have .NET also installed,
then you would only need to have the .NET runtime in place.
Normally, for a language, you will have the SDK,
which is a software development kit.
You create your code using this software development kit,
and when you want to run your code, you have another runtime
that needs to be installed on the machine.
So the software development kit actually allows you
to develop the application
and the runtime helps you to run your application.
So I said, in the next couple of chapters,
I just want to quickly go
through the build and the release process
because this is very important when you want
to understand the concept of continuous integration,
and then in the next section,
the concept of continuous deployment.

--- About the build process ---

(upbeat music)
-: So the first step is I just want to go
through the build process in Visual Studio.
Let me create again a simple asv.netco web application.
We had all these seen this earlier on.
Let me change my location onto temp three.
I'll just give a project name,
so you can have your project in any location.
Let me go on to next. So it's .net six.
We are basing our application on .net six.
Let's hit on create.
If you go onto the Solution explorer
you'll have your project in place.
You have your solution file in Visual Studio,
it's known as a solution file.
And your solution file will have a project file.
You can have multiple projects within your solution.
And then you have the various code files where it comes
onto your asp.net code application.
So if you go onto your buildup, it shows the overview.
You can see that it is targeting .net 6.0.
When I now run this application locally on my machine
you will see that a build has started.
Hence, Visual Studio will first create a build
of your application and then it'll go ahead
and run the build that was created.
Hence the first step is to build the application.
If you're working from Visual Studio
this process only happens internally.
That's why you'll not be aware.
It's building, yes, the application
and then it's running the application.
You're in the output.
You don't get much information when it comes
onto the actual build process.
We are looking at the debug process when it comes
onto running the application.
If you actually go on tools, if you go
on to options and let me search for build,
let me go, yeah, let me go onto build and run.
The MS build, the tool which is used
for building your application.
In terms of the build output, it's minimal.
If you set it on to detail and now let me hit on, okay,
we have just a build menu option in place.
I can choose to build the entire solution.
So you are saying that it's only up to date.
So let's do one thing onto the build menu.
Let's choose the rebel solution.
And now you can see a whole lot of information when it comes
onto the building of your solution.
So there's a lot that actually goes into
building your entire project, your entire solution
into kind of a build set that can then be run
as an application.
I said all of this is being done internally
by Visual Studio.
So quickly just wanna go
through the concept of the build process.

--- About the publish process ---

-: So in the last chapter,
I talked about the build process,
and we are now gonna be focusing on build pipelines
as part of this particular section.
But before that, I want to let you know
that in Visual Studio, once you have a build in place,
you can actually go ahead and publish this build
onto a target machine.
Here we have a web application in place.
You can go ahead onto your project here.
You can right click and choose Publish.
So if you're coming from an AZ-204 background
and even a 104 background, will be well aware
that of this ability of being able to publish
your project onto a target environment.
In Visual Studio, you have the ability
of directly publishing onto Azure.
You could also publish it onto a folder
onto this local machine.
So if I go onto Next, it will store
a published version of that build
in this particular location.
Let me hit on Finish.
It will create a published profile.
Let me hit on the publish button.
It is publishing everything onto our local machine.
You can see it'll first do a build
and then publish a new version of that build
onto your local machine.
You can go ahead and open up the folder.
In this folder, you need to copy now all of these files
onto your target machine, and assuming
that you are running Internet Information Services,
you can put all of these files as part of a new site
within the web server itself,
another option of being able to publish the build
of your entire project.
So in Visual Studio, as a quota, you will go ahead and code
your solution using the C sharp language.
You then build your entire project into a format.
You then publish that build onto a target machine.
That target machine should be running dot net run time
in order to run your dot net application.
If you are working with a Java project,
you'd be using the Java SDK to develop your project
and use the JRE, the Java Run time,
to run your application on the target machine.
Just wanna kind of give you an overview
on the release process.
I said in this particular section, we are focusing
on build pipelines, but I thought before moving on ahead,
let's have a quick note on the publish process.

--- Now going back to continuous integration ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So now I wanna quickly come back
onto the concept of continuous integration.
So continuous integration is the automatic building
and testing of your code every time a team member commits
code changes onto version control.
See, in our case, when we are working
with Visual Studio as just a sole person,
it's very easy to go ahead and build your application
and probably publish your application.
But you have to remember that within an organization,
you'll have multiple teams working on an application.
If you have a large application, you might have a subset
of developers who are working on the main application code.
You could have a subset of developers that are working
on bug fixes for let's say, application code
that could be in the production environment.
You could have a subset of developers that are working
on new features that need to be added onto an application.
You have to remember that you could have the scenario
in place wherein you have different developers working
on different aspects for your application.
Now let's take a use case scenario.
Let's say one of the development teams
has 8 changes that need to be in place for an application.
And having these changes in place
could take around three weeks.
Once all the changes are done,
the developer now wants to commit these code changes
onto the git repository, the remote git repository.
Let's say they are having a feature branch in place.
They then have a pull request,
they combine the feature branch code changes
to the main branch.
And now the application needs to be built and then deployed.
Now during the build process, let's say an issue comes up.
So after the build you might do some testing.
Now because there were so many changes that took place
in this three weeks of time
and there probably could have been changes made
by another team during this time duration itself.
It could be difficult to go ahead
and diagnose where exactly the issue lies.
Is the issue that the application is not working based
on these 8 changes that were taken by this team?
Or is the issue coming up
because the changes made by this team is not compatible
with changes made by another team?
And this is because we are taking a bulk
of the changes to the application.
And then after a long duration of time
we are combining those changes
with our main application code and then testing our code.
The ideal scenario is to go ahead and take each major change
and then commit it onto the code repository,
build the application, and make sure that it works.
So if there is one change that just takes
around maybe two days, after the second day
go ahead and merge that change
with the main branch in your code repository.
Build your application and make sure that it works.
Instead of taking everything as a bulk
and then trying to see if it works,
go ahead and make these changes on a continued basis,
hence continuous integration.
Now automation is very key over here.
We should not be manually trying to go ahead
and build the application, run the application
for each and every change.
This would not be the right approach.
That's where we need to have automation in place.
So as soon as a developer publishes the code changes
onto let's say, the main branch in that git repository,
the code needs to be built automatically
and the code needs to be tested automatically as well.
If everything is done in an automated fashion
it becomes easier to ensure that more
and more changes get published onto the code repository.
They get built faster and they get tested faster.
And this is the entire concept
behind continuous integration.

--- What are Azure Pipelines ---

(upbeat music playing)
-: So, now we are gonna see how do we use Azure Pipelines
within Azure DevOps.
With Azure Pipelines, you get automation in place
when you can actually go and build
and test your code projects.
You can use Azure Pipelines for both continuous integration
and continuous delivery.
It has a support for variety of programming languages
which includes Python, Java, PHP, Ruby, and C#.
You can also deploy your application onto multiple targets
or environments with the help of Azure Pipelines.
In this particular section, we are gonna be looking
at build pipelines when we build our application code.
And then in the subsequent section,
we look at the deployment aspect.
When defining your build pipelines in Azure Pipelines,
there are two ways
that you can actually go about doing this.
First is to define your pipeline as a YAML file.
So, YAML is just a human-friendly
data serialization language
that is available for all programming languages.
It's just a convenient way
in which you can actually define your data,
you can structure your data so that it can be understood
in a human readable format.
Hence, we can define our pipeline using the YAML syntax.
Here, the file will initially
be called Azure Pipeline.yaml,
and will be created and version controlled
along with your code.
When you create your pipeline using the YAML syntax,
it'll also be added onto your Git repository
within a Azure Repos.
The benefit of this is it allows you to identify now changes
within your pipeline that could break the deployment.
So you can go back onto previous versions
of your pipeline to see what is the working version
of your pipeline if a later on change
is actually breaking the entire pipeline process.
So, one way is to define your pipeline
using the YAML syntax, and we'll be focusing a lot on this.
So there's a lot of stress
when it comes on to using as Azure Pipelines
using the YAML syntax when it comes onto the exam.
We can also use the classic interface
when it comes on to define the pipeline.
This gives you a graphical interface.
Here, you can define your pipelines
with the use of this interface
and you can run your pipeline accordingly.
Now, in the next chapter,
let's see how we can start working with Azure Pipelines.

--- Creating a pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Now in this chapter,
let's start with creating our first build pipeline.
Now, your build pipeline needs to pick up the code
from somewhere to build it.
You can pick up your code from a repository hosted on GitHub
or within a Azure Repos
and there are other locations possible as well.
For the purpose of this particular video,
I'm gonna pick up code from one of the repositories
that I have in my project which you'd seen early on.
This is Web App.
This is again, the simple web application
that we have from Visual Studio
that we had published onto Azure Repos.
We'll use a code stored here to actually
create our build pipeline.
Now, before that in Web App
I have a lot of branches in place
and currently feature 100 is being taken
as my default branch.
I want my default branch to be actually my main branch.
For this, I can actually go onto branches.
I'll go onto the main branch
and set it as the default branch.
Now we can create a build pipeline based on our main branch.
For this, I'm gonna go onto pipelines now.
We have some options in place.
I'm gonna go ahead and choose pipelines
and I'm gonna create my first pipeline.
Now it is asking us where is your code being hosted?
Is it in a Azure Repos?
Is it in Bitbucket Cloud?
Is it on GitHub?
I said, I'm taking the repository
that I have in a Azure Repos.
So let me go ahead and choose this particular option.
Then it is asking us, okay, where is your code being hosted?
In which repository?
I'm gonna choose Web App?
Then it is gonna ask what type of application
are you trying to build?
So what's the underlying programming language?
Since we have an esp.net co-based application,
I'm gonna choose this particular option,
and now it is giving us a YAML definition
of our build pipeline.
Let me go ahead and just hide this for the moment.
There are some aspects within this particular YAML pipeline
which I will explain later on.
Here we have something known as the trigger.
So when any change happens on the main branch
within our repository it's gonna go ahead
and trigger this particular pipeline.
We have something known as the pool
wherein we have a VM image,
we have some variables and we have some steps.
And don't worry, I will explain all of this.
What I'll do is I'm just gonna delete this last task
of a VS test because this is not required.
This is the default definition that is given
for our YAML pipeline.
I'm gonna click on save and run.
Now when I do this, it is asking us
to set up a commit message
and it is committing directly onto the main branch.
So now your YAML code is going to be version control
along with your application code.
Hence, this is also gonna be now part of your repository.
I'm gonna do a save and a run.
It has now set up the pipeline.
It is now going to run a job.
Let me click on this.
What it's doing now, it's going through the various tasks
that have been defined in that particular pipeline.
It is first initializing the job.
It is then downloading all of the required tasks.
It is now performing the first task
which was to check out the code from our repository.
It's doing some other tasks as well.
It'll do a VS build task
which is actually gonna build our particular .net project.
And once this is complete,
it's gonna mark and end onto the job.
So what have we done so far?
We have gone ahead and create a very simple build pipeline
that's based out of YAML.
It has gone ahead
and picked up the code from our Azure Repository.
It has built the code accordingly.
Now, in the next chapter
let me explain what all has actually happened
when we built and created this particular pipeline.

--- So what exactly is happening ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So in the prior chapter, we had gone ahead
and create a very simple build pipeline
and we ran the build pipeline as well.
Here we can see the status
of the different tasks within the pipeline.
If you go onto any task here, it'll show you the log
of what all has actually happened as part of this task.
You can go onto every task
and you can see the log accordingly.
This is very good when you want debug
any sort of issues within your pipeline itself.
If I go onto this particular build,
this is the build that has just run,
this was the job that ran as part of the build.
You can see it took 39 seconds to complete the entire job
whereas the entire build pipeline took around 46 seconds.
If I go onto web app,
we can see the runs has part of this web app pipeline.
This web app pipeline
is based out of the web app repository that we have.
And if I go back onto pipelines,
here we have the recently run pipelines,
all of the pipelines that we have
and we can create a new pipeline from here itself.
If I go onto the web app pipeline, if I click on edit,
I can edit now the YAML configuration.
On the right hand side, you will see some tasks in place.
Now let me explain what exactly is happening now
in this YAML configuration.
Remember that this is kind of code
that is used to represent your build pipeline.
One of the biggest advantages of having this code in place
it is now version controlled
along with your application code.
And this makes it much more convenient
because I said if something breaks, when you make a change
onto the build pipeline,
you can revert back onto a prior working version
of the build pipeline itself.
So now what exactly is happening in this build pipeline?
I say the first thing is the trigger.
When should you trigger this pipeline?
So when any change is made
onto the main branch of your code repository,
then go ahead and trigger this pipeline.
Next is the pool.
Now, when you build an application in Visual Studio,
if you go onto Visual Studio,
you go onto the build menu and you build your solution.
It is building the solution on your local machine.
You are running everything on the cloud in Azure DevOps.
So once the code is taken,
where should you actually build this code?
Well, Azure DevOps has this feature
wherein you can make use
of something known as Microsoft-hosted agents.
These are virtual machines that are going to be spun-up
during this build pipeline,
this is based on an image known as Windows latest
and the code is going to be copied
from your repository onto this machine.
The code is going to be built here.
I said you need some sort of machine
to go ahead and build your code.
Well, the VM image that you specify here
is going to actually create a virtual machine
on the fly when this build pipeline is run
and it is going to build the code
on this virtual machine.
When this pipeline has finished running
Azure DevOps is gonna go ahead
and destroy this virtual machine.
And yes, you do have the functionality
of having your own-hosted agent which we'll see later on.
Here you have the feature of using a Microsoft-hosted agent.
This agent actually has the tools
that are required to build your application,
and what do I mean by tools?
Again, on your local machine,
what do you have for building your application?
You have Visual Studio.
Visual Studio internally makes use of an MS build tool
that is used for building your project
into the required binary files.
Well, the virtual machine that is spun-up here
will also have the required tools
for building your application.
I'll go through Microsoft-hosted agents
a little bit later on, but for the moment,
understand that when you run this build pipeline
it's going to create a virtual machine
that's gonna have the softwares in place.
Next, we have some variables.
These are just name value pairs that you can actually reuse
across your script.
Next, as part of your script,
you can have various steps that need to be performed.
These steps are nothing but tasks
that need to be carried out.
The first task is the installation of the NuGet tool.
The NuGet tool can be used to restore
any NuGet based packages
that you are using as part of your .NET project.
So what these tasks actually do is,
they send a request onto Azure DevOps
to perform some functionality.
And if you wanna understand what these tasks actually do,
you can go onto the definition of these task.
You have the Microsoft documentation
that have all of these tasks in place.
You have tasks for .NET, you have tasks for Java,
you have tasks for Python,
for the different programming languages,
you have tasks that can actually be carried out
as part of your pipeline.
If you go onto the documentation,
you will see the YAML snippet, you will see the arguments,
you'll see information about the task itself.
All of these tasks are going to be executed
on the virtual machine that is spun-up
based on the VM image Windows latest.
I told you I'll explain
about the Microsoft-hosted agent a bit later on,
but for now, understand that all of these task
are going to be carried out on that virtual machine
which will run as part of this build pipeline.
The next command is, this is all pertinent onto .NET.
The NuGet command is going to restore
any sort of NuGet packages that you might have
as part of your project.
And then finally, there is a task of VS build
that is used to build your entire project.
If you want to automate the building of your .NET project,
you could actually write a script on a machine
that could perform all of these tasks.
But then why would you want to write a script
when you can use these inbuilt tasks
which is part of Azure DevOps?
So all of these tasks are basically commands.
These commands sent instructions onto Azure DevOps
to perform some functionality.
I told you the first task was to install NuGet,
the second task was to restore the solution.
That's because in inputs
we're tending to restore the solution,
we are making use of the variable
and the variable is defined here,
so please go ahead and restore the solution files
which are available as part of your repository.
See, if you go onto the repository,
I just open Azure repo the link in a new tab.
Let me just write this.
In our web app in our main branch,
here we have our solution file.
So we're just telling the pipeline,
please go ahead and restore the packages
that are defined in our solution file.
Again, all of this is very pertinent on .NET.
And then finally, we have a VS build
with a lot of inputs in place,
and all of these are tasks.
On the right hand side,
you will see a lot of tasks in place.
These tasks basically carry out the required functionality.
You can actually choose the task from here,
it will add it on the left hand side onto your script.
So in this chapter, wanna give this initial understanding
about this YAML definition for Azure build pipeline.
Now as we go along,
we'll be seeing a lot more examples
when it comes onto constructing these YAML files.
And during the time
we'll actually get a better understanding
of defining these build pipelines.

--- Triggering the pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter,
I wanna showcase how this pipeline can be triggered
when any change is made on to the code repository.
Again it's very simple.
Everything is baked within the pipeline itself.
If I go on to my web app repository,
I'm on the main branch.
Let me go on to the pages
and make a very simple change on to the index page.
Or click on edit here, just change the version number.
Let me hit on commit and let me hit on commit here.
Right, so I've made a change on to one of the code files
within the repository.
If I go on to my pipelines now,
if I go on to my web app pipeline,
you will see another build has been initiated.
This is because it has gone ahead
and triggered this particular pipeline.
That change has triggered this pipeline.
If you go on to the run itself,
you can again go on to the job
and you will see again all of the steps being carried out.
So now any change that you made on to the main branch
of your code repository is now going to go ahead
and trigger a run of this particular pipeline.
That's the biggest benefit of now having
this sort of continuous integration process in place,
wherein any change can actually go ahead
and trigger this build pipeline itself.
I'll go ahead and let this carry on.
Let's mark an end on to this chapter.

--- Microsoft hosted agent ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through Microsoft-hosted agents.
So in your build pipeline,
since your build needs to run somewhere,
what Azure Pipelines will do
is it's gonna create a virtual machine
based on Windows latest.
We have chosen that
as the image to use to build the machine,
and that machine will take the code
from the Git repository in Azure Repos
and build our application accordingly.
If you go on to the documentation page
for Microsoft-hosed agent,
you will see the different images in place.
So we are using Windows Latest.
You can see you have images in place
for Ubuntu, Linux distribution and for macOS as well.
If you go on to the link of the included softwares,
you will see the softwares that are actually installed
on this particular image.
So when you create an agent or even build,
Pipelines creates an agent based on this particular image.
You have a lot of languages and runtime
that is already gonna be installed,
package management that's already gonna be installed,
tools that are already gonna be in place.
And this is all important.
See, on the machine
on which you're gonna build an application,
it needs to have the right tools
or the language installed on that machine
in order to build your application.
On your local machine on your workstation,
on your laptop, I said you install Visual Studio,
we would install everything that is used
for coding and running your application.
And when you want to build that application
on a remote machine, you need to have the right tools
in place for building that application.
So as part of the build pipelines,
we have this ability
to use the in-built Microsoft-hosted agents.
It's a quick way.
The agent will spin up.
It will build your application.
And then the agent will be destroyed
at the end of the pipeline.
Now, you might be telling me, Alan,
what's the point of building my application on this agent
and then losing that build
because the agent is gonna be destroyed in the end?
That means my build is also gone.
What's the point of building it then on this agent?
Well, there are a couple of options later on
that we need to see
on how do we carry that build onto the next stage?
So don't worry.
At this point in time,
we are just trying to focus on the build pipeline,
and the success of having a build in place
because that is also important.
Does your application build properly?
See, in our case, we have a very simple web application.
But then as you start making changes and changes
and you have many developers promoting changes
onto your application,
you are bound to run into issues
when you start building your application.
Now, as an exercise,
let's go ahead and use Ubuntu Latest
when it comes on to a build pipeline.
So I'll go on to my pipeline.
Let me click on Edit.
Here I've changed the VM image
from Windows Latest onto Ubuntu Latest.
See, .NET Core runs on both
or has the ability to run on either Windows and Linux.
That means I should be able
to build my application on Ubuntu Latest.
This should not be a problem.
So let me go ahead and run this particular pipeline
with this change.
Now, I've already gone ahead
and made a save onto this pipeline.
You will have the option of save and run.
I'm just gonna go ahead and run this particular pipeline.
I'll click on Run.
So I said in your case,
you will have a save and run option.
I've already gone ahead and saved my pipeline.
I can just go ahead and directly run the pipeline.
Now, once a job is complete,
I can see an error.
If I go on to the NuGet command,
it's saying it has failed with an exit code
and if you look at the error message,
it says that .NET SDK
does not support targeting .NET 6.0.
See, our application code
is targeting .NET 6.0 as the underlying framework
but it seems that in Ubuntu Latest
has an image, has an agent.
It does not seem to be having .NET 6.0 in place
as part of that machine.
And that's why it's not able to build our application code.
So I told you it's very important
to know the tools that are required
for building your application
and all of those tools
should be present on your target machine.
So let's move on to our next chapter
and let's see how we can resolve our issue
to make our pipeline work.

--- Self-hosted agent ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapters, we had gone ahead
and seen how to make use of the Microsoft hosted agent
when it comes on to some sort of compute agent
or compute machine for building a pipeline.
Here, the entire pipeline
is making use of the Microsoft hosted agent
and this is probably the simplest way to run a pipeline.
A fresh virtual machine is great
for each new job of the pipeline, and after the job is run,
the virtual machine is discarded.
Here, the biggest advantage is you get an agent
that has the capability of running your build pipeline,
and then all of the maintenance and upgrades
are handled by Microsoft.
So, all of the important security upgrades
when it comes onto the agent itself.
So the template that is used to build your agent
only has the right security patches in place,
so you don't need to worry
about maintaining that agent, right?
But then obviously, you'll be having the use case
wherein you might want to build your own agent.
There are various reasons for this.
Firstly, you might want to persist the builds.
I told you in the Microsoft self hosted agent,
the machine is destroyed at the end of the pipeline.
That means it budges,
it basically deletes all of your builds.
But let's say you want to have the builds
stored on a machine.
For this, you can create your own self hosted agent,
or maybe, you have some custom software
that needs to be installed that's required for the build.
You might be having a lot of third party components
as part of your application, and these need to be in place.
In this case also, you can use a self hosted agent
or maybe after the build process,
the build needs to be probably sent onto another location.
This could be on another server
in your on-premises environment.
At that time also,
you can look towards creating a self hosted agent.
Now, in the next set of chapters,
we are going to look at how to work with self hosted agents.

--- Lab - Deploying the self-hosted agent ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now we are gonna see how to implement self-hosted agents.
For this now we need to use our Azure account
for building an Azure virtual machine.
That's gonna behave as our
agent for building the application.
That's gonna be part of our pipeline.
Here I am in my Azure account.
I'm gonna build a Windows server 2019 machine.
Here in all resources, I'll hit on create.
I'll choose Windows Server 2019 Data Center.
I'll choose one of my existing subscriptions that I have,
I can create a new resource group.
I'll hit on okay.
I'll give a name for the machine.
I can choose a region for the machine.
At the moment, I don't need any available options.
I'll leave the size as it is.
I'll just specify a username and a password
that I can use for logging into the machine.
I'll go onto the next.
I'll leave everything as it is.
Go onto networking, leave everything as it is,
go onto management, advance, tags, review and create.
And let's go ahead and create this virtual machine.
Now let's come back
once you have the machine in place.
Once you have the machine in place,
let me go ahead onto the resource.
I'll hit on the connect button.
I'll choose RP, I want to now connect onto this Agent here.
I'll download the RP file.
I'll click on it or choose the username
or mention basically the username
and the password
that I had mentioned
during the creation of this machine.
Now remember, this machine is going to be used now
to build our .NET application code.
So what do we need to install on this machine?
We definitely need to install .NET 6.0 when it comes
onto the SDK
because this will be used
for building the application.
In addition to that, we also need to install the Git tool.
The Git tool is actually gonna be used to pull out the code
from Azure onto this machine.
So Git is also required as a tool.
I'll just wait for the server match dashboard to launch.
Once you have this in place, I'll go onto local server.
I'll just temporary turn off
I enhance security configuration so that we can actually
download the required tools.
I'll open up Internet Explorer on this machine.
I'll search for Git download.
I'll download for Windows
the 64 bit.
Click on run.
Again, we've already seen the installation of Git.
It's pretty straightforward.
In terms of the editor
I can basically use Notepad on this machine.
Can use again the main branch.
Go on to next,
then hit on install.
Now let me search for
.NET downloads.
So for .NET 6.0,
let me download the .NET SDK x64.
Let's just wait for Git to complete first.
So I'll just hit on finish.
Now for .NET six, let me download the SDK.
And click on run.
It's also again very simple, straight forward installation.
Let's click on install.
Should now perform the installation of the .NET SDK.
Once it's complete, I'll hit on close.
So now we've gone ahead and installed the required tools
on this machine that is going to behave as our agent.
Let's move onto our next chapter wherein
we perform the steps now to register this agent
with a Azure DevOps.

--- Lab - Registering the self-hosted agent ---

(bouncy music)
-: Now in our prior chapter,
we had created a virtual machine
that is gonna behave as our self-hosted agent.
I then want to make our pipeline
run a build on that particular agent,
and we've installed the required software.
We now have to register our agent
so that the build pipeline
can actually make use of this agent.
For that, we have to download a software on the machine
and then register it as an agent.
For this, I'm gonna go onto the machine itself.
Here, I'm going to sign onto a Azure DevOps.
I'm gonna sign onto my account.
This is on the VM itself.
Now normally in your production-based environments,
obviously you will have these files submitted
onto your IT administrators
who will perform the required steps
for registering this agent.
I'm trying to make things a bit more simple for us
because this is just a lab
on how we can make use of self-hosted agents.
Once I'm signed in, let me also bring up Notepad.
I want to copy something known
as a personal access token that we have to generate.
This personal access token will be used
by our self-hosted agent to authorize itself
to work with a Azure DevOps.
The way that we actually create this personal access token
is we go onto our profile here.
There is an option for personal access tokens.
I will create a new personal access token.
I'll just give a name.
In terms of the scope,
we have to decide now what is the access we want to give
as part of this personal access token.
It's like a password, but this password carries
some sort of permissions along with it.
Here we have to search for agent pools,
so I'll show all of the scopes.
I want to go onto agent pools.
I'll give both of these permissions,
and then I'll hit on create.
I'm gonna copy the password now itself
because it clearly says here
you have added the new personal access token.
Copy the token now itself
because it won't be available at a later point in time.
So I'll just paste it in Notepad.
Once this is done,
if I go back onto Azure DevOps,
if I go onto organization settings,
if I scroll down onto pipelines,
that is something known as agent pools.
We can actually create a new agent pool.
But let me use the default agent pool,
which is in place here.
So I already have some jobs,
which I had run as part of a previous exercise
as part of this organization.
Currently, I don't have any agents in place.
Let me go ahead and hit on new agent.
Then, based on whether you have a Windows machine
a Mac OS machine, or a Linux machine,
that is behaving has your agent,
it'll let you know on the steps
that you need to implement to ensure
that this machine now behaves
as an agent for your Azure DevOps organization.
I'll download the agent.
I'll click on save.
I'll open up the folder,
so it should be in my downloads folder.
I'll copy this.
Let me go on to my C drive.
Let's see if I can paste it here.
Let me extract everything here itself.
Now, once it has gone ahead and extracted the contents,
it could take some time.
It could take around three to five minutes.
We have some folders in place.
We have some files in place.
On this machine now, I'm gonna open up Windows PowerShell.
I want to go onto that folder.
So it's in the C drive, so VSDS.
I'll just put a tab on my keyboard.
It should then get the folder.
I'll go onto the folder.
There should be a config.cmd file in this particular folder
that will start the configuration process.
We first need to enter the server URL,
so this is our server URL.
You have the name of your organization.
Go into PowerShell.
Right click on my mouse.
Hit on enter.
The authentication type is PAT.
That's Person Access Token.
I'll hit on enter.
It is now asking us for the personal access token.
Go onto Notepad, let me copy this.
Again, right click on my mouse, hit on enter.
I'm gonna put as part of the default agent pool.
I'll hit on enter.
The default name will be Agent PM.
Again, I'll hit on enter.
It's scanning for tool capabilities.
What is the work folder?
Now if you want to have a separate work folder,
you can go onto your C drive,
create a new folder known as work,
and here I can do a C drive and work.
Just to mention, this is gonna be the working folder.
Do you want to run the agent as a service?
Yes. I want to run the agent as a service.
Here, I'll also put this as yes for the agent service.
Here, I just need to press enter.
Here also for the last step, I'll hit on enter,
and now this agent should be connected.
If I close this now,
under the agents currently, it's showing as offline.
Let me just refresh this page.
So we can now see that it is online,
so it just takes a minute for the agent to be online.
And now that it is online, we can make use
of this self-hosted agent has part of our pipeline.

--- Running the pipeline ---

-: (upbeat music plays)
Instructor: So in the prior chapter,
we now have a self-hosted agent
that is running
as part of our organization,
and now should be available onto our projects.
For the build pipeline that I have in place now
for (indistinct), let me click on edit.
In terms of the pool now,
interim of VM image, I can give the name of the pool,
the name of the pool I can give has the default pool
because we have this agent running as part
of a default pool.
I can leave everything else hazardous.
Let me go ahead and do a save
(light keyboard typing)
using
self-hosted agent.
Let me click on Save.
Let me go back.
So now it is running this particular job.
Now it's saying the pipeline needs permission
to access this resource before it can continue.
I can choose View, I can choose Permit.
And this will permit the use of the default now
for all of the waiting and future runs of this pipeline.
I'll choose Permit.
And now the job should run.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now, after some time you can see the job is complete.
And this time, remember the job ran
on your self-hosted agent.
You might notice that you have taken more time
for the job to execute because now all
of the commands has to be run on this remote machine.
With a Microsoft hosted agent,
everything is probably more closer
onto the DevOps pipeline.
But here, since you have your own agent,
it might take some little bit more time when it comes
on to running your job.
But in the end, it did run on a self-hosted agent agent.

--- Exploring the work folder ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the prior chapter
we ran our build pipeline on a self-hosted agent.
Now, if I go onto our agent, the virtual machine
when we were configuring the agent
we mentioned a folder on the C drive that C work.
This is going to be the working folder that's gonna be used
by Azure pipelines.
If I actually go onto this work folder
there are other folders in place.
This is a structure that is adopted
by Azure pipelines
when it comes onto execution of the pipelines itself.
If I go onto this one folder,
again we have some sub folders in place.
If I go onto the S folder
here you will actually see the source code.
This is the actual source code that is picked
up from the Git repository that is from Azure Repos.
These are the Git based files
which you can't see the name of.
But then if you go on to web app here
you will see the exact structure of the code files
as they are taken from the Git repository.
See, the pipeline first needs to download the code
on this machine and then build the code accordingly.
If I go back onto this one folder
if I go onto A folder, nothing is there.
If I go onto let's say the B folder nothing is there.
To where exactly is the build being stored?
Because you told me Alan, that the entire point
of a self-hosted agent is we should be able to
persist our build.
All I can see here is the source code.
I can't see the build of my application
but the pipeline clearly mentioned
that it had done a complete build.
So if I go on to the job here
if I go on to build,
it told me that it build my application.
You can see from where it took the project file
for creating the build.
All it did was it ran the .NET.exe
and this .NET.exe on this machine is available
because we installed the .NET SDK on this agent itself.
Because we installed that SDK,
we have this EXE in place.
This .NET.exe tool can be used to build your project
and you get a build accordingly.
So here, I can see that it did conduct a build
but where exactly is the build being stored?
There is no build anywhere.
Well, if we go back onto Visual Studio.
So in Visual Studio
remember that apart from doing the build
there is one more thing that we had done.
We had done a publish as well.
See when you publish,
if I right click on my project
and I hit on publish, we had a published profile
in which we had published the contents that could then
be copied onto the server.
This is an additional step.
The first step is to build your project to make sure
that it builds correctly
because you cannot assume that after you make a code change
it's going to build properly and only when the
build is proper
then you should publish the build.
Because there's no point publishing
something that does not build properly.
That means there are issues in the code and
obviously you don't want to have a published
version of code that does not work.
Hence we need to publish our code as well
to see it on the agent.
This is an additional step.
See, our pipeline is like a robot.
We are telling it what it should do
when it comes onto building our application.
Hence, we need to add one more step
for publishing our build.
I refer on the Microsoft documentation page
when it comes onto the tasks that are available.
When it comes onto .NET Code CLI.
For most of the
tasks I make use of the Microsoft documentation.
There are some cases wherein
I do need to do some
research on how to make a particular task work.
The Microsoft documentation
has a lot of information
but sometimes you might have some special use
case scenario.
During that time
you might need to do some research on how to
accomplish a particular task.
Here, I want to add another task,
this time the command is to do a publish
of our application.
Let me go ahead and copy all of this.
Actually, I don't need the zip after publish.
I'll just copy this.
I'll go onto my pipeline.
Let me click on edit.
It's using my default pool.
I'll scroll down.
After the build stage
I'll put in that code to do a publish.
So we have a publish now in place.
Let me go ahead and click on save,
and if I go back
it should have now triggered a build of my application.
Let's come back once this is complete.
I can see everything is now complete.
If I go onto the server now,
let me go onto to the one folder.
Let me go onto the A folder.
I can actually see a zipped version
of the content of my build.
That means that that particular parameter here
even though I did not copy it.
Here, this particular parameter
that's zip of the publish.
By default this value is taken as true.
See, when you have any arguments for a particular task
you should go onto the Microsoft documentation.
So for example, for .NET Code CLI
you should know what are the parameters that default
onto its actual values.
So you can go onto the task
and you should go onto the YAML snippet and see.
See zip after publish.
By default, it is being marked as true.
If you don't want to zip the contents
you can put the value as false.
If I just right click and extract everything here itself
you will see the same published content.
So now we have published our build
onto this self hosted agent.
By default, it is being stored
in a folder known as the A folder.
There is a particular folder structure that is followed
by the Azure pipelines.
So in the chapter
wanna show you how you can perform a publish
of your code on the server.

--- A couple of notes on our pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in our last chapter
we had done a publish of our build on the agent.
I will now go through a couple of more points
in this particular chapter.
So when it comes onto our pipeline
we are using now our self-hosted agent.
If I scroll down
do I now need this task of installing .net six?
Well, no, right, because on our self-hosted agent
we only have that facility
because we only have .net six installed on that machine.
Hence, we don't need this task.
Next, do we need the new get tool installer task?
Well, we don't.
Why don't we need this particular task?
Again, this comes onto your knowledge
when it comes onto .net.
When you are creating
or when you are building a .net application,
you might want to use external new get packages,
so that you can enhance the functionality
of your application.
In our applications, in our projects in Visual Studio
I've been using the simple inbuilt asp.netco
web templates that are available,
and we have not been doing anything fancy
when it comes onto our web app.
We have not been using any sort of external packages.
To actually confirm this,
you can go onto tools, you know
for any of our applications.
Here, I'm in my builder.
You can go on to new Get Package Manager,
manage new get packages for the solution.
You can see if there are any packages that were installed
and we don't have any sort of these packages.
Hence, we really don't need to use new get
within our pipeline.
It should still build properly.
Hence, I could remove these steps when it comes
onto the installer and the command
and just have the commands for .netco CLI
for the build and for the publish.
Just want to let you know that these are changes
you can actually make onto your pipeline.
And finally, just to confirm that the zip after publish
works as it should,
let me go onto the pipeline here
and I'll mark this as false.
At the same time, I'll go onto the server.
Let me delete all of this. So I'll go onto the A folder.
I'll just right click and delete this.
Next one more thing, in the output,
when it comes onto the publish,
we are using something known as a variable actually.
Build.Artifact Staging directory.
So what is this Build.Artifact Staging directory.
I mean, where is it coming from?
So within Azure pipelines, there are some inbuilt
variables that you can use.
If I try to find for in this documentation page
for the Build Artifact staging directory, you scroll down.
Here it maps onto what should be
the local part on the agent.
Hence, your Build.Artifact Staging directory
is being mapped onto whatever is the working folder
that we mentioned, /1/a.
That is why on our server, the build is stored
in the work folder /1/a.
We are telling our pipeline,
please go ahead and output our build
on this special directory location.
I said, so there are these inbuilt variables
within Azure pipelines, which you can also make use of.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
Remove task for .net six.
Let me click on save here and I'll just wait.
So it should launch now a new job.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once this is complete, you can see everything ran normally.
So we didn't need now the step of installing .net six.
If I go onto my work folder again
I'll go onto folder one onto A
and now you can see an unzipped version
of your build of the application itself.
So in this chapter, wanna go through
a few more points when it comes onto our pipeline.
So I told you that you're gonna go
through various used case scenarios
so that you get used to building these YAML pipelines.

--- Few more aspects ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now before moving on, just to talk about again
few more aspects when it comes on to your pipelines.
If I go on to my web app pipeline, if I go on to branches,
I can see my main default branch.
I can see the runs here,
the different builds and the amount of time they took.
You can see the amount of time they took
relative to each other.
And if you go on to the Analytics,
you can see aspects such as the pipeline duration
and the pass rate when it comes on to the pipeline itself.
If I go on to Azure Repos, again on to my web app,
on to my main branch,
you now have to remember that Azure Pipeline's YAML file
that is also version control along with your repository.
If you go on to it now,
the advantage of using YAML files is
you now have the history of the build definition
of your pipeline stored here.
Hence, you can go on to any revision
and you can see the contents of the file
and you can do a comparison as well.
The firm advantage of having this definition
of your build along with the core base itself.
So I just wanna go through a few more aspects
when it comes on to the build pipeline.

--- Deleting your resources ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now I wanna give a quick note to students.
You might be well aware
coming from the background of the AZ-104 exam or AZ-204
wherein you'll probably be working with resources
as part of your account
and you always know that
when you're not using any resources,
go ahead and delete the resources accordingly.
So like for example,
I spun up Agent VM as part of a resource group, DevOps GRP.
When this is not being used
because we are finished with the chapter
of working with a self-hosted agent,
go ahead and delete the resources.
So we can go ahead and delete the entire resource group.
Again I know you'll be well aware
but just want to give you a reminder
so that you don't incur any cost from an Azure perspective.
Because if from an Azure DevOps perspective,
so far everything is free
and definitely you don't incur any sort of additional cost
when it comes on to working with resources
on the Azure platform.

--- Security at every stage ---

(boppy intro music)
Instructor: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the (inaudible) chapters
we had seen how we could work with our build pipelines.
Now, in the subsequent chapters
we're gonna see how we can incorporate testing
and security within our build pipeline.
When it comes on testing and when it comes onto security,
it's very important that you embed these concept
at every stage in your life cycle.
See, when you're building, for example,
a web application and your abusers on the internet
who are gonna access the web application.
You know that there are so many internet-based threats
that can affect the application itself
and you have to be prepared.
The organization needs to have plans in place
to mitigate such threats.
Now, you should not think about testing your application
or even looking at the security of the application
after you deploy the application.
No. It should never be an afterthought.
You have to start right from the planning stage.
When you start collecting, for example,
your user stories - at that point in time
you have to understand how can you incorporate security?
How can you incorporate testing within your stages
that can align with the user stories
that will correspond onto application functionality.
Then during the development stage, you know,
developers, for example, if they're using Visual Studio
for building a Dark Net application,
there are plugins in the market -
security plugins that actually integrate
with the development environment.
You have plugins that integrate
with Visual Studio, with Eclipse
and what these tools can do is:
they can actually look for potential issues
within the code itself.
This is very helpful
during the development life cycle itself.
Then you can also conduct peer reviews.
For example, a senior developer
or maybe even another engineer
can look at the code that has been developed
and give any sort of advice on how the code can be improved.
And obviously,
if the organization has any sort of coding standards,
if you adhere to those coding standards
then automatically you are building quality code.
And then during the build stage
your continuous integration stage
you can also have tests embedded within your pipeline.
For example, you can have unit test in place.
You can also make use of static code analysis
within your pipeline itself
that can look at possible issues in the code.
And then when you deploy onto, let's say,
a test environment or a staging environment
you can conduct testing from a system level.
For example, you could have low testing in place.
You can conduct penetration testing
you can conduct infrastructure testing.
So testing and security are very important
at every stage of the life cycle.
In these subsequent chapters,
we're gonna look at some of the tools
that can actually help in these aspects,
especially when it comes onto continuous integration.

--- Using the Mend Bolt tool - Setup ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
I want to go through the usage of a tool
that's known as Mend.
This was formerly known as WhiteSource.
This tool can actually,
it's an open source software security tool,
and a compliance management tool.
This integrates with your Azure DevOps set of tools
especially when it comes onto your build pipelines.
And it can check for any sort of security vulnerabilities
licensing issues.
See, as a developer for your application,
you might go ahead and install external packages,
external open source libraries.
I told for a .net program
you have so many new Git packages
that you can actually install as part of your program.
So let's say you want external functionality
that is not available with the default set
of .net libraries.
You might want to install an external package.
Now, this external package would've been programmed
by someone else and you do not know
if that someone else has incorporated
all of the security best practices
when it comes on to developing that package.
Hence, you don't know
if there are any sort of security loopholes
in that package itself.
So when you install that package
as part of your application code base,
you don't know what sort of security issues
you are actually inheriting
because you have installed that package.
Secondly, is a licensing issue.
You don't know whether the external party
that actually developed the package
requires you to buy a license before using it.
Sometimes it may not be so crystal clear
whether a license is required or not.
So this tool can automatically scan your code base
and understand if there are any sort of licensing issues,
because you've installed these external libraries,
or any sort of security vulnerabilities.
And also lets you know
if you're using any sort of outdated libraries.
Now, in order to make use of this tool,
you have to go on your organization.
Go onto Organization Settings, go onto Extensions.
Here, we can browse the marketplace for extensions.
There are extensions that are available from other vendors
that you can install that extend the functionality
of Azure DevOps itself.
For example, if I search for the Mend tool,
you can see there are two in place.
You have a free version which we are gonna use,
and a paid version.
This tool was formally known as WhiteSource.
Now it's known as Mend Bolt.
Now, in order to install this, so if I just click on this,
I can click on Get it For Free
and I can install it as part of my organization.
But there is something that we have to do.
There's a small caveat when it comes on to using this tool.
This tool has the requirement
that your organization, your Azure DevOps organization,
should be integrated with Azure Active Directory.
See many organizations and including myself, right?
I have an Azure account
and as part of the Azure account, you know
that you get a Azure Active Directory also in place.
So if you're coming from an AZ-104 background
or even an AZ-204 background,
you are already familiar with this.
You know that as part of Azure Active Directory,
you can create users, you can create groups,
you can create applications.
Now, you can also integrate Azure AD
with your Azure DevOps account.
And why is this useful?
See, earlier on when we want to invite other users
to use our project, like for example, TOC User One
we had to invite that user.
But in an organization that's using an Azure account,
they might be using Azure Active Directory
and they might be having their users defined
as part of Azure AD.
So they don't want to invite other users,
they just want to use the users that are inbuilt
as part of Azure Active Directory as part of their account.
That's where the integration of Azure AD
and Azure DevOps is very useful.
You can make use of the existing identities
that are already stored
in your Azure Active Directory account.
So for the usage of this Mend Bolt tool,
and I wanna show how you can use it,
you have to integrate your Azure DevOps account
with Azure Active Directory.
For this, you have to go onto your profile first
and click on Switch Directory.
Here, I can choose my default directory.
If I see the ID here it's the same as the ID
of my default directory.
And the reason I can see that default directory
is because techsupport4000@gmail.com
was used to create my Azure account
and used to also create my Azure DevOps account.
Let me choose my default directory and click on Switch.
Now what this is gonna do is
it's gonna create a brand new Azure DevOps organization.
It's not going delete your previous organization.
That is gonna remain as it is.
The only difference is that previous organization
is linked onto techsupport4000@gmail.com,
but that's linked onto the Microsoft account.
Here we are linking it onto a Azure Active Directory
that is linked with my Azure account, which again is linked
onto my Tech support 4,000 Microsoft account.
But again, when it comes onto a Azure DevOps,
they have this segregation
between your Microsoft personal account
and the Azure account which we are using
Earlier on continue here,
we can see it's creating a new organization.
It's telling you where it's gonna host your projects.
I'll leave it as it is.
I need to enter this validation code.
It's now taking me onto my Azure DevOps organization
and then it'll ask me to create a project to get started.
But now let me leave this as it is.
Let me go onto Organization Settings.
So remember, this is a brand new organization.
You have no projects within this organization itself.
I'm directly going onto my Organization Settings.
If I go onto Azure Active Directory,
you can see it is now connected onto that default directory.
I can go onto my extensions now.
And again, let's browse the marketplace.
I'll again search for that tool.
I'll choose the free version.
I'll choose Get it For Free.
It should now install the tool
as part of my new organization.
I'll click on Install.
I'll proceed back onto my organization.
If I go back onto the Organization Settings,
if I scroll down you now have a separate section here
of extensions.
You have to go onto Mend now,
since you've already installed it as an extension.
You have to add information
so that you can actually start using this extension.
So you need to enter all of this information
and then go ahead and create the account.
So let me go ahead and enter my information.
I'm just entering all of my information.
I'm gonna go ahead and create an account.
So this is actually kind of creating a Mend account,
so you can actually start using it for free.
And what does is,
it's saying that we can start now using the Mend Bolt tool.
Let's mark and end onto this chapter
wherein we have carried out the initial steps
when it comes on to using this particular tool.

--- Using the Mend Bolt tool - Usage ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the last chapter
we had installed that Mend Bolt tool.
In this chapter, let's go ahead
and add the usage of the tool onto a build pipeline.
Now remember, here we are in a brand new organization.
It has an organization name.
We don't have any project in place.
Let me go ahead and quickly create a new project here.
Again, it's a private project.
I'll go onto Advance, I'll leave everything as it.
I'll Create the project.
We have no code here, remember,
this is a brand new project within a brand new organization.
If you go onto our Repos also,
we don't have anything in place.
On my local machine,
I have that simple web application.
It's build up.
Again this is build out of the normal ASP.NET code template.
Let me go ahead and publish this onto the Git repository
on Azure Repos as part of our new organization.
So now here, let me go onto the Git menu
and create a Git repository.
Here I'll choose Azure DevOps.
So again, I'm using my Tech Support 4,000 account.
In terms of my organization,
I can see my new organization also in place.
I'll choose the dev project.
It'll create a new repository name.
Let me do a Create and a Push.
Once this is done,
if I go onto my Repo,
let me refresh this entire page...
Here I can see my new repository in place, Build App.
Let's now set up a build for this Repo,
so we can do it from there itself.
We don't have to go onto Pipeline,
so you can go onto your repository
and create a build pipeline from there itself.
I'll choose ASP.NET Core,
and I have that build pipeline again in place.
I'll leave the other aspects as there.
Again, let me delete this task of VS Test.
Please note that you can make use of
the previous type of pipelines we were also using,
wherein we are using the .NET Core CLI task.
Here I just wanna show you how you can use now
that Mend Bolt task as part of your pipeline.
If you click on Show Assistant,
here if I search for Mend Bolt,
I can choose this particular task.
I can leave this as it is,
when it comes onto the route working directory,
I can click on Add.
All it does is it adds a task now with a particular input,
and that's it.
Your pipeline should now use that WhiteSource tool
to inspect your project.
Let me go ahead and do a Save and a Run.
Let me do a Save and Run here.
It'll now start the job.
So again, we are using the Microsoft hosted agent.
Now, once we are done with the Mend Bolt tool,
I'll actually delete this organization
and we'll go back onto a prior organization
and do the subsequent chapters from there itself.
It's only the usage of this Mend Bolt tool
that requires the use of integrating Azure Active Directory
with your Azure DevOps account.
And I wanna show how you can actually
use this particular tool.
Now, once a job is complete,
if you go back onto your pipeline here,
and you go onto the run itself,
you will see now an extra tab
when it comes on to the report
that is generated by the Mend Bolt tool.
Currently, in terms of an open source risk report,
no risks have been detected
and there are no sort of libraries
or security vulnerabilities or license risk.
So it actually shows you all of this information.
When you actually add any sort of library onto your project,
so for example, if I go onto Tools,
if I go onto New Git Package Manager
and Manage New Git Packages For This Solution,
if I go onto to Browse...
So let me install a package Newtonsoft.Json,
I'll choose my project, I'll scroll down,
I'll click on Install.
So just trying to simulate a condition
wherein you have now an external package.
So if you are working with JSON-based files,
you can use this package or this library
to work with those files.
It's a very popular library.
We now need to basically publish this change
onto our Git repository.
For this, just go on to Build and build the solution once
so that now there is a pending edit
when it comes onto your project file,
because now the project file has detected
that this new package is in place.
Let's go on to Git now...
Actually let me go onto View and View Git Changes.
Just give a Commit message,
and I'll do a Commit All and Push.
It might ask me to do a Pull first, right,
because the Azure Pipelines.YAML file
has now been added by Azure build Pipelines
onto our repository, hence there is a conflict.
We have to now pull our changes from the repository
that is in Azure Repos, and then do a Push again.
So I'll do a and Pull and a Push.
It's now syncing the main branch,
which we have in Azure Repos,
with our local version,
and then it'll push the changes onto the Git repository.
Now, if I go onto my Build app pipeline,
I can see that there is now another job that has been run.
Let's wait for this to complete.
Now, once a job is complete,
if I go back onto my build pipeline,
if I go onto the recent run
and let me go onto the Mend Bolt report...
Again no risk.
But then I can see what is the license type
for the package that I'm using.
So now it is also going through the packages
that we actually installed as part of our project.
So in this chapter, I basically wanna show
how you can actually make use of this Mend Bolt tool.

--- Going back to our base ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now I'm gonna go ahead and delete this organization.
I'm gonna go back onto my prior organization.
The only reason why I showed this
is because I wanna show how I can use that mend tool.
Now, before I go ahead and delete this organization
and I go back.
So I told you, we can still go back onto Apply Organization.
You don't have to necessarily delete this organization.
You can also keep it as it is.
At any point in time,
you can actually switch back onto your directory
onto your Microsoft account
and basically go onto the other organization,
your previous one.
But since I don't need this at this point in time,
I'm gonna go ahead and delete this entire organization.
Now before I go ahead and do that,
if I just go on to Organization Settings,
and if I go on to Users,
since we have linked this account
onto Azure Active Directory,
if I go onto my Azure AD tenant here,
if I go onto Users
let me go ahead and just hide this.
I have some users in place, like I have Admin A.
If I go onto settings here, if I click on Add Users
I can search for Admin A,
I can see Admin A in place.
I can choose the admin and then click on Add.
We are now adding this user onto the organization
and this user is already part of Azure Active Directory.
That's why it was easy to go ahead
and add this user as part of our organization,
the benefit of using Azure Active Directory.
So I said, for now
I'll go ahead and delete this organization.
At any point in time,
if you want that as your AD integration,
you can always go ahead and recreate your organization.
Just to keep things simple,
let me go back onto my organization,
I'll go onto Organization Settings.
In the overview itself, if I scroll down
I can delete the organization.
I'll just type in this name.
Let me hit on Delete.
Let me sign in again on Azure DevOps,
I'll close all my other tabs.
It's asked me to get started
because it's still trying to connect
onto my Azure AD account.
I'll click on Switch Directory.
I'll go onto my Microsoft account now.
This will take me back onto my older organization.
(keyboard clattering)
Just enter my password.
And now I can see my project's in place.
So, I just want to switch back
onto my previous organization for the remaining chapters.

--- Adding unit tests ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I wanna go through
how you can have unit tests in place,
as part of your build pipeline.
The first aspect is to ensure that you have unit tests
defined as part of your code.
So, you will have your primary web application in place,
and then you can have unit tests in a separate project,
within your Visual Studio Solution,
to go ahead and test various aspects of the code
within your main application.
I wanna showcase a very simple example
on how you can have unit tests as part of your pipeline.
Firstly, I'm gonna use one of the existing projects
that I have.
I'll go in and use my web app project.
In Visual Studio, in the Git menu,
let me go ahead and clone the repository.
Here I'm gonna choose Azure DevOps,
so I'm logged in as TechSupport4000.
Here, in the list, I'm gonna choose under my project,
my web app repository,
and in the path I'm gonna choose a local temporary path.
I just go ahead and create a new temp folder.
I'll hit on the clone button.
I want to ensure that as a developer,
I first bring down the project on my local machine,
and then we can go ahead and add a very simple test project.
Here, then, I'm gonna click on the solution file
and I'll have my project now in place.
I'll right click on the solution file.
I'll choose now to add a new project.
In the project,
I'm gonna search for test.
We can now add a test project.
I'm gonna search for X Unit
as a test project that's based on C Shop.
I'll choose next.
I'll give a name for the project.
I'll just name this as web test.
I'll go onto next and I'll hit on create.
We are creating first a unit test project, here itself,
within our solution.
We have now two separate projects in place.
Here for this class file,
I'll just press the F2 button on my keyboard
to rename this class file.
(keyboard clacking)
Just hit the enter button.
I'll say, yes, I do want to rename this particular class.
(keyboard clacking)
I'll just rename this method,
and now let me add some code onto this method.
So, adding simple code here,
I'm just assigning the value of an integer as a value of one
for a result variable.
It's a Boolean variable.
It's marked as false.
Here, I'm checking for the value of I.
If it is equal to one, then set the result as true.
And here I'm using an assert statement
to make sure that if the result is true,
because the value should be equal to one,
this is a very simple test just to test the value of I.
I just want to show you
how you can have a unit test in place
as part of your pipeline, that's it.
The first step I said is to add that unit test
within your code itself.
Let me go ahead and save everything,
and if you want to run this test here itself,
you have to go onto the test option in Visual Studio,
and then run all of the test.
It'll go ahead and open up another window
and it will start running the test.
It will first do a build, and then it will run the test.
And, you can see that it passed, because it worked.
It is passing because of the assert statement, here.
You will assert that it is true, if the result is true.
Here, if the result was false,
if you had marked it as false,
then the assert statement would fail.
The first step I told you
is to make sure
that you have the unit test as part of your local project.

--- Running unit tests in the pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the prior chapter,
we had added a unit test project onto our local solution.
We now want to ensure that this unit test
runs as part of our build pipeline.
I had cloned our web app repository on my local machine
and I made the changes.
Now I need to publish our new project, our web test project,
onto Azure Repos
and this should go and actually trigger a build.
I first wanna make a change onto our pipeline.
I remember I had a pipeline in place
that was based on this particular web app repository.
Let me go onto the pipeline
and let me click on the edit button.
Firstly, I'll just make a change wherein I'm again
using the VM image of Ubuntu latest.
Then again, I have my NuGet commands,
I have my build command,
and I have the publish command as well,
this can also be in place.
Here what I'll do is I'll remove the command
of publishing now because we are doing this now
on a Microsoft hosted agent.
Instead of this, I'm gonna add another task,
this is to now test.
This is now to basically ensure
that whatever test projects are included
as part of the solution, they are run.
I have to give what is a name of our project file.
So what is the name of the project file
that I've given locally?
It is web test.
I need to ensure that it is reflected here.
So web test and csproj,
that's the extension of the project file.
I will also go ahead and ensure that I add the task,
since now this is a Microsoft hosted agent to install
.NET 6 on this particular machine,
and I don't need the NuGet task.
So I just have the task for building, for installing
and the task for testing our projects, which we have.
Now I'm gonna click on save.
This is now go to commit again onto our main branch
and run a pipeline.
Now please note that at this point in time
it's not going to run any tests because I still
haven't published the test from my local machine.
The first step is just to ensure
that I have the pipeline in place,
it's changed, it's edited.
If I go on to web app,
it should now go ahead and run an instance of the pipeline.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now once this is complete, if I go onto the pipeline,
so I can't see basically anything else
apart from this warning,
saying the specified pattern was not found,
this is for our test project.
Now in Visual Studio, let me go on to get changes,
and let's see that I added the test project
in the commit message,
I'll do a commit all and a push.
Obviously, it'll ask me to pull the changes first
from the remote repository.
I'll do a pull and a push.
It should pull the changes.
Then it should publish our test project
and then run the pipeline again.
If I go on to web app
I can see it has gone ahead and run the pipeline again.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Once this is complete, if I go onto the job itself,
there is now a test tab in place,
wherein if I highlight that to show what has passed,
I can see the test results in place.
So now these unit tests
which are actually part of our solution file,
can also be run as part of the pipeline.

--- Code Coverage - Adding unit test ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapter, we had gone through
how we could have unit testing
as part of a project
within our visual studio solution.
And when we checked
in the code into our pipe, into our repository
and we had a pipeline which was also used to
run those tests, we could see a summary
of those tests execute as part of our pipeline.
Now, another aspect I want to cover is code coverage.
When you build your unit test.
You build your unit test to test different modules
of your application.
With code coverage has a key measure.
You can see how much
of your actual application code
is being tested
by your unit test.
This is a measure of the code coverage.
How much of your code is actually being tested?
Now, in our particular case,
when we had a simple test here,
the web test.
This was nothing that great
because it was not testing any part of our web application.
I wanna showcase, again, a very simple example
on how we can have a unit test
that can test something
within our main web application.
In the web application here
I'm first gonna right click and add a new folder.
I'll just name this as modules.
And within this module folder,
I'll go in and basically add a new class.
The name I'll give
to this class is, just let's say, functions
and then, I can click on the add button
just adding some functionality
onto our main web application
and the next, adding some simple code
onto a function.
So adding a method just to add two numbers.
I'm trying to keep it as simple as possible.
Now, I'm gonna add a unit test to test this
particular method, when,
in this particular class.
Now, I'm gonna add a unit test,
to test this particular method,
in this particular class.
I'll go onto my web test.
Here, I'm gonna add another method.
This method has a name of check add function.
I want to make use of my function class, now.
I can just, over, over this
and add a reference onto web app.
That is to add a reference onto our project.
I'm then, in working, the add function
which I've defined here.
I'm adding the numbers three and two.
Again, I have the result of false.
So, when we now call this add function,
we expect to get a value of five.
If we do get a value of five,
that means our add method
within the function class is working as expected.
And then we can mark a true assertive,
when it comes onto this particular unit test.
I'm gonna be, go ahead and save everything.
We can go on test
and run all the test locally, first.
It'll go ahead and do a build.
It is doing a test
for the check add function
and it's working as expected.
Now, let me go over
and publish my changes onto our gate repository.
(typing sounds)
I'll do a commit all and a push,
so this is done.
This should now go ahead and trigger a build.
Once a job is complete, if I go onto my test
I can see two have passed.
So, if I filter on the past results
I should be able to see both of my tests have passed.
This is the first step
when it comes on code coverage.
I just go ahead
and ensure that I add a unit test
which tests some functionality
of my main web application.

--- Code Coverage - Implementation ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in this chapter, I want to go ahead
and add that functionality
when it comes onto code coverage.
Since we now have a unit test in place
which is testing some functionality
within our main web app application
we can now have some stats when it comes onto code coverage.
For this, I need to go onto my pipeline.
Let me click on the edit pipeline.
I need to make a change onto my pipeline.
Here, after the build stage,
I need to have another task
that's going to perform a restore of my projects.
And why do I need this?
This is now because as part of my project,
I am going to install a NuGet package.
I'll go out to manage NuGet packages for the solution.
In browse I'm gonna search for
a particular package.
I want to go ahead and choose
the package of coverlet.msbuild.
I'm gonna choose this particular package.
This kind of allows us to look at code coverage as a whole.
I'll scroll down, I'll click on install.
I'll choose okay.
This is now in place.
Let me go ahead and build my solution,
so that I'll have changes now that need to be promoted
onto my get repository.
So I'm doing a restore, I'm doing a test.
Now in my test
in terms of my arguments,
I'm gonna make another change.
In terms of arguments.
I'm adding some arguments
when it comes onto collecting code coverage.
I'm marking this as true.
I'm putting a particular output format
and then you can also have your own folder as well.
That's one change onto an existing task.
I'm then going to add another task.
This task is to actually publish the code coverage results.
You have a task for publishing code coverage results.
I'm just giving a display name
in terms of the code coverage tool,
since we are specifying format here,
we can use the same format type
when it comes onto the code coverage tool
and this particular XML file
which is gonna be generated by the code coverage
when we publish our results here.
It'll now be kind of a summary file
that can be shown as results for our pipeline.
You'll understand this when we actually run our pipeline.
At this point in time,
let me first go on to my project
and let me commit my changes.
I'll do this first.
I'll do a commit all and a push.
This should then go ahead
and initiate a build of the pipeline.
If you want to check that,
you can right click on the pipeline
and open the link in a new tab.
It has started a fresh new build of the pipeline.
Once this is complete,
I'll go onto my modified pipeline
and let me click on save
and commit this onto my main branch
and click on save again.
So one change is from your project perspective
wherein your adding a NuGet package
that is kind of a library
that allows you to have this code coverage in place.
And then next, from a pipeline perspective
you are adding a task to publish the code coverage results.
Before that when you are testing
your running your unit test
you are telling that along with running the unit test
please ensure to also publish what is a code coverage.
And this is possible, I told you
because we are installing that code coverage tool.
Let me load the one new run
and let's wait till this run is also complete.
Now, once this run is complete
if I go onto the run itself,
you can now see an extra tab
when it comes onto code coverage.
And here, if you scroll down,
you will see the number of lines
that have been covered when it comes onto code coverage.
And what is the line coverage.
If you scroll down
you can see what are the classes
that are being covered by your unit test.
We can see that the function class
is a hundred percent covered
because we have a unit test
that is testing that add function
within the functions class.
It'll give you the results of all of your classes
whether they are being covered or not.
The entire purpose of code coverage,
in this particular aspect,
is to see whether your unit tests
are testing all parts of your code
within your main application.
And you're gonna have all of this running
as part of your pipeline.

--- Azure Pipelines - GitHub repository ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this particular chapter
I wanna show you how we can have a pipeline
in place that can pick up code from a GitHub repository.
Now, there are different ways
in which you can authorize your pipeline to work
with a GitHub repository.
Now, in our perspective, let's go ahead
and use a GitHub repository that I already have.
Now, in order to showcase the use
of as Azure Pipelines with a GitHub repository,
let me go on to Visual Studio
and let me create a new project.
I'll again choose ASP.NET Core web app.
I'll go on to Next.
I'll just give a project name.
Go on to Next and hit on Create.
I'll publish this as a new git repository.
If I go on to Solution Explorer,
again nothing different over here.
I'll go on to get and create a git repository.
This is gonna be in GitHub.
Let me log with my admin account.
In terms of the organization, let me choose that.
A new repository name and this is gonna be
a public repository, just for now.
Let me do a create and a push.
Now, I want to create a pipeline
based on the code that is present in this GitHub repository.
One of the important aspects when it comes
on to building your GitHub repositories from Azure Pipelines
is the access on to the repositories itself.
How do you authorize Azure DevOps to actually interact
with your GitHub Repositories?
Well, there are a number of ways.
If I actually scroll down, when it comes
on to the different authentication types that your
as Azure Pipelines can use.
Now, one way is to make use
of a personal access token, which is like a password.
Here, the pipeline is gonna make use
of the personal GitHub identity.
Another way is to use OAuth, which again, you know,
in this exchange, a secret is passed
between the Azure pipeline and GitHub.
And again, this makes use of GitHub identity.
If you use the GitHub app, if you install, like, for example
Azure Pipelines in your GitHub account.
That will actually make use
of the Azure Pipeline's identity itself.
And this also works with GitHub checks.
So, as a first use case, let me go on to my Pipelines.
Let me create a new pipeline.
This time here, I'm gonna choose GitHub.
In terms of my repository, I'll choose all repositories.
I wanna choose my DevOps 6,000 git app.
Here it is telling me now to approve
and install Azure Pipelines.
This is the suggested installation of this GitHub app.
This will now install Azure Pipelines as an application
within your GitHub account so that the pipeline can run
with the Azure Pipelines identity.
I'll select only my selected repository
and let me do and approve and install.
Here you can see that we are being directed on to GitHub.
I'm gonna confirm the password of my
Tech Support 4,000 account when it comes on to GitHub
I'm going back on to Azure Pipelines.
This is done.
Now we are going on to the configuration of the framework.
I'll choose ASP.NET Core.
And again, we have all of the same aspects in place.
I can go ahead and delete all of this
and do a save and a run.
Now, here the only difference is it's gonna pick up
the code from a GitHub repository.
Now, if you go on to your GitHub account,
and if I go on to the organizations,
let me go on to to DevOps 6,000.
Let me go on to the settings.
In these settings, If I go on to the GitHub apps here,
you will see now that as Azure Pipelines is also
an installed GitHub app.
Now the identity of Azure Pipelines is taking the code here
and transferring it on to Azure Pipelines itself.
You can see the job is running
and this should run on to completion.
What is important to understand is you can
pick up your code from GitHub.
At the same time you should also understand
all of these methods that are available
when it comes to authentication.
The important thing to remember is
what is the identity that is used
in each authentication type,
and which one works with GitHub checks.
If I go back, I can see the job is a success.
No issues here.
Right, so this marks the end up this chapter.

--- GitHub status badge ---

(funky intro music)
-: So in the prior chapter,
we had seen how we could pull up the code
from a GitHub Repository
and run it as part of our pipeline.
In this chapter,
I want to show you
how you can add a status badge
and it comes onto your GitHub Repository.
See, now the GitHub Repository is linked
onto Azure Pipelines.
The status of the pipeline run can actually be reflected
in your GitHub Repository.
And how can we achieve this?
I'll go onto my organization.
I'll go onto GetApp.
In GetApp, let me add a read me file.
I'll go onto my pipeline.
I'll go onto the pipeline for GetApp.
I'll choose in the option of "status badge".
I'll copy the sample marked down
and I will place it here down.
Then I'll scroll down,
and commit a new file onto the main branch.
What this should do is this should now go ahead
and trigger a pipeline.
But now you can see this status badge in place.
In order to see the reflection
of the status badge correctly,
because if you go onto your pipeline now,
it should have triggered a new run of the pipeline.
There are a couple of settings that we need to change.
If I go onto my organization.
I go onto "organization settings".
Here, I need to go onto "pipelines" and go onto "settings".
In "settings", I have to uncheck or basically toggle
this "disable anonymous access onto badges".
I have to also go onto my project.
I have to go onto the "project settings".
I have to scroll down in "pipelines",
in "settings", I have to do the same thing.
I have to scroll down and toggle
"disable anonymous access onto badges".
If I go onto my project and let me go onto the pipelines,
I can see the pipeline is complete.
If I just refresh this entire page,
I can see a badge of "Succeeded" here, as well.
So we're now adding a status badge
when whatever is the latest status
of the pipeline run is being reflected
for our GitHub Repository.

--- Azure Pipelines - Classic Editor ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapter we had seen
how a Azure Pipelines got pickup code from a Azure Repos
when it comes onto to building an application.
There we were using the GitHub app.
This time around,
I want to make use of a personal access token
to access a GitHub Repository.
For this, what I've done is,
in Visual Studio, again, I create a very simple web project.
I then publish this on to GitHub within my organization,
so in DevOps 6,000 I have the build app in place.
I now want to create a pipeline.
For this I said I want to make use
of a personal access token.
For this I need to go onto my settings
as part of my GitHub account,
I'm gonna go onto developer settings,
here I'm gonna go onto personal access tokens
and let me generate a new token.
I'll just give a note for the token,
when it comes onto the scope
I need to give the entire repository scope.
Then for the user, the read user, and the user email,
and I also need to give the admin (indistinct) as well.
I'll scroll down and generate the token,
I have the token here.
I'm now gonna go onto my project,
I'll go onto project settings.
I'm gonna create now a new service connection.
In Pipelines I can create a new service connection.
Here I want to create a service connection,
we can create a service connection onto external services.
I want to use GitHub, and I'll scroll down, go onto next.
Here in terms of the authentication method
I'm gonna choose a personal access token,
I'll then copy the token from here and let's paste it.
I'll scroll down and give a service connection name.
(keyboard keys clacking)
I'll grant access permissions onto all pipelines,
(keyboard keys clacking)
and let me click on verify and save.
Once we have this in place,
I can now create a pipeline
to make use of this service connection
which is using a personal access token.
I'll go onto pipelines, I'll create a new pipeline.
This time around I'm gonna create a pipeline
based on the classic editor.
I wanna show you how we can do this.
We have been basing everything on YAML so far,
if you choose any of these options
you can see that it is gonna create
YAML-based build pipeline files.
In order now, create a pipeline based on the classic editor,
I can choose your other git,
I can choose now a source of GitHub.
I'll scroll down.
It is using the GitHub service connection.
I can browse my repository,
I'll load all of the repositories,
I'll choose my build app,
I'll click on select,
it's gonna choose the main branch,
I'll choose continue.
Here I need to, again, choose what do I want to build,
I'll choose asp.netco, hit on apply.
And let me go ahead and hide this.
We now have a visual representation of our pipeline.
Here we can choose our agent specification,
again, using the Microsoft hosted agent.
Let me go ahead and choose Windows latest
to basically build our pipeline.
This pipeline has various tasks in place.
Here you have testing, you have building,
you have the NuGet Restore, et cetera.
You also have to publish the artifacts as well.
Since I only want to show the basics
when it comes onto this classic editor,
I can go on to a task and I can remove it
if I don't require it.
So, I don't require that task,
I don't require this task,
I don't require the testing of assemblies.
Yes, building is important.
Now, here, when it comes onto NuGet
it's actually using quite an older version of NuGet itself.
I'm gonna make sure to use a new version,
so the version I want to use is 6.2.1.
Once you have all of this in place, let me save and queue,
so it's gonna go ahead and save this particular pipeline
and then cue it accordingly.
We have the agent specification, the main branch,
if you want you can specify a commit message
but I'll just go it and do a save and run.
This will now run our job if you go onto the job.
Again, all the aspects remain the same.
I say the only difference is
we now have kind of an editor
to go ahead and build the pipeline.
The main focus of the exam is using YAML
when it comes onto building your code pipelines,
and I believe the stress over there is
because it has the ability to be version controlled
along with your application code,
so I told you at any point in time,
you can go ahead and look at the previous versions
of your YAML-based pipeline.
And (indistinct) you can see this pipeline is also complete.
In this chapter I just want to showcase
how you can use a personal access token
when it comes onto accessing a GitHub Repository,
at the same time I also wanna show you
how to make use of the classic editor.
Now, before we actually end this chapter,
a quick note when it comes onto this pipeline.
If I click on the edit pipeline,
again, you can see this interface.
Now apart from being able to add
additional tasks onto this job,
so, again, it's basically jobs
that are running on a machine and each job has tasks,
and here instead of YAML code
you basically have a visual representation
of all of the attributes, basically,
what are the arguments,
what are the properties of that particular task?
At the same time you can define variables,
you have triggers, this is important.
If you want to ensure now
that every change, every commit that you make
onto your GitHub reports tree
triggers this particular pipeline.
You have to enable continuous integration,
this is important.
Otherwise, when you make a commit
onto the GitHub Repository,
it'll not go ahead and trigger this pipeline.
You need to go ahead and enable (indistinct) integration,
and you can just go ahead and do a simple save.
That's it.
And now when you make any change
onto your GitHub repository,
it should go ahead and trigger this pipeline.

--- Using SonarCloud ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, I want to go through the usage of a tool
that's known as Sonar.
Actually, SonarQube and SonarCloud can allow you to get
a lot of aspects when it comes onto code quality.
This can actually go through your source code
and give you a feedback on how you can improve
the quality of your code.
The first thing I need to do is to sign up for SonarCloud.
If you go onto the pricing section, if you scroll down,
when you look at open source projects, there is no cost,
and if you have any sort of private projects,
then there is a price per month.
Let me go ahead and click on the login feature,
and let me try to log in with Azure DevOps.
Here, it's asking to give access onto SonarCloud
onto a particular account, so this is fine.
I'll click on yes.
And now, we have SonarCloud in place.
Now, we wanna integrate basically SonarCloud
and Azure DevOps.
We wanna ensure that as part of our build pipeline,
Sonar will go ahead and inspect our code,
and give any sort of feedback.
I first need to create a project here.
If I go onto my projects.
Here, let me go ahead and click on add new.
So let me analyze a new project.
Yeah, since I'm just testing,
let me go ahead and create a project manually.
I need to create an organization.
I just need to give a key.
Then I'll scroll down, I'll choose continue.
In terms of the plan,
I can just go ahead and choose the free plan for now.
Let me create the organization.
Obviously after this, I'm gonna go ahead and delete
basically my DevOps organization even SonarCloud,
because I said we're only doing all of this
just for testing purposes.
I'll just give a project key and let me click on setup.
Now, the next thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna go onto my account.
I want to go onto security.
I want to generate now a token.
This token will be used as a service connection
in our Azure DevOps project.
(keys clacking)
So I'll just click on generate here.
So we have the token in place.
Now, I need to go onto my project.
Actually, go back onto Azure DevOps.
I need to actually go onto my organization.
Let me go onto organization settings, onto extensions,
browse the marketplace,
search for Sonar,
I'll choose SonarCloud.
I need to install this extension, I'll get it for free.
I'll install it for my organization.
It's all done.
I can proceed back once this is done.
Now, let me go onto my agile project, onto project settings.
Let me go onto service connections, new service connection.
Let me see if I get SonarCloud.
Yes, it is there.
Let me go onto next.
Let me scroll on top.
I need to have that SonarCloud token in place.
Hence, let me go ahead and copy the token,
and let's place it here.
I'll give a service connection name.
Grant access onto all pipelines
and then let me go ahead and click on verify and save.
So we have this also in place.
Let me go onto one of my existing pipelines.
Let me go onto the web app pipeline.
Let me click on edit.
I'll just hide this.
In doSNOW, if I search for Sonar,
I can see I have three of them in place.
First is to prepare the analysis configuration.
I'll choose SonarCloud as my service endpoint.
It's gonna load my organization,
I'll go ahead and choose that.
I'll integrate it with MSBuild in terms of the project key.
So my projects, if I go onto my projects,
this is my project key, agile project.
Let me go ahead and place it here.
I'll put the same project name.
Let me click on add.
That task is in place.
Now, I need to add the next task again for Sonar.
This is to run the code analysis
and the final task is to publish basically.
So again, I'll go onto Sonar,
I'll publish the Quality Gate result.
Now, also for my pipeline,
I'm going to use Windows latest instead of Ubuntu latest.
And the next change is since we're now using Windows latest,
I don't need the task to install .NET too.
I'm not gonna use this build task now,
I'm gonna be using MSBuild in terms of the restore,
so I'll delete this.
I don't need the test project as such.
Let me go ahead and delete all of this.
First is the preparation stage
then we have the build stage, this should be fine.
And we have the analysis and the publish.
I'll just go ahead and use the steps,
the initial task of NuGet installer and the NuGet command.
Once all of this is in place,
let me go ahead and now click on save,
and this should trigger a run of the pipeline.
Let's come back once the job is complete.
Once the job is complete,
if you go onto your project now,
you can see some information in place
when it comes onto the first analysis of your main branch.
You can look at different aspects
such as the reliability, maintainability, et cetera.
If you go onto the issues,
you will see several issues being logged here.
So it has gone through all of the aspects
when it comes onto the code
and it's giving you different issues
that could be of concern with the code itself.
So you can actually go ahead and ensure
that you have a code quality tool in place
that inspects your code
when it comes onto your build pipeline.

--- Parallel jobs ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes onto parallel jobs.
Now, when we've been running our pipelines,
we have only had one job in place,
but as part of your pipelines,
you can actually define multiple jobs
within a pipeline itself.
And in a large organization,
you might have multiple pipelines
that could be running at the same time.
Now, when you create a free account as we have done,
initially we could not even run one pipeline,
we had to send a request onto Microsoft
so that they could allow that grant
of running a particular job.
But even at that point in time,
they only allow us to run one job at a time.
In a large organization, this could be an issue.
If they have a lot of pipelines
that need to run at the same time
or if they are multiple jobs
that may need to run in parallel,
they may not be able to do this
because they are only allowed one job at a time.
So then, the organization should look
towards purchasing additional parallel jobs.
If I go onto my organization
and go onto organization settings.
If I go onto pipelines and parallel jobs,
here you can see that is part of Microsoft hosted.
Since we have private projects, we are on the free tier,
we are only allowed one parallel job,
and that too we have a limit of how many minutes
are allowed per month.
Here you can see how much we have consumed.
Again, when it comes onto the self hosted jobs,
again, we only have one parallel job in place.
If we need more parallel jobs,
then we have to go ahead and purchase them accordingly.
In the chapter, I just want to give this important note
that if you want to run multiple jobs at a time,
you need to go ahead and purchase licenses
for running these parallel jobs.

--- Note on pipeline caching ---

(upbeat jazzy music)
Instructor: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to pipeline caching.
Now, this is used to actually reduce the build time.
See, what happens is when you have an application
that has multiple packages, see for example in .NET,
I told you that you might have NuGet packages
in place for your project
and a solution might be having multiple NuGet packages.
In order to probably restore this entire solution
this entire project and get the NuGet packages,
the packages actually have to be downloaded
from the internet.
Now, because these packages are on the internet
and they need to be downloaded on the agent,
this could increase the overall build time
for your pipeline.
Then what you should consider
is the use of pipeline caching.
What this does, is it can actually cache those packages
so that they can be reused in subsequent runs.
In each run, downloading the package over and over again
since you know that those are the packages
that are going to be reused
in multiple pipeline runs,
go ahead and download those packages
and simply add a cache task.
This is how you can actually go about doing this.
In this chapter,
I just wanna give this important note
on the concept of having pipeline caching in place.

--- Azure Pipelines integration with Microsoft Teams ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through the integration that is available
with Azure Pipelines with Microsoft Teams.
We have seen this integration in place with Azure Repos
with Azure Boards, and it's also available
when it comes onto a Azure Pipelines as well.
There is integration with Slack as well.
Again here, if you want to basically subscribe
onto a pipeline, you can give the pipeline URL.
You can give the definition ID as part of the pipeline URL.
If you just give the project URL,
then you can subscribe onto all of the pipelines
that are part of the project.
I'll just showcase a very simple example,
similar to how we have done all of this earlier on
when it came onto Azure Boards and Azure Repos.
Here again, I have a team in place
when it comes onto to Microsoft Teams.
I'll go onto my apps.
I need to now go onto Azure Pipelines.
(keyboard clattering)
I'll choose Azure Pipelines and let me add it on to a team.
I'll choose my general team.
I'll set up a bot.
So now we are fine here.
What I can do is let me delete this
and now let me subscribe onto a pipeline URL.
So what I'll do is
I'll go onto one of my existing pipelines,
I'll take the definition ID and the project,
everything from here.
I'll go onto Microsoft Teams.
I want to choose Azure Pipelines.
Here, I want to now subscribe and I'll enter the URL.
Let me send this particular request.
So now it has added the subscription.
Now, please note that it might ask you
to sign in with your Azure DevOps credentials.
Please go ahead and do that,
and you can go ahead and subscribe again.
Once you have this in place,
let me go onto my repository.
I'll go onto Webapp and let me make a change.
I'll go onto Pages,
onto the index page just to make a change.
I'll click on Edit.
I'll change the version number.
Click on Commit, and click on Commit here.
You want to ensure that it triggers a pipeline run.
If I go onto my pipelines
I can see a pipeline run in place.
I'll just wait here in Microsoft Teams.
I'll click on New Messages.
I can now see the pipeline in the running state.
So the state of the pipeline
is now being reflected here in Microsoft Teams.
And after some time you should be getting a message
when the pipeline run is complete.
In the chapter, just wanna kind of go through again
the integration which is present
when it comes onto Azure pipelines and Microsoft Teams.

--- Using GitHub Actions ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through the GitHub workflow
that you can apply for a GitHub repository.
This GitHub workflow can actually trigger an Azure pipeline.
So one way is to create a pipeline
in Azure pipelines itself
that could pick up code from a GitHub repository,
but at the same time
you can also create a workflow within your GitHub code,
your repository, that could trigger a pipeline
in Azure DevOps.
Now, I wanna go ahead
and show you how you can go about doing this.
I'm using one of the repositories
that I have in my GitHub account.
I'm first gonna open up that particular code
from Visual Studio.
I'll go to Clone, I'll clone a repository.
Yeah, I'll choose GitHub.
Yeah, let me choose the GitHub repository
and I'll choose Clone.
I'll double click on the solution file.
Now within my project, I need to create a new folder.
So I'll click on add, and add a new folder.
This needs to be .GitHub,
and within this I'm gonna create now another folder
and this is gonna be workflows.
In this workflow, I'm gonna add a new item.
This is gonna be a YAML file,
so I'll scroll down and search
for the ability to create a YAML file.
I'll give a name of workflow and then let me click on add.
I'm gonna add some code in this YAML file,
here we give a name for this particular workflow.
What is a branch within this particular GitHub repository?
I'm talking about GitHub itself.
So based on any push request onto the main branch
or any pull request with the main branch,
it should go ahead and trigger this particular workflow.
This particular workflow will go ahead
and trigger a pipeline in Azure.
It can run on Uber and to latest
and we have to give what is the pipeline name.
If I go onto my pipelines,
I can go ahead and choose any pipeline.
Let me go ahead and choose the same pipeline name here.
So I'll give the name.
What is the project URL?
The project URL is the Agile Project.
I'll just copy this and let me paste it here.
Let me save all of this.
There is something known as Secrets.Azure DevOps token.
There's something that we still have to create.
This is now gonna be a personal access token.
GitHub needs to go ahead and have this token,
this token needs to be generated from Azure DevOps itself.
This token allow the permissions to work
with the pipelines as part of a Azure DevOps.
Once we have this in place,
so this is like now a workflow
that can run from within your GitHub repository itself.
I'm now going to go ahead
and publish this onto the GitHub repository.
I'll say added workflow.
Let me do a commit all and push.
Remember, this is now going on to GitHub.
Once it's done, let me go
and create now a personal access token.
I'll generate a new token, is for the GitHub workflow.
I need to give access onto the build.
So I'll choose build, read and read and execute.
Let me hit on Create,
will have the GitHub workflow token in place.
We need to now add that somewhere here for DevOps 6,000.
Let me go onto settings.
I'll scroll down.
We need to go onto Secrets.
Go onto Actions.
Let me create a new organization secret,
I need to give the secret name.
So this is the secret name.
Let me go ahead and copy this and let's place it here.
In terms of the value I'll copy this onto the clipboard,
place it here, and let's add the secret.
Our workflow is now going to use this token.
This token is like a password
that has the ability to work with the builds
in your Azure DevOps account.
Here, let me go and switch
between the solutions and the available views.
I've got the folder view.
Now in terms of the folder view,
I can see that the GitHub folder
is in the GitHub folder here,
I need to drag it onto the main GitHub folder here,
so I'll say, do you want to basically move it?
So I'll say, okay.
So now it's moved on here.
Let me go ahead back onto the solution file,
so it's not present here.
Then let me go onto get changes.
Let me say workflow folder change, maybe do a commit all
and a push to push this change onto our repository.
And also, just a quick thing, in the workflow YAML file,
I want to go ahead and trigger another pipeline
because the earlier GitHub pipeline that we were using
is actually based on the classic editor.
Now let me go ahead and push all of the changes.
Let me do a commit all and push.
Once this is complete,
if you go onto GitHub repository,
you can see the folder .GitHub/workflows in place.
If you go onto the actions,
you can see now a workflow change has been triggered.
So this is now triggering the pipeline itself.
If you go onto it,
you'll see details about the workflow itself.
So it should have gone ahead
and triggered the Azure pipeline.
If I go onto my pipelines here,
you will see it is triggering our web app pipeline,
and this is now in progress.
In this chapter, just wanna kind of show you
how we can use something known as this GitHub workflow
to also trigger a pipeline
defined as part of your Azure DevOps project.

--- What have we seen so far ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in our prior chapters
we had seen a lot when it comes onto Azure Pipelines.
We have seen how we could create a build pipeline
based on code that is stored in Azure Repos.
Here whenever a change is made out onto the code base
it would go ahead and trigger a pipeline
within Azure Pipelines itself.
We had also seen how we could integrate unit tests
within our pipeline so that after a build is carried out
it would go ahead and conduct a test
and we'd get the result accordingly.
We could also integrate Azure Pipelines
with GitHub so that when any change is made
onto the code base within a GitHub repository
it would go ahead and trigger the pipeline.
Now we're gonna look at another tool
when it comes onto continuous integration.
This is an open source tool, it's a very popular tool.
It's Jenkins.
Now the reason we are having a look at Jenkins is
we need to see how an external continuous integration tool
can actually pick up code from Azure Repos.
So we are gonna install an instance of Jenkins
on an Azure virtual machine,
and we'll see how it can be used to pick up code
from GitHub initially,
and then we'll see how it can pick up code from Azure Repos.
So let's go ahead.

--- Lab - Installing Jenkins ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in order to install Jenkins,
we need to have a machine in place
for hosting an instance of Jenkins.
That's why I'm going back on to the Azure portal
wherein I'm going to go ahead
and create an Azure virtual machine
to host the Jenkins instance.
Here in all resources,
I'll go ahead and create a new resource.
This time, I'm gonna choose Ubuntu server.
I'm gonna install Jenkins on a Linux distribution.
I'll choose one of my existing resource groups that I have.
I will give a name for the VM.
I'll leave the region as North Europe.
In terms of the availability, it's none.
I'll scroll down.
In terms of the authentication type,
I'll keep it simple.
I'll choose password.
I'll give a username and a password,
which I will then use
to log into the Linux VM.
Go on to Next for the disks, leave it as it.
Go on to Networking.
Now, since I already have a virtual network
in this location, it'll go ahead
and take the same virtual network.
Otherwise, for you, it will go ahead
and create a new Azure virtual network.
It's gonna have a new public IP address.
So I'm leaving everything as it is.
I'm gonna go on to Next for management.
Leave everything as it is.
Go on to advanced, on tags, onto review and create.
And let me go ahead and hit on Create.
It will just take a couple of minutes.
We will have the machine in place.
Now, I'm on a Windows machine.
If I wanna connect on to this Linux VM,
you can use the PuTTY tool
to connect onto the Linux VM.
Or you can even connect onto the Linux VM
from Visual Studio Code.
It's up to you which option you want to choose.
You can go ahead and download and use the PuTTY tool.
It's a very simple download and installation process.
On my Windows system,
once you have the tool in place,
you can go ahead and launch the tool.
Here we have to give the IP address
of the machine that we want to connect to.
I can see the deployment of my VM is complete.
So I'll go ahead onto resource.
I need to take the public IP address.
Let me go ahead and copy this.
And let me place it here.
Click on Open.
I'll click on Yes.
Here I need to connect via that username and password
that I mentioned
when creating the machine.
Now, next, we're gonna execute some commands
on this machine.
The first command is to install the Java Development Kit.
The Java Development Kit is actually required
for the working of Jenkins.
The next set of statements is used to install Jenkins.
The next statement is to ensure
to allow traffic via the firewall
to allow traffic on port 8080.
We'll have to do the same thing
for the network security group.
Then we can start the Jenkins instance
if it is not started.
Here we can see the status of the Jenkins instance.
This command is just if you want to run something
with higher privileges.
Let me go ahead and run these commands.
I'll copy the first command.
I'll just right click on my mouse
to have the command in place.
I'll hit on Enter.
It's asking do you wanna continue?
Yes, I do want to continue.
Now, please note that when it comes
to the installation of Jenkins,
I was referring onto the Jenkins documentation.
I did have some issues trying
to have Jenkins in place on either a Linux VM
or on a Windows VM,
and sometimes you need to do some additional research
just to see how it works.
That's one of the benefits I've seen
when it comes onto the Azure DevOps set of tools.
See, there everything is already set up for you.
It's on the cloud.
You just have to go ahead and start using the set of tools.
When you install your own continuous integration tool,
you have to manage the installation,
the configuration and you have to manage the system
as a whole.
Once this is complete, let me go ahead
and execute the other commands.
So I'll just copy this.
Again place it here.
Let's take the next command.
Then
let's update the package index.
And then finally, we can go ahead
and install Jenkins.
Now, by default,
Jenkins actually runs on port 8080.
So we'll have to open up the firewall on the machine.
At the same time, we also need
to ensure that we add a firewall,
basically a rule here in the network security group.
I'll go on to the networking section.
Again, coming from Azure administration
or even Azure development,
you'll come to know at least of the basics
of adding an inbound port rule.
This is just to allow traffic
onto the Azure virtual machine
because by default, traffic is not allowed from the internet
onto an Azure VM.
I'll add an inbound port rule.
I'll leave everything as it is
because by default, it is taking the destination port range
of 8080 but now I'll leave everything as it is.
And let me click on Add.
This is from the Azure portal level.
Once we have Jenkins in place,
we need to also create a firewall rule
at the OS level, at the Linux level
to allow traffic on port 8080.
And then we can start the Jenkins instance.
We can then see the status of Jenkins.
Is it up and running?
Yes, it seems to be up and running.
So we can leave it as it is.
Now if I go on to the overview,
and take the public IP address,
I'll go on to new tab, and port 8080.
Obviously, your virtual machine
will be having a different public IP address.
In order now to unlock Jenkins,
it's telling us that we need to copy a password
that is in this particular location.
Let me go ahead and just exit from here.
So I just did a semicolon and Q on my keyboard.
We now need to copy the password,
which is present,
basically in this initial admin password file.
Let me go on to this location.
So I'll do a cd.
Right click on my mouse.
It's saying permission is denied.
Hence we can elevate ourselves using this sudo command.
I'll right click on my mouse
and now let me go ahead onto that same location.
I'll copy this.
Do a cd.
Again right click on my mouse.
If I do a directory listing,
I have this initial admin password.
Let me do more.
Initial admin password.
This is a password.
Let's go ahead and copy this.
Control + C on my keyboard.
Paste it here.
Click on Continue.
And we should have now unlocked Jenkins.
It needs to install some plugins.
I'll install the suggested plugins.
So I'll just click on this.
It'll now start installing some plugins.
I just go ahead and reduce the zoom.
We can see all of the plugins getting installed.
It'll just take around four to five minutes.
Once this is complete,
it's asking us to create our first admin user.
I'll just name this as Jenkins admin.
I'll give a simple password of Jenkins only.
I'll give the same full name here.
I just need to give an email address.
Let me do a save and continue.
And now the instance configuration is complete.
I'll do a save and finish.
I'll start using Jenkins.
So now we have the Jenkins instance in place.

--- Jenkins - Creating a build pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the last chapter,
we had gone ahead and installed Jenkins
on an Azure virtual machine.
Now, we're gonna use it to basically first build
a web project that's available in GitHub.
So we'll take an example off the web app
that is available in our DevOps organization
within our account.
Now for this, we need to still install other tools
on this machine.
This is like setting up our self-hosted agent.
See, Jenkins is a software
that is used for continuous integration,
but you still need to install the tools
that is required to build your application.
Do you remember what we had installed
when we setup our own self-hosted agent?
We had installed Git and we had installed the .NET SDK.
We have to do the same thing now on this Linux machine
that is hosting Jenkins
because Jenkins is going to pull down
from, let's say, our GitHub repository,
on this virtual machine itself, our Linux VM,
and then it will build it,
hence we need to have the tools in place.
We need to have Git in place
and we need to have .NET.
I'll just clear the screen.
Again, I have the commands that I'm gonna execute.
First is for the installation of Git.
I'll just update the package index.
Although at the moment, let me first do an exit,
so that I exit from the elevated suit of privilege,
come back as a normal user,
and now let me update the package index.
Then I will install Git.
And we can use the final command
to look at the Git version.
So we can say Git in place.
The next set off steps is to install now the .NET SDK 6.0.
Then I'll do the next set of steps.
This will actually go ahead and install the SDK.
Now this is complete.
Now before I go ahead and create
the build pipeline in Jenkins,
there are a couple of more steps I'm going to perform.
This step is required to get permissions
for this var lib Jenkins directory.
So by default, all of the work that is done by Jenkins,
it's like the home directory is in this particular location.
When you try to create
a continuous integration pipeline in Jenkins
and when you try to build it,
when you try to build your application
it will most probably fail,
and this is because of the privilege required
to access this particular location.
Hence, since this is just a demo to show you
how Jenkins can be used to actually later on
pick up code from Azure Repos,
I'm giving some permissions here on two folders
so that the build can run.
You can obviously change the Jenkins home
onto another location.
What I mean by this home,
remember on our Windows machine,
when we have the self-host agent,
we have created this kind of work folder.
This work folder was then used by Azure DevOps
to store the code, store the build, et cetera.
Similarly, by default, the home folder
is in this particular location,
but we will not have permissions to work with this location.
So firstly, let me go ahead and give the permissions
for this particular directory.
Okay, so that is done.
Now let me go over onto Jenkins.
I'll create a new item.
Here I'm just creating a simple project.
This is gonna be a free style project.
I'll click on okay.
So we have this entire screen.
This is the configuration of the build pipeline.
In source code management, I'm gonna choose Git.
What is the repository URL?
So I'll go onto DevOps web app.
Let me go onto the code.
I'll copy this.
Place it here.
I'm gonna add Jenkins' credentials,
so that we can authenticate onto our GitHub account.
This is gonna be a simple username and a password for now.
I'll click on add.
I'll choose that credential.
This is gonna be used to access this particular repository.
I'll scroll down.
In terms of the branch that needs to be built,
it's my main branch.
I'll scroll down.
I now need to add a build step.
Since we are working on a Linux VM
that has Jenkins installed, I'll choose execute shell.
I can put the command of .NET build
and then star dot any solution file that I have.
Now let me go ahead and click on save.
We can go ahead and click on build now
to build this particular pipeline.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now I can see this is complete if you go onto it.
I'd gone onto the build that was completed here.
You can go onto the console output.
And in the console output, you can see a check out was done,
and then it used the build tool to build our solution,
to a build a project within the solution.
So in this chapter, kinda wanna go through
how you can build a .NET application
that is hosted on a GitHub repository.

--- Jenkins Integration with Azure repos ---

-: Now in the prior chapter,
we had seen how we could use Jenkins
to have a build pipeline in place
that would go ahead and pick up code from GitHub.
Now in this chapter, we're gonna see how
the Jenkins pipeline can pick up code from Azure Repos.
For this, I'll use, you know,
one of my existing repositories that I have
in a Azure Repos, My web app, that should be good enough.
In Jenkins, let me go ahead onto the dashboard
and create a new project.
Again, a very simple project.
I'll choose Freestyle, choose Okay,
we have this in place in source code management.
I'm gonna choose Git, I need to add the URL.
I'll take this repository URL, I'll place it here.
We need to authenticate Jenkins to access the code
within this URL.
I'll again add Jenkins credentials here.
How do we get these credentials here for your a Azure Repos?
Click on the Clone button, generate Get credentials here,
I'll copy the username, place it here,
and let's copy the password, and let's place it here.
Let me click on Add and then go ahead
and choose it accordingly.
And now it should be able to authenticate.
Again, it should be the main branch
because you have the main branch in place.
Scroll down, add a build step to execute shell.
Again, the same thing, dot net build,
star dot your solution file.
Click on Save, build the project
and the build is again complete.
Now let's take this a step further.
You wanna ensure that whenever any change is made
onto this particular repository,
it should now trigger a pipeline run in Jenkins.
So we had seen how we could do this
within a Azure DevOps itself
because there was a direct integration
between Azure Repos and a Azure pipelines.
But this is now an external continuous integration tool.
Now you want to ensure that whenever a code change occurs
on Azure Repos, it should now trigger a build in Jenkins.
How can we make this happen?
We have to now go onto our project settings.
There is something known as service hooks.
Go onto it.
Here, let me go ahead and create a new subscription
onto a service hook.
There should be, Jenkins has a tool, go onto Next.
What's happening is you are trying
to hook on to another external tool.
And here, the external tool is Jenkins.
You decide what is the trigger
for this particular type of event.
Here, the event is that whenever code is pushed
onto a repository, and go ahead and trigger
this particular external tool, that's Jenkins.
In terms of the repository,
I'll choose My web app repository.
You can choose the main branch
or you could choose any branch.
Go onto Next, trigger a generic build.
We need to give the base URL of Jenkins.
This is the base URL, I'll copy this, place it here.
What is the username?
So it is Jenkins admin,
and we need an API token or a password.
You can actually go onto your Jenkins admin,
you can choose configure, here under API token,
you can add a new token,
you can give a name of Azure DevOps, click on Generate.
Copy this token now itself, it's copied, place it here.
And which project do you want to build?
So it's automatically now gone onto Jenkins
and it has the projects in place.
I want to choose project B.
Let me go ahead and hit on Finish.
We now have this service hook in place.
Now if I go onto Azure Repos,
let me go onto the pages, I'll go onto the index page.
Let me make a change, I'll click on Edit.
Just change the version quickly.
Hit on commit, hit on commit here.
Let me go onto Jenkins, I'll go onto the dashboard,
let me go onto project B.
And in a moment's time,
we should be seeing a new build here.
And yes, it's come up.
So now a core change within Azure Repos
has triggered a build in Jenkins.
This is how we now have the continuous integration cycle
in place when it comes onto using Azure Repos
along with Jenkins.
So in this chapter, we have seen the integration
between Azure Repos and Jenkins.

--- Note - Managing agents ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding deployment ---

(funky dance music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior section we had seen
how we could create bills of our application,
really help our Azure Pipelines.
Well, now it's time to go ahead
and look at the deployment of our bill.
So we have our code,
that could be in a git repository in Azure Repos,
that could go ahead and trigger a bill
whenever a commit is made onto the repository
that bill could happen in Azure Pipelines.
And now we should go ahead
and look at how do we deploy our bill?
The continuous bill process is part
of a process known as continuous integration.
And when you're looking at
deploying your application on a continual basis
you are looking towards a concept of continuous delivery.
So in the end, your application needs to be
posted on some sort of infrastructure because
you want users to be able to access your application.
For example, if you have a web application
that has been built with the help of Azure Pipelines,
you now need to go ahead and deploy the application.
When it comes onto the Azure platform
you could deploy your application on an
Azure Virtual Machine that's infrastructure has a service.
Or you could look at a platform as a service,
for example, Azure web apps.
Or maybe you wanna go ahead and deploy it on
a container base service, such as Azure Kubernetes.
Again, it depends upon the requirement of your application.
Now, apart from this, before we go ahead onto looking at
how do we manage releases for your application,
or basically deployment of your application.
Why Azure Pipelines?
Wanna give another important point
when it comes onto the delivery process.
Normally for your application,
you might first deploy the application
on a test environment, that is test infrastructure.
Here you might want to go ahead
and conduct any sort of basic testing
for the application just to make sure that it works.
Then from there, you might go ahead
and deploy your application on a staging environment.
Here you'd have a small subset of your
end users who would go ahead and test the application,
test the functionality of the application,
and once they sign off, when they say everything is okay,
then you might go ahead and publish the application
on production based infrastructure.
So before going ahead,
wanna have kind of an introduction first,
on the delivery process for your application.

--- Azure Web App - Manual deployment ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now we're gonna look at an example
when it comes onto releasing an application
onto an environment.
For this I'll make use
of one of the repositories that we have.
So I'll go ahead and make use of the web app repository
that we have.
This contains a simple ASP.NET application.
We had seen this earlier on.
I'll clone this code from Visual Studio.
While opening up Visual Studio,
I'll clone a repository.
Now you might be having already a clone version
of that repository on your local system.
The reason why I'm cloning it again
onto a different temporary directory
is I wanna ensure that I have fresh code
from the repository itself.
I'll browse a repository of a Azure DevOps.
I'll choose the web app repository
and hit on the clone button.
Once I have my project in place
let me double-click on the solution file
so that I get a solution view of my projects.
We have our web project in place
and we have our test project in place.
We need some infrastructure
on which we can deploy our application code.
For this I'm going back onto the Azure portal.
First we'll see how we can deploy code
onto the Azure web app service.
Hence, in all resources I'll hit on create.
I'm gonna choose the option of a web app.
I'm creating a resource.
Here let me choose
one of the existing resource groups that I have.
If you want to can create a new resource group.
I need to give a unique name
when it comes onto the web app.
In terms of code I'm choosing .NET 6.
That's because the underlying framework
that has been used to build the application is .NET 6.
For the OS I can leave it as it is.
I'll just change the region.
It's gonna create an app service plan.
Again, coming from an AZ-104 background
on AZ-204 background.
You'll be familiar with the Azure web app service
and the app service plan.
I'll just change the size,
let me choose basic,
that should be good enough for us.
So I'll go on Dev/Test, choose basic,
hit on apply.
Go onto deployment.
Go onto networking.
So it's leaving everything as it is.
Only in monitoring for now
I'll disable application insights.
Go on tags, go onto review and create.
And let me go ahead and hit on create.
So we're trying to, first of all
have our infrastructure in place
before we can actually go ahead and release our application.
And don't worry in a subsequent section,
we're gonna see how do we automatically build
this infrastructure as well.
We wanna go step by step
wherein we might be having already the infrastructure
in place and normally in your production environments,
you normally have your production based infrastructure
in place and you just need to deploy your application.
Hence, we're first gonna build all of our infrastructure
and then see the deployment process.
And then in the subsequent section
we'll see how we can automatically
build this infrastructure.
We have our web app in place.
If I go ahead onto the resource,
let me quickly take the URL.
I'm taking the URL, going onto a new tab.
We should be having the demo application
that comes along with a Azure web apps.
Right, so this is in place.
Now, the manual process I want to go through first.
For your web application
you can right-click on the project,
that's the web app.
We can hit on publish.
We can create a published profile.
I can choose as Azure as my target.
Go onto next.
Choose Azure App Service.
Go onto next.
I can choose my web app.
Go onto next.
Here in terms of publish
I'll just choose the publish option and hit on finish.
This will create a publish profile.
Let me click on the publish button.
This is now gonna publish our code on to the Azure web app.
So again, please note here,
Visual Studio will first build the application,
create a published version of the application,
and then copy that published version
of the application onto the Azure web app.
Again, all of these steps are very important.
We've only seen the process
of building and publishing an application.
The next step is to release the application.
But again, remember all of these
are still very important steps
when it comes onto the entire life cycle
of building and releasing your application.
Once a publish is complete, it's gonna open up
the URL of the Azure web app,
and we have the application deployment in place.
Now let's mark an end onto this chapter
and move onto the next
to see how we can deploy our application
while the use of releases within a Azure pipelines.

--- Azure Web App - Release pipelines ---

(upbeat music)
-: In the prior chapter,
we had looked at the manual deployment
of our application onto the Azure Web App service.
In this chapter, let's see how we can manage the deployment
via the use of releases within the Azure Pipeline service.
Onto Pipelines, let me just right click
and open up Pipelines, the link in a new tab.
I first want to go on to the web app pipeline
and click on Edit.
Just wanna see what I have
in terms of the build pipeline
because this is also very, very important.
So we have our pull, Windows latest.
We have the NuGet Installer,
the NuGet command for restoring it.
I'm gonna remove the task of preparing.
So in our cloud, delete all of this.
And let me replace all of this, the VS build
with the previous configuration that we had seen
of using the .NET Core CLI task
for building our project
and publishing our project.
Here in terms of publish web projects,
it's being marked as true.
Let me go ahead and click on Save.
Just giving a commit message.
I'll click on Save
and this should go ahead and trigger a build.
If I go on to my web app,
let's wait for this build to complete.
Once a build is complete,
if I go on to the job,
we can see all of the tasks are also complete.
So we have to first ensure
that the build pipeline is working as expected.
Next, under pipelines, I can go on to releases.
I can create a new release pipeline now.
This is gonna direct me onto the classic version
when it comes on to creating a release pipeline.
Please note again,
when it comes on to creating a release pipeline,
you have the YAML format
and you have the classic version.
We're gonna cover quite a lot
when it comes onto the classic version
because I have seen this is more predominant
when it comes on to release pipelines.
Initially, it's asking me to select a template
when it comes on to deployment.
I'm gonna choose an empty job for now.
It is then telling me to give a stage name.
So let me give a stage name of deploy to test environment.
Let me click on Save here.
I'll hit on OK.
I'll just close this and let me hide this.
So we have kind of a canvas here
in which we can define
how do we release our application?
We can add an artifact here and what we mean by artifact,
it's basically what we want to deploy.
In our case, we want to deploy a build
of our application.
We then have multiple stages.
Remember I showed you a diagram earlier on
in the beginning of the section explaining
that you could deploy your application
onto a test environment for initial testing?
You could deploy it onto a staging environment
where it could be tested by end users
and then it could be deployed onto a production environment.
Hence, one of the things
that you can do is to define multiple stages
in your release pipeline.
You can have one stage for deployment
onto your test infrastructure,
another stage for deployment
onto your staging infrastructure
and another stage for deployment
on your production infrastructure.
Don't worry, we'll look at an example
on this in a subsequent chapter.
I'm going to choose adding an artifact
because I want to take something from my build pipeline.
We can choose from where should we pick up our artifact.
There are choices in place.
I'm gonna keep it as build
because I wanna take a build for my build pipeline.
I'll scroll down.
It's in the Agile project.
In terms of the source, I'll choose Web App.
If I scroll down,
it'll ask us okay, we want to take the latest build.
It's currently saying that no version is available
for Web App or the latest version
has no artifacts to publish.
Keep a note of this at this point in time.
I'll just click on Add.
So ideally what will happen
is when we basically run our build pipeline,
or when it is triggered,
it will create a build.
We've already seen that, right?
And that build of the application
will be transferred as an artifact
onto this entire release pipeline.
And then that build should go on to this stage,
which is the deployment stage.
Let's go ahead and define now our deployment stage.
I'll click on this one job or a task.
Again, we have some information.
We have gone to the test.
We've gone on to the task tab here.
We have an agent job.
So again, the release of your application
is gonna run on agent.
This is similar to the agents
that you have when it comes on to your build pipelines
'cause in the end, again you need some sort
of machine to execute the commands
to release your application.
Hence, all of this is going to run
on an agent that's based on hosted Windows 2019.
We're gonna leave this as it is.
In the agent job,
we can click on this plus symbol
to add a task and again, we have various tasks in place.
The similar kind of tasks that we've seen in build pipelines
but this time, we want to release something.
I'm gonna search for Azure Web App.
There should be a task for deploying an Azure Web App.
I'll click on Add.
Once you do that, you can actually go on to the task itself
and now define or configure the task.
I need to first choose my Azure subscription.
I'll choose Azure subscription one
because my web app is part of this subscription.
It is now asking me to authorize
so that this Agile project that we have
within Azure DevOps
can actually work with that subscription.
So I'll click on Authorize.
Now, internally what this does
is so it'll ask me to log in.
It's gonna create a service connection for your project
on to the Azure subscription.
I'll just enter my password.
So it's authorizing.
This is now done.
Actually in another tab,
in Agile project,
if I go on to project settings
and if you go on to your service connections,
you will see a service connection
has been automatically created
when it comes on to your Azure subscription.
That means now you can actually work
with the resources that are part of your Azure account.
In the app type, I'm gonna choose Web App on Windows
because my Azure Web App is based on a Windows platform.
I should be able to see my web app here.
So this kind of configuration
is making it much more easier to go ahead
and define okay, where do you want
to deploy this particular application?
You can give a name for this release pipeline.
Can click on Save here.
We have this in place.
And we can also create a release from here itself.
Now, the entire pipeline,
the way it should behave is when you commit a code change
onto your web app repository,
it should trigger the build pipeline
and the build pipeline
should trigger this particular release pipeline.
That's how it should be.
And we're gonna see this entire process.
But at the same time,
if you wanna just test this release pipeline
to see if it works,
you can directly just create a release.
In the last chapter,
we had already created a build pipeline.
So ideally that build should be there
but based on your knowledge
of a Microsoft-hosted agent,
you understand what happens to the build in the end.
So will this pipeline be a success or a failure?
Let's go ahead and find out.
Let's create a release.
So we are manually creating a release here
wherein we are saying please take the artifact
from the build pipeline and go ahead and release it.
Let's hit on Create. Let's see what happens.
It creates a new release.
You can click on this
to go ahead onto the release itself.
And you get kind of a good representation,
a visual diagram of what's happening right now.
You have manually triggered this pipeline.
It is taking the artifact of your web app
and now it is deploying onto the test environment.
And you can see your task is in progress.
You just have one task basically
that's part of a job.
Give it and deploy the application on the Azure Web App.
And as expected, there is a failure.
You can go onto the logs here
to understand what exactly the failure is about.
It's saying that no package has been found
with the specified pattern.
Here the ZIP file.
This task in your pipeline
is expecting a zipped version of your build
so that it can deploy it onto the Azure Web App.
In the other tab,
if I go onto my pipelines, my build pipeline,
let me click on Edit, if I scroll down,
we don't have that zipped argument,
which is present but remember,
automatically it is marked as true.
If you go onto the .NET Core CLI task,
I'm talking about the argument
of zip after publish.
So by default, this is marked as true.
Here even if I put that input in place,
this pipeline is still going to fail.
So let's try to ensure
that everything works as desired
in our next chapter.
In this chapter, I just wanna introduce
how do you create a release pipeline.

--- Resolving our issue ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in the prior chapter,
our release pipeline did not work
because it was not able to locate the files
that had to be taken over
and deployed onto the Azure Web App.
And here it's basically trying to find for a zip file.
So again, just as a recap,
one of the ways in which the deployment of the build
can be done,
this is when it comes onto a .NET-based application,
is to take the build of all of the files
have it has a zip file
and then send it across onto the a Azure Web App.
Again, what do we mean by this?
So if you go onto to Visual Studio, again, just has a recap.
Let me create a new published profile onto a folder.
It publishes the contents onto
bin release, net 6.0, publish.
I'll click on finish.
Let me do a publish using this profile.
So it's building now my application,
my .NET project and publishing it onto folder.
Let me open up the target location.
So these are all the files that need to be deployed
onto the target environment
whether it be a virtual machine and Azure Web App.
One of the features that is available when it comes
onto publishing a .NET-based application,
a web-based application,
is you can have all of these contents
as a zip file, sent across onto the target environment.
Any target environment would install the build accordingly.
Basically, unzip all the contents
and have all of these files in place.
Just another way
in which you can actually deploy your content.
I'm just trying to make all of this very well aware
because you have to understand what is the build
that needs to be carried forward from your build environment
onto your release environment.
So coming back onto our problem,
we do know that in our pipeline,
this particular task is going to publish
the build of our project
and it's gonna be a zip file.
We know that.
Let me go ahead and decide this for the moment.
All of these stars are being done on an agent machine.
This is for the build.
This is a Microsoft hosted agent.
And remember, once this entire pipeline is complete
this agent is destroyed.
The build is also no longer in place.
Now when we come onto our release pipeline,
this also runs on an agent
because we need, as I said, some sort of compute environment
to go ahead and execute the commands
to release our application.
Now this is a fresh new machine.
This machine has no knowledge.
It does not have the content of the build environment.
Hence, we need some way to transfer the build
from our build environment onto this release environment.
We can make use of a task now in a pipeline
that is known as a publish artifact task.
If we want to transfer something from the build pipeline
onto the release pipeline,
we can go ahead and add this publish task.
I'm gonna add the publish task here
In the publish task,
so the name of the task is publish pipeline artifact.
In terms of the input I'm telling,
what do I want to copy into the pipeline
so that it can be available onto our release pipeline.
Well, all of our build in the output here as part
of publish, we're seeing
please output everything
onto the build.artifact staging directory.
And we already know that this variable maps onto a path
on the agent machine, that's gonna be destroyed
once the build is complete.
We are telling that please take all of that content
and create an artifact with this name.
You can put any name for the artifact
and make it available onto the pipeline as a whole.
So even if the agent is destroyed,
this DevOps pipeline runs on the cloud.
It'll be having its own sort of storage.
So take that build, which we have in our staging directory
copy it onto the pipeline so that it can be made available
onto the next stage, our release pipeline.
Before I do a save because when I do a save,
it's gonna run this build pipeline,
let me do one more thing.
When it comes onto the pipeline itself,
I'm gonna click on this stage now.
This particular stage.
I'm gonna edit my pipeline.
There is this continuous deployment trigger here.
Let me go onto this and let me enable this
and click on save.
By doing this now,
any change that is made onto a build pipeline.
So when the build pipeline is triggered, it'll go ahead
and automatically trigger our release pipeline.
In order for this to be achieved
you have to ensure that you enable this trigger
when it comes onto your artifact.
This trigger is the continuous deployment trigger.
Once you have this in place
I'll go over onto the build pipeline.
It'll be click on save.
I'll say edit task
to publish artifacts
and click on save.
It should now trigger our build pipeline.
Here, let me go onto the releases.
We can see our web deployment pipeline.
We can see a release.
Let's wait until the build is complete.
Once a build is complete so we can see the job is complete.
If I go over on releases
you can see a new release has been triggered.
You can go onto it.
Let's wait for this to be in place.
Meanwhile, let me go back onto my pipeline.
You can see one item has actually been published here.
If I go and click on this
we can see the name of the artifact that we had given
and we can see our zip file in place.
This is nothing but all of these contents
which has been built into a zip file that can be sent
onto the Azure Web App service
and the Azure Web App service can actually go
and unzip all the contents
and basically install your application.
I have the application in place, the build in place.
So if you wanna confirm your artifacts,
you can go over onto here and you can just go onto your job
make sure that everything is as it should be.
Going onto the release pipeline,
you now see that it is going ahead
with the deployment of the zip contents now.
It has been taken from this particular stage,
the artifact stage
it is being deployed onto the Azure Web App.
Remember the continuous deployment trigger
that is very important when it comes onto your pipeline.
And once this is complete,
if you refresh the URL for your website
you can see your application in place.
So in this chapter, we have now ensured
that the build pipeline transfers the zip contents
of our build onto release pipeline.
And the release pipeline now has the ability with the help
of the task to publish our content onto the Azure Web App.
If I just click on edit pipeline again
just as a quick revision, we know about the artifact, right?
It takes the build and it's going on to a stage.
In this stage, we have defined, again, a job.
These are similar to jobs and tasks in the build pipeline.
Only thing we are doing this via an interface.
All of this is again running on an agent machine
because at in the end, you need commands that need to be run
for the deployment process.
You have these predefined tasks that are only available
as part of Azure DevOps.
So there is a task to deploy content onto an Azure Web App.
That is a definition of this particular task.
And we have configured this task accordingly.
So in this chapter
we have complete one release of our application.

--- Multiple stages in the pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in our prior chapter,
we are done the release of our application
with the help of pipelines.
In the chapter,
let's add an additional stage onto our pipeline.
I told you that when it comes onto the deployment
of an application,
it could first be done onto a testing environment
wherein testing could be conducted
then onto a steering environment
and then probably onto production.
Let simulate the case
where we want to deploy the application
on both a test and a staging environment
at the same time.
For this, we need to have our staging environment in place.
Let me create another Azure Web App
for this particular purpose.
It can be in the same location,
part of the same App Service plan.
Let me hit on create, I'll choose the Web App,
choose the resource group.
Just give a name of Web App staging if it is available.
So it's not, let me just try a different name, that's fine.
And ensure the runtime stack is the same.
Scroll down.
Choose the not your application.
Scroll down.
It's gonna use the same App Service plan,
so I'll keep it as it is.
Go onto deployment, go onto monitoring,
and again just disable application insights,
go onto view and create and hit on the create option.
We are now creating another environment
for the deployment of our application.
We then have to ensure that we have another stage
in our pipeline that would deploy the application
onto this particular Azure Web App.
So let's wait till this is complete.
Once the deployment is complete,
I'll go ahead onto the resource.
And here again, let me take the URL of the Web App.
Just to confirm, go on to a new tab.
And again, I should be having the default Web App in place.
So in one of our Web Apps, we have application version 10.
And in this Web App, that's Web App staging,
we just have the default page in place.
Let me go over onto my release pipeline.
I'll go on all pipelines.
I'll go on to Web App deployment,
and let me click on the edit button.
With the edit button in place, we can go it and make changes
onto the pipeline.
Here now, I can go onto this particular stage
and click on the plus add button here
to add another stage.
I'll again choose an empty job.
I'll say deploy two staging environment.
Let me click on the save option.
We now have two stages in place.
So what's gonna happen here is
your build is gonna be taken from the artifact,
it'll first be deployed onto the test environment,
once it is complete,
it'll go and deploy onto the staging environment.
I need to go it onto the job
and again add the task of Azure Web App.
So I'll choose the deployment, click on this.
Choose my available service connections.
Now, I don't need to perform authorization
because the service connection is already in place.
Again, Web App on Windows, choose the app name.
Now, just come back.
I realized that I did not put the proper name
of our web staging app here.
Now, once we have all of this in place,
and once you click on save,
let's go over onto as Azure Repos.
Let me make a change onto my pages.
I'll go onto the index page.
I'd only made a change before.
Let me click on edit.
In terms of the application output, application version 12.
I'll hit on commit.
I'll say application version 12, choose commit here.
This should now go ahead
and first trigger our build pipeline.
And then our build pipeline
should trigger our release pipeline.
Hence, we are testing out now the full flow
wherein we make a change, a commit onto the code repository
that will trigger our build pipeline,
and the build pipeline should trigger our release pipeline.
Once a build pipeline is complete,
if I go onto my releases, I can see a new release in place.
Again, don't worry about the previous release,
I'd actually gone it and create a release here.
Let's focus on release four.
It's now gonna take the bill or the artifact.
It is first going deployed onto our test environment.
Once this is complete,
it'll deploy it onto our staging environment.
So once a deployment onto the test environment is complete,
you can see now it is going ahead
and gonna perform a deploy onto the staging environment.
If I go onto the phone page for our first Web App
which signifies our test environment,
I can see application version 12.
Let the deployment complete onto the staging environment.
And once the deployment the staging environment
is also complete,
if I go over onto our staging website,
and if I refresh the page, I can see application version 12.
So this chapter, we have seen
how we can have multiple stages in our pipeline
and how our application can be delivered
onto these multiple stages.

--- Approvals and gates ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapter,
we had seen how we could have
the deployment of an application onto multiple stages,
one was on a test environment stage
and the other was on a staging environment.
Now, obviously, in a real time scenario,
you will not have these deployments done
one after the other immediately.
First, the deployment would be done
onto a test environment,
then testing would be conducted
for, let's say, two to three days.
It depends upon the test scenarios.
And once testing is complete,
once an approval is sought from the test team,
then it could probably move over
onto the staging environment.
So there is some sort of delay between the deployment,
between both of these stages.
In our particular case now,
when the deployment was done,
immediately after the deployment onto the test environment,
it deployed the artifact onto the staging environment.
So we need to have some sort of pause in between
to signify that, please wait,
let testing be conducted, you know,
and then go ahead on to the next stage.
We can actually have different sort of measures in place.
We can use something known as approval and gates
to manage the transition between different stages.
We have something known as a pre-deployment approval
wherein a user needs to validate the change request
so that deployment can be done onto a particular stage.
For example,
here, the deployment onto the test environment itself.
You can have a pre-deployment approval
wherein someone needs to approve
the deployment of the artifact
onto this particular stage.
You can also have a post-deployment approval.
This could be attached onto the end of the deploy
on a test environment stage.
Here, a user needs to sign up.
So once testing is complete,
then a user can approve the movement of the artifact
from this stage onto the next.
So you can have approvals in place
to signify the transition of artifacts
on stage to stage.
Apart from this, you can also make use of gates.
See, these are all manual approaches.
But if you want to have sort of an automate approach,
you can make use of gates.
For example, let's say a user wants to ensure
that no work items are active for a particular build.
See what happens to that in Azure Boards?
Remember, you'll have tasks in place.
Those tasks will correlate onto a developer,
making a code change onto a GIT repository.
That change will be committed.
It will trigger a build,
and the build will trigger a release.
Now, let's say that the build
has been deployed onto the test environment
and you have bugs that have been found out,
and they've been registered in Azure Boards.
Now, before the build can go onto the next stage,
you wanna ensure that all of those bugs,
those work items in Azure Boards are closed.
Only then it should move onto the next stage.
This is an automated approach
instead of someone giving an approval,
as your pipelines can actually quickly go ahead
and see if those work items are opened or closed.
If they are closed,
then the build can move on to the next stage.
Like pre-deployment gates,
you also have post-deployment gates.
Again, this is returning onto issues.
This could be issues in your production-based environment.
So you might have,
let's say, alerts triggered in the Azure Monitor service,
and if alerts are in place,
then build should not be moved on to the next stage.
Now, obviously in the subsequent chapter,
we are gonna look at examples on approvals and gates,
in this chapter,
just wanna give kind of an introduction
on to this concept of having approvals and gates
for your pipelines.

--- Lab - Release pipelines - Approvals ---

(groovy music)
-: So in this chapter,
I want to go through a very simple example
when it comes onto approvals for a particular pipeline.
Go onto web app deployment and click on Edit.
For the first stage,
we have something known as pre-deployment conditions,
let me click on this.
In terms of the trigger,
it's after the release of the artifact
onto the artifact stage.
If I scroll down,
we have something known as pre-deployment approvals,
let me enable this.
We can search for users.
I'll search for TOC user 1.
This is the additional user I have
as part of my DevOps project.
We have something known as a timeout
that is also very important.
See here, if I, for example,
give a duration of, let's say two hours,
so this user has two hours
in order to go ahead and approve the deployment
of the artifact onto this particular stage.
Now, this is required.
If the user does not do the approval
within this particular timeframe,
then the deployment will not be carried over onto the stage
if the time duration exceeds two hours,
so there's a timeout period as well.
Let me go ahead and click on Save here.
I'll hit on, OK.
Let me close this.
Go onto my repos.
Let me make a change again.
Go onto the pages, onto the index page,
make a change here.
Let's copy this.
Hit on Commit.
Hit on Commit here.
This should, again, trigger our build pipeline.
And then subsequently,
it should trigger our release pipeline.
Let's come back when it goes ahead and triggers
our release pipeline.
Now in my job, this is for my build pipeline,
if I go onto the job itself,
I've been waiting for around six minutes
and it's still trying to acquire an agent from the cloud,
so I'm not sure what's the issue.
What I'll do is let me go ahead
and cancel this particular build.
Let me go back onto web app,
just to make sure that it is canceled.
Yes, it is canceled.
Let me run the pipeline again,
'cause if I go onto my runs,
I don't have any other run in progress,
so it should not idly be waiting for an agent
to complete the build.
Let me run the pipeline again.
Let me go over onto the job.
So now I can see it has gone ahead and initialized the job.
So I mean, at that point in time, maybe it was stuck,
it was trying to get the agent to run the particular job,
so it was not working.
Sometimes you can come across these issues.
It's good that I came across this issue while recording
so that I can let y'all know
that if you'll come across the same issue,
just go ahead and cancel your build and run the build again.
Again, this should be taking whatever changes we've made
onto the main branch of our Git repository.
Now, let me wait and come back
till I have my release in place.
Once the build pipeline is complete,
if I go onto my web app deployment,
it has create a new release.
But here now, if you hover over the first stage,
it's saying the deployment on the test environment,
approval is pending for TOC user 1.
If you click on release five,
you can see a pending approval is required.
Now, in the Edge browser,
I have logged into Azure DevOps as TOC user 1.
Let me go over onto the pipelines.
I'll go onto releases.
Let me click on release five here.
Close this.
Let me approve the change,
I'll click on Approve.
Just give a comment, hit on Approve here.
This is done.
If I go back, now it should continue
with the deployment of the build onto the test environment
and onto the staging environment.
So in the chapter, I wanna show you
how you can have approvals in place
when it comes onto your release pipeline.

--- Lab - Azure pipelines - Gates - Query work items ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the last chapter,
when it came on to our pipeline,
we had seen how we could have approvals in place.
This is like a manual step
when you want the build to be taken forward
from one stage or to the other.
We also have this provision
of having gates in place,
which is like an automated way
of having checks in place
before the build can move from one stage onto the other.
As an example, in this particular chapter,
we are gonna look at a gate
that does a continuous check
on the work items that are in Azure Boards.
I'm gonna edit my pipeline first.
I'll go on the pre-deployment conditions.
Let me turn off the pre-deployment approvals
because we're gonna be looking at gates now.
Before I go into having or enabling a gate
for a particular stage,
if I go on to Azure Boards,
these are the work items that I have in place.
There are some tasks which are in the new state
and one which is in the active state.
If I go on to my queries,
and let me create a query,
let me create a new query here.
For the work item type,
I will choose it as a task.
In terms of the state,
I want to see all of the tasks,
which are not in the closed state.
Let me run this query.
I have all of theses tasks.
So there are five tasks,
which are currently not in the closed state.
Let me save this query.
I'm gonna save this in shared queries.
I'll say task not closed.
And hit on OK.
So let's take the situation
wherein a build should only move
from one stage onto the other
if there are no open tasks
or open work items in Azure Boards.
Now, in terms of work items,
you can also create bugs.
You can have specific kind of tasks,
and you can have a query
that only targets a particular set of work items.
Since in our case these are the only tasks
that I have as work items,
I'm creating a very simple query
that checks for the state of my existing task.
Obviously, for a particular build,
that's related to a particular commit.
It would only be related probably onto a few work items.
But in this case, just trying to give a very simple example.
So I have a query now that is saved onto shared queries
that looks at the state of the task.
If they are not closed,
that means it returns a result.
Going back on to my pipeline.
I'm gonna add a post-deployment condition.
In the post-deployment condition,
yes, I can have approvals in place
but let me enable gates.
In gates, we can add different types of checks.
We could check for Azure policy.
We could invoke an Azure function.
We could invoke a REST API.
We could query Azure Monitor alerts.
We could query work items
or we could have the SonarCloud quality gate check in place.
For this particular lab,
let me go ahead and choose to query work items.
Here, in terms of the delay before evaluation,
I'm gonna put as one minute.
So this is the initial evaluation
for this particular gate.
I'll scroll down.
For the query work items,
I can select from my shared queries.
I'm gonna choose task not closed.
So this is taking the queries from the shared queries.
That's why I saved that particular query
in the shared queries folder.
In terms of the upper threshold,
I am mentioning this as zero.
That means as a post-deployment gate,
if the number of tasks returned by this query
is zero, that means there are no tasks
that actually match this particular query,
then the build should go onto the next stage
but in our case, remember that this is going
to fail because we do have tasks
that are matching this particular query.
We basically have five tasks in place.
If I go on to the evaluation options here.
See, this is a continuous evaluation.
It is going to continuously evaluate this particular gate
because this is an automate approach,
a continuous approach.
We need to mention what is the evaluation,
the re-evaluation of the gates.
I'm gonna mention the minimum time of five minutes.
So during the first check,
if Azure DevOps finds out
that the query does have tasks in place,
that means it should not take the build
onto the next stage,
it will wait for five minutes
and try the query again.
So I'll leave it as five minutes
and let me go ahead and click on Save.
We have other options in place as well
in terms of gates and approvals.
So we have now our gate in place.
And this gate has been attached
as a post-deployment condition.
Now, before I actually have a release in place,
I have to do one more thing.
Let me go on to my queries.
Here in terms of the shared queries,
I need to go on to security.
Here I need to search for the project name
and something known as the build service.
So you'll be having this particular identity,
which is a build service
and pre-appended to this will be the name
of your project.
The name of my DevOps project is Agile Project.
That's why I have an identity known
as the Agile Project Build Service.
I need to choose this
and give read permission onto to allow.
This should also be inherited now
by the task not closed query.
I can see that the agile project build service
has the permission of read.
This is required.
Once I have this in place,
I could go ahead
and just create a release or I can make a commit change
onto the repository
so that it could trigger this particular release.
Just to make things a little bit simpler,
let me go ahead and directly create a release based
on my previous build.
I'll just choose Create
'cause here we just want to see
how does it work when it comes onto a gate.
Remember, there is no pre-deployment condition.
It should now go ahead and deploy onto the test environment
but we do have a gate here,
a post-deployment gate.
Let's wait just for a minute or two.
So we can see a progress in place
when it comes onto the deployment onto the test environment.
This deployment is going to complete.
But before the deployment onto the staging environment,
this gate is going to be reviewed
on a continuous basis.
Now, once the deployment onto the test environment
is complete, we can see now it is processing the gate.
We can click on the evaluating gates here.
It is querying for the work item.
So the first evaluation fail.
Let's wait for the next evaluation.
The next evaluation is gonna happen after five minutes.
So this release pipeline is gonna run the query.
Now, when you run the query,
obviously, if we go on to the queries,
we know that if I go onto task not closed,
we have five tasks in place
that it's actually matching this particular query.
And we had put a threshold of zero.
Only if there are no tasks that match this query,
then go ahead and take the build
onto the next stage.
That's why this particular evaluation is failing.
Let me just wait for five minutes
to see if the evaluation fails here
in the next five minutes.
So after five minutes,
we can clearly see that the gate did fail again
during the next evaluation.
So what Azure DevOps is doing,
I said on a continual basis,
it is going ahead and running the query
and looking at the results.
Hence it is failing.
So it is not going ahead
and taking the build and publishing it
onto the next stage.
What I'll do now,
I'll go on to each and every task here.
Let me see if I can change the state.
I'll change it onto Close, click on Save.
Go onto the next one, change the state.
So let's assume that all of the tasks have been completed.
Click on Save and go on to the last one.
Now let me run the query again
and there are no results that match this query.
Now, my assumption is since we don't have any task
that matches this particular query,
during the next evaluation of the gate,
it should actually pass
and the build should move over onto the next stage.
Now after five minutes,
I can see that the gate has passed.
If I close this,
it should now do the deployment
of the build onto the next stage.
You can see it has gone into progress.
This kind of an automate approach
and a continuous approach based
on certain conditions
in order to move the build
from one stage onto the other.

--- Lab - Azure pipelines - Gates - Azure Monitor alerts ---

(music)
-: Now in the prior chapter,
I had shown an example
of having a gate in place
based on querying of the work items in as Azure boards.
In the chapter, I wanna show the gate
its kind of a similar concept,
but this time it can actually query for your alerts
in the Azure monitoring service.
Remember that we do have the monitoring service
that is available on the Azure platform
wherein you can look at your activity log,
your metrics, et cetera
and you can also define alerts.
You might want to have an alert in place
if, let's say the CPU threshold of an Azure virtual machine
that is hosting your application goes beyond
a particular threshold.
So you can have alerts in place when it comes onto
your actual resources as part of your Azure account.
Let's now create an alert based on our existing resources.
So we have our two Azure Web apps in place
that are part of our release pipeline.
If I go on all resources,
just open the link in a new tab
just to refresh our memory.
When it comes onto our test environment,
we are deploying our build here
and when it comes onto our steering environment,
we are deploying the build here.
Let's create an alert based on this Azure web app
that is part of our test environment.
In alerts, let me create an alert rule.
I'll filter on all resources,
scroll down, I'll choose this web app,
click on done, go onto next.
In the condition, let me filter on metrics,
now this has an example
because I want the alert to be triggered.
I'll choose the average memory working set
when it comes onto my signal.
So I can see there's always some values
when it comes onto the metric.
I'll scroll down,
I'll say even the average threshold value goes
beyond one byte
and definitely this is gonna trigger and alert.
When it comes onto the granularity,
I'll choose one minute,
I'll click on done.
I said I just wanna go ahead
and trigger this alert.
Onto actions, I won't create any actions in details,
and go ahead and say web app alert
test environment.
Let me go on tax,
let me go on review and create
and let me go ahead and hit on create.
Now it takes some time for the alert to be in place
and for the alert to get generated.
So let me just wait for around five minutes,
to see if we do get an alert in place.
After waiting for a few minutes,
let me hit on refresh to see
if I do have the alert in place.
And now I can see that the alert was indeed fired.
So the alert condition is fired.
Now let me go onto my release pipeline.
Let me edit the pipeline.
Let me go over onto the post-deployment conditions again.
In terms of the gates,
let me delete the one which has the query work items,
and let me add a gate now when it comes
on to querying a Azure multi alerts.
I'll scroll down,
choose my subscription,
choose my resource group.
If I go onto advance in terms of the filter type,
we can filter by the alert rule
and I can choose my alert rule.
I'll choose that web app alert.
Scroll down, the time range is four the past hour.
If the alert condition is fired,
again then this gate will not allow the bill to move
from one stage onto the other.
So can you just imagine this scenario
wherein the build was published onto an Azure web app
in the test environment.
Now, because of this deployment
and because let's say users you know,
your test users are testing the application
and now the alerts,
which you know in Azure monitor could have been defined
for this test environment for the web app.
It has been fired,
it has been triggered.
That means there is some issue
with the code that could be let's say,
increasing the usage of the application
on the underlying infrastructure, it has triggered alert.
Hence, you might want to ensure
that this issue is first rectified
and then the alert basically is changed,
the status has changed,
before the bill can move onto the next environment.
Keeping all of this as it is, it's fine.
We go onto the evaluation options,
let me make sure it's five minutes.
This is also fine.
And then let me go ahead and click on save.
Now again, just for the benefit
of seeing this gate in action,
let me go ahead and again directly create a release
or go onto release seven.
It should go and deploy onto our test environment first
and then it should go onto gate.
While the deployment onto the test environment is complete,
we can see it is now processing the gates.
So it's gonna query for the Azure Monitor alerts.
Again, let me just wait for five minutes
just to ensure that this gate does not pass
because it should not.
We have a gate wherein a Azure DevOps
is going to check the status of the alert,
and if it has been fired,
that means an issue is present.
That issue needs to be resolved
before the build can move onto the next stage.
So after five minutes when I come back,
I can see that indeed the gate has failed.
Now what I'll do, I'll go onto the alert here.
Let me change the user response.
I'm gonna mark this as closed.
That means we have closed this particular issue.
And now during the next evaluation
you can see that it has indeed passed.
If I closed this, you can see the deployment
onto the next stage.
So in this chapter, wanna kind of show you,
how you can have basically a deployment gate based
on Azure Monitor alerts.

--- Lab - Azure pipelines - Gates - Azure Policies ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter
I want to give another example when it comes on to gates.
This time when it comes on to compliance
with the Azure Policy service.
You can use the Azure Policy service
as part of your Azure account,
to actually have some governance in place.
So, if you want to measure the non-compliance of resources
against some particular definitions,
you know, some particular rules,
you can use the Azure Policy service.
As a simple example,
let me go ahead and actually use the Azure Policy service.
Before that, if I go onto all resources,
so, I have this DevOps GRP resource group in place.
I don't have a virtual network, as such,
within this particular resource group.
Let me go ahead and create a resource.
(keyboard clacking)
I'll choose the service of the virtual network.
I'll choose this.
Hit on create.
Choose my DevOps GRP resource group.
(keyboard clacking)
Give a network name in IP addresses.
Just leave everything as it is.
Go into security, go on tax, go onto review and create.
Let me go ahead and hit on create.
Let me go ahead and deploy the virtual network.
This will just take a minute or two.
Once the deployment is complete,
I'll go ahead onto resource,
so we have the virtual network in place.
Now, let me go on to the Policy service.
I'll go on to definitions.
I'll just go ahead and hide this.
I wanna search for a definition of allowed,
basically, resource types.
I wanna choose actually the not allowed resource types.
I'll click on this.
Let me assign this policy definition.
In terms of the scope, I'm gonna choose my subscription,
and choose a resource group.
I'll hit on select.
I'll go on to next.
In terms of the not allowed resource type
I want to search for virtual network.
I need to scroll down 'cause I need to search for the type.
It should be under microsoft.network.
And if I scroll down, virtual networks.
Let me go onto next and create,
or basically, assign this policy.
This policy now means
that we should not be deploying any virtual networks
within our DevOps GRP resource group.
It's not gonna delete my existing virtual network,
but it will definitely come up as a non-compliance.
If I go onto the overview, if I scroll down,
currently in terms of the not allowed resource type,
it's showing as compliant.
And, that's because it actually takes time
for the policy to take effect.
Sometimes it takes around 10 minutes, 15 minutes.
It could take up to half an hour
for the policy to take effect.
So, when we come back after some time,
once the compliance state has been refreshed,
when it comes onto this particular assignment.
So, now after some time when I come back,
if I refresh the overview when it comes onto Azure Policy,
there is now a non-compliance when it comes onto the policy.
And this is because of the Azure virtual network
that we have created as part of this resource group.
Now, let me go onto one of my existing pipelines.
Let me go onto the post-deployment condition.
In terms of the gates, let me go ahead and add a gate.
This time for checking the Azure Policy compliance.
I'll scroll down, I'll choose my subscription,
choose the resource group, and that's it.
In evaluation options, right?
This is fine, five minutes is fine.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
And, then, let me go ahead and create a release.
So, it'll complete the deployment onto the test environment.
And, when it comes on to the gates,
it's gonna evaluate the Azure Policy.
Now, since there is already a non-compliance
because we have a virtual network,
as part of that resource group,
that's triggering that non-compliance,
it will not go ahead and proceed the deployment
onto the next stage.
Only if there is a complete compliance,
where it comes onto that as your policy,
only then will the gate pass,
and the deployment move onto the next stage.
The deployment onto the test environment is complete.
It is now going ahead with the processing of the gates.
If I go onto the evaluation of the gates,
the first evaluation didn't go through.
So, let's wait for another five minutes
for the next evaluation.
So, after some time when I come back,
I can see the next evaluation also failed.
Now, what I'll do is,
let me go onto the virtual network resource that we created,
and I will delete this virtual network.
This will ensure that we now have full compliance
when it comes onto that particular policy.
Again, this will take time.
Let's wait till we have a successful policy compliance.
And, hopefully at that point in time
the gate should also go through.
I'll just go onto the policy service, onto the overview,
and wait to see if the compliance state changes.
Now, after some time, when I come back,
I can see the gate is now a success.
And that's because when you refresh the page,
when it comes onto Azure Policy,
you will see, now, a complete compliance,
even with that particular policy.
So, in this chapter, I wanna show you
how you can have a gate in place
that checks the compliance of Azure Policy.
And if it is compliant,
it will go ahead with the deployment.

--- Azure Releases - Manual Intervention ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through a manual intervention process
that you can place as part of your release pipeline.
I'm not talking about a manual approval,
but let's say there's a list of steps
or something that needs to be done manually
before a particular release pipeline,
you can add a manual intervention.
Now, how do we do this?
For one of my release pipelines that I have,
let me click on edit pipeline.
First of all, let me ensure that I don't have
any sort of gates in place.
I'll click on save.
Now, let me go on to a stage that I have here.
Currently, this particular task of deployment
of the Azure Web App is running on an agent.
For this deployment on to the test environment,
I can also add something known has an Agentless Job
that does not need to run on any sort of agent.
Let me drag this on top to run just before the agent job
and we can add now task onto this agentless job.
We can have a delay, we can have various things in place.
This (indistinct) has a manual intervention task.
Let me add this.
I'll go on to the task
and we can just have some instructions in place.
(keyboard clacking)
Please ensure the team is
(keyboard clacking)
ready for deployment,
and let me assign this on to DOC user one.
This is like now a manual intervention
that needs to be in place before the bill
can go onto this agent job.
Let me click on save.
Again, just for the sake of simplicity,
let me create release here itself.
I'll hit on create.
We now have release eight in place.
It's now waiting for manual intervention.
So this is not an approval.
This is something that needs to be done manually
before the bill can go onto this particular stage.
As DOC user one, let me go onto releases.
I'll go on to release eight.
Just hide this.
In terms of the manual intervention,
I'll click on resume.
(keyboard clacking)
Just give a comment and click on resume.
It should now go on to the deployment
onto the various stages.
So in this chapter, just wanna kind of go
through this manual intervention step
or the task that you can put as part of your pipeline.

--- Lab - Deployment Groups - Setup ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through deployment groups.
Earlier on, we had seen
how we could deploy a web application,
the build of a web application
onto the Azure Web App service.
Now, it's actually quite simple
to go ahead and deploy an application
onto the Azure Web App service.
But let's say that your web application needs
to be deployed on a set of Azure virtual machines
or even machines in your on-premises data center.
For virtual machines, you have to put a lot more effort
when it comes onto the deployment of the web application.
Well, Azure DevOps actually makes this
a little bit more simpler.
What you can do is you can make your target virtual machines
part of a deployment group.
And then you can tell your release pipeline
please deploy my application onto the deployment group
and then the application will be deployed
onto the virtual machines
that are part of this deployment group.
Let's look at an example
on the implementation of deployment groups.
The first thing you have to do
is to deploy Azure virtual machines
that are gonna be part of this deployment group.
Here in all resources, I'm gonna choose Create.
I'll choose Windows Server 2019 Datacenter.
So we'll deploy it on a set of Windows-based servers.
For the purpose of the virtual machines,
I'll deploy them onto a separate resource group.
Please note that this is not actually required.
You can actually make them part of any resource group
but then what I wanna do is after this exercise is over,
I want to delete the virtual machines
and hence, I can just go ahead
and delete the resource group.
That's why I'm making the machines part
of a new resource group.
I'll hit on OK.
I'll scroll down.
Just give a virtual machine name.
Choose my location.
Don't need any availability.
Leave all of this as it is.
Let's specify a username
and a password.
Go on to next for the disks,
leave it as it is.
Go on to networking.
It'll create a new virtual network
and it will have a public IP address.
Leave everything as it is.
Go on to management, go onto advanced,
tags, review and create.
And lemme go ahead and hit on Create.
Let's wait till this has done.
We'll then deploy another virtual machine
onto the same virtual network.
Now, since I'm gonna be using a release pipeline
to deploy a web application
that we already have, a .NET-based web application,
onto these machines,
we have to ensure that we install
the right tools on this machine
for hosting our application.
Hence, we need to have Internet Information Services
as a web server.
And we should be having the target framework
of .NET 6.0 also installed on these machines.
Let's come back once we have the first machine in place.
Once we have the first target machine in place,
in all resources in another tab,
let me go ahead and hit on Create again.
I'll choose Windows Server 2019 Datacenter.
I'll choose my resource group, which is deploy GRP.
I'll scroll down.
Give another virtual machine name.
Again, North Europe.
I don't need any infrastructure availability.
Again specify the details
for the machine.
We're gonna log into the machine later on.
Go next on to the disk onto networking.
Again, it's gonna be part of a virtual network.
Advanced, review and create.
Let me go ahead and hit on Create.
On the first VM,
let me go on to the resource.
Quickly let me go on to networking
and add a network security group rule
to allow traffic on port 80
because we're gonna have a web application running
on this virtual machine.
Let me click on Add.
While this is being done,
go onto to the overview
and let me connect via RDP onto this machine.
I'll download the RDP file.
Click on it, so let's connect onto the machine.
So it's waiting to log into the machine.
Going on to the second tab,
just waiting for target VM two to also be in place,
then we can log into this machine as well.
Once you have target VM two in place,
I'll go on to the resource.
Let me connect via RDP.
Download the RDP file and let me connect.
While we are connecting,
I'll go back on to target VM one.
Let me go on to local server
and just turn off IE Enhanced Security Configuration.
Then I'll go on to the dashboard.
I'll click on add roles and features.
Go on to next.
Just wanna install the Internet Information Services role,
the web server role on this machine.
Click on Add Features.
Go on to Next.
And just click on Install.
On target VM two, I'll do the same thing.
On to local server.
On to IE Enhanced Security Configuration.
I'll turn this off.
Go on to the dashboard.
Add roles and features.
Go on to next, install Internet Information Services
on this machine as well.
Add features, next.
Next.
And then finally, hit on Install.
Just going back on to target VM one,
I'll wait for this to complete.
Just open up Internet Explorer.
I wanna go ahead and download .NET 6.0.
I'll just search for .NET download.
I'll click on the link.
I'll go on to all .NET 6.0 downloads.
I'm gonna choose the hosting bundle.
I'll click on Run.
This should be more than sufficient enough
to host our ASP.NET application.
It's a very simple installation.
I'll copy the same link.
I'll go on to target VM two.
Open up Internet Explorer
'cause I need to install it here as well.
On target VM one,
I can see .NET is installed
and Internet Information Services is also installed.
On target VM two,
yes, Internet Information Services is installed.
I'll just click to download .NET 6.0.
Click on Run.
Let me click on Install.
So on both machines now,
we have Internet Information Services
running as a web server
and we have the hosting bundle also in place.
In the next chapter,
we are now gonna look at the implementation
of deployment groups.
In this particular chapter, we have set everything up.
Now, before I forget, let me go on to the Networking tab
when it comes onto target VM two
because I need to add the inbound port rule
for port 80 here as well.
I'll choose HTTP.
Scroll down.
Click on Add.
And everything is set up.
Now let's move on to the next chapter
where we have the implementation of deployment groups.

--- Lab - Deployment Groups - Implementation ---

(introduction music)
-: Now in the prior chapter, we had set up our machines
for the use of deployment groups.
Now in this chapter, let's look at
the implementation of deployment groups.
Here in my Azure DevOps project, if you go onto pipelines,
you have something known as deployment groups.
Let's go onto it.
Here let me click to add a deployment group.
I'll just give a group name and hit on create.
We can now register our machines as part
of the deployment group.
We have to go it and copy this PowerShell script bar,
since our machines are based on windows.
I'll scroll down.
I'll choose option of use
a personal access token in the script for authentication.
I'll copy the script onto the clipboard.
I'll go on a Target VM1.
On this machine, let me go and open up PowerShell.
I'll open up PowerShell.
Here I'll right click on my mouse to paste the script.
I'll hit Enter on my keyboard
and I'll just hit on Enter again in the PowerShell window.
I just wanna ensure that it goes
onto the next step when it comes
on to this particular script.
So, now it is going at and connecting
onto our Azure DevOps server.
It's scanning for the tool capabilities.
Here in order to enable deployment group tags for the agent,
I'm pressing Enter for the default of no.
When it comes on to enabling the service ID
for the agent service, again, I press Enter for no.
Enter the user account for the service.
Again, I'll press Enter for whatever is a default.
And even to prevent the service,
I'll just press Enter for the default, right?
I'll go on to the next machine.
I'll do the same thing, Target VM2.
Just open up PowerShell.
I'll again paste in the script,
right click on the mouse, hit on Enter.
So again, it's going through the same process
when it comes onto this particular machine,
just accepting all the defaults again.
Once this is done, if you now go
on to the targets for this deployment group,
under healthy now you can see both of the machines in place.
Now, once we have the machines in place here,
they're part of our deployment group.
I'm gonna go onto my existing pipeline that I have.
Here I'm gonna add a new stage.
This stage is gonna be in parallel
onto our deployment stage, onto the test environment.
So, this is something that you can do.
You can deploy onto multiple stages at a time.
I'm gonna choose an empty job for now.
I'll just give a stage name.
Let me go ahead and hit on Save.
Once this is in place, I'll go onto the job, the task.
I'm gonna go onto this agent job.
I'm gonna remove it.
Here what we need to do is we need
to add now a deployment group job.
Let me go ahead and choose that.
I'm gonna now choose my deployment group.
We have two matching targets and you can deploy them
in parallel or one target at a time.
Here, in terms of the artifact,
it's the web app, the latest artifact.
That's from our build pipeline.
I'm gonna add a task here onto this deployment group job.
I'm gonna search for IS.
I'll just do an IS web app manage first.
I'll add this, and then an IS web app deploy.
I'll add this.
Here I just need to leave everything as it is.
Let me go ahead and just give the name
of the default website.
Onto the deployment, the same thing,
just need to give the website name
and everything else remains as it is.
Let me go ahead and click on Save.
Now, I'm gonna go ahead and manually create a release.
Let me hit on Create.
It has gone ahead and create a release.
I just have a manual intervention task.
Let me go ahead and click on Resume.
I'll resume it here.
And we have the deployment onto our test environment
and even the deployment onto the virtual machines.
You can see it over here.
If you click on this, you can see the deployment is
in progress onto both of these machines.
You can go onto the logs
and you will see whether the task has succeeded or failed.
So, let's come back once the deployment is complete.
After coming back, I can see the deployment has succeeded
onto our test environment.
That should go onto our staging environment
and I can see it's also, you know,
deployed onto our virtual machines.
I'll go on Target VM, I'll copy the public IP address.
Let me put in another tab
and I can see my application in place.
If you go on Target VM2, take the public IP address,
go onto a new tab, we can see our application here as well.
So this is the easiest way if you wanna go ahead
and deploy your applications on a set
of either Azure virtual machines
or this could be virtual machines
in your own premises data center environment.
Once it's done, I'll go back onto my pipeline.
I'll click on Edit.
I'll edit the pipeline.
I'll go onto the stage.
I'll delete the stage
because I'm gonna delete my virtual machines.
I don't want to keep them running
because there's a cost,
a source of it running those machines.
I'll go onto Azure.
I'll actually go onto the resource groups.
Let me go onto the Deploy GRP resource group
and I'll delete this.
Right, so this marks the end of the exercise
wherein we have looked at working with deployment groups.

--- Azure Web App - Azure SQL database ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now I wanna go ahead
and show you how we can deploy an application
that we've seen before in release pipelines.
But this time my .NET application will actually connect
onto an Azure SQL Database.
We are first going to manually create an Azure SQL Database
and we'll have some table and some data.
It's very simple.
This is the same application that I showcased
in my course when it came onto AZ-204.
So I'm sticking the same use case example.
It's an Azure web app,
so basically it's a .NET application,
.NET web application that can connect
onto an Azure SQL Database
and it basically looks
at the data and displays the data accordingly.
I wanna kind of incorporate this now
as part of a release pipeline.
Firstly, I want to show manually how do we get
this entire setup in place so
that we understand what we need to implement when it comes
onto our release pipeline.
The first thing is I want to launch my Azure SQL Database.
I want to have this in place.
Here, I'll go onto all resources.
Let me hit on create.
I'm gonna choose the service of the SQL Database.
I'll choose an existing resource group that I have.
I'll give a database name.
I'll create a new server.
You need to give a unique server name,
so this is available.
I'll choose my location.
I'll scroll down.
I'll use SQL authentication.
You need to specify by username and a password.
This will be used to connect onto your SQL Database.
I'll hit on okay.
I'll scroll down.
In terms of the workload, I'll choose development.
I'll click on configure database.
Here I'll choose the DTU-based purchasing model.
I'll choose basic
because this is the least cost option.
Hit on apply,
go onto networking.
I'll choose a public access point.
I'll allow Azure services
and resources to access the server.
I'll add my current client IP address
so that we can access the database.
Go onto security, edition setting, tags, review and create.
And let me go ahead and hit on create.
It'll take a couple minutes to have the database server
and database in place.
Once we have this in place,
we'll go ahead and add a table
and add some data onto the table itself.
So just showcasing the data.
Again, we've already seen this.
When it comes onto the AZ-204 course,
we have a simple products table
in which we have the columns of the product ID.
We have the product name and the quantity.
I have three insert statements,
I'm inserting into the table
where I have values when it comes onto the product ID
the product name, and the quantity.
Just waiting for the database to be in place.
Once the deployment is complete
I'll go ahead onto resource.
So I'll be directed onto the SQL Database.
Let me go onto the query editor here itself.
I'll enter the password for the user that I'd mentioned.
The password I'd mentioned was Azure@123
with a capital A.
I'll hit on okay, so that we can log in.
Let me go ahead and just hide this.
So currently I don't have any tables in place.
I'll take this entire set of statements.
I'll place it here.
I'll click on Run.
Now we should be having our products table in place.
You can go onto the text menu
and select the rows.
And down you will see the data in place.
Now, I've ensured it has a resource for this entire section.
So especially when it comes onto this particular app
I have the .NET Code in place.
It'll be a zip content.
You can just have to go ahead at and unzip it.
You'll have the SQL app folder in place.
You'll have the solution file when
it comes onto Visual Studio.
I'll just go ahead
onto Visual Studio and I'll open the project.
Just going onto that folder
choosing the solution file,
once we have the project open.
Now, if we're coming
from an AZ-104 background,
again we don't need to understand this code in detail.
All this code is doing, it's connecting onto the database.
Basically selecting the data
from the products table and displaying it accordingly.
Here the main thing is
to make things very simple,
you have to go onto the product service,
where do we get this?
In case, if you can't see these files
let me close everything.
Go onto the services folder, click on product service
and you'll see all of the details here.
We need to ensure that we add the right DB source
because you might have a different name when it comes
onto your database server, the DB user.
For me, it's SQL user.
What I'm connected, what I'm using when connecting
onto the Azure SQL Database.
What is my database password and what is a database itself.
This is my server.
I'll just copy it,
place it here, just save everything.
If I go ahead and just run this application locally,
so this is the basis of the application.
It just needs to patch the data
from the database and display the list of products.
Nothing too complicated.
Now I wanna ensure
that I create a build pipeline.
First of all, to build this application
will publish it onto a separate Git repository
in Azure Repos.
Then we'll create a build pipeline
and we'll create a release pipeline.
But in my release pipeline
will also include a task to
have the table and the data in place.
Instead of us manually creating the table
and inserting the data.
That's basically the script over here.
We're gonna have the script
as part of a task in our release pipeline.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter wherein
I just first wanna explain the setup that we have
and let's go ahead onto the next chapter
and see how to implement this
by the use of Azure pipelines.

--- Lab - Deploying the Azure Web App ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So in the last chapter,
I kind of showed you manually what I want to achieve.
I want my .NET web application actually to be hosted
on an Azure web app.
And the .NET application has the capability
of connecting onto an Azure SQL database.
That Azure SQL database has a table
that's known as products and has some product information.
Let's set up the build pipeline like we had done before
and the release pipeline
to take our application code, build it, and then release it
onto an Azure web app.
We've all we seen this before.
Let's go through the similar exercise
when it comes onto our application,
our SQL based application.
First in Azure,
let me create
a new Azure web app.
I'll choose the web app service.
I'll choose an existing resource group.
I'll try to give a unique name for the new web app.
I'll choose .NET 6
Choose my location.
I already have an app service plan,
so we can make it part of the same app service plan.
Go onto deployment,
go onto networking,
onto monitoring.
Again, disable application insights.
Let's do a review and a create.
And let's create our Azure web app.
Now at the same time,
then we go onto my project that I have, the SQL app.
Let's create a git repository.
Let's publish this onto Azure Repos.
I'll choose Azure DevOps here.
I'll choose my agile project.
It's gonna create a new repository, SQL app.
Let me do a create and a push.
So this is complete.
If I go on to Azure,
I can see that I also have my Azure web app in place.
Let me take the URL once it's loaded.
So taking the web app URL, going on to a new tab,
and again I should be having the default page
for the Azure web app.
Let me go onto my repos now.
I'll go onto SQL app
and let me set a build to create a build pipeline.
Again, ASP.NET go.
I'm gonna replace all of this with the code
we had seen earlier on.
So I'm using the VM image of Windows latest.
If I scroll down, again, then you get tool installer
and you get command, the .NET CLI to build my project
and then to publish the projects.
Your zip after publish is also marked as true.
And then I'm publishing my artifacts.
Let me name this as
SQL app.
I'm then publishing my build
onto the pipeline
so that it can be used by release pipelines.
Let me do a save and a run.
So it'll go ahead and run the build pipeline.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once the build is complete,
let me go onto my release pipelines.
I'm gonna create a new release pipeline.
I'll start with an empty job.
I'll just say deployment.
I'll just say deployed to test environment.
I'll click on save.
I'll add an artifact.
Again, a build artifact
in terms of the source now.
I'll choose SQL app.
Let me click on add here.
And we have the artifact in place.
I'll enable continuous deployment trigger.
Let me just click on save
for the task.
I'll add task.
We've already seen this before,
the web app deployment task.
So choose Azure web app,
click on add,
choose a task
choose my subscription,
web app on Windows.
In terms of the app name,
we go ahead and copy the app name.
Everything is fine.
Let me give a name
for the pipeline.
Click on save.
And once we have this in place,
let me create a release.
Let me hit on create.
Let's wait for the release pipeline
to deploy our application
onto the Azure web app.
Now my deployment is failing.
If I go onto the logs,
it's saying the resource does not exist.
It seems that the pipeline is taking time to understand
that we have a new Azure web app in place.
Let me go onto the pipeline again.
Let me edit the release pipeline.
I'll go onto the job.
Here, let me hit on refresh again.
I'll choose the app name.
Let's try to create a release again.
So now my deployment has succeeded.
If I go onto the URL
for the Azure web app,
I can now see my application in place.
My Azure web app is now connecting
onto my Azure SQL database
and fetching the information accordingly.
So our program
was running before on our local machine,
connecting onto the server via this username
and the password onto this database
and getting information from a products table.
And now we have promoted that application
onto an Azure web app
with the help of our build and release pipeline.
In the next chapter, let's go ahead and introduce a task
when it comes onto our SQL database.

--- Lab - Azure Pipelines - SQL Database table ---

(lively staccato guitar intro riff)
-: Now, in the last chapter
we had deployed our SQL based application
by the use of a release pipeline
onto an Azure web app.
Again, we had seen this before.
But, now, I want to add a SQL based task
onto my release pipeline.
Let's imagine that as part of our database,
we don't have a table in place.
We don't have that data in place.
We need to go and initialize a table
with data within the database itself.
Let me go over onto the SQL database,
go onto the query editor.
Again, let me login.
Go onto the table,
for the products table.
Let me go and delete the table.
I can do a drop table command,
and dvo.products.
Let me click on Run.
Here, if I refresh the database, go on tables,
I don't have any tables in place.
If I now refresh my Azure web app
we're gonna get an error.
And that's because our application
is not able to fetch the data,
because we've gone ahead and dropped the table.
Let's now add a task
onto our SQL app pipeline
to create that table along with our data.
I'll go on to Edit and edit the pipeline,
the deployment onto the test environment stage.
Let me add another task.
Here, I'm gonna search for SQL.
I'm gonna choose Azure SQL Database Deployment.
Click on Add, go onto the task.
In the display name,
I'll say a Azure SQL Table Creation.
Just give a different name.
choose My Subscription.
Scroll down.
I need to give the Azure SQL Server name.
Let me go onto my database.
I'll click on, Okay.
I'm just navigating away from the query editor.
I'll copy the server name from here.
I'll past it here.
What is database name?
That's app dv.
What are the login details?
My username and the password
that I use to connect onto my database.
Scroll down.
In terms of the deployment type, I won't run a script.
I'm gonna choose an inline SQL script.
And here,
let me copy the script,
which we had run earlier on for creating the table,
and inserting our data into the table itself.
Once we have all of this in place,
I'll click on Save and hit on OK.
I'm gonna put this task in front.
I need this task to run before the deployment task
of deploying our code onto the Azure web app,
just to have the table in place.
I'll click on Save and let's create a release.
I'll hit on Create.
Let's wait for this to complete.
So, our job is complete.
If I go onto my Azure web app
and hit on Refresh,
it's now working as expected
and that's because our script file has run.
And if you go ahead onto the query editor for your database,
I mean you should be seeing the table in place.
Go onto Tables and we can see the table in place.
So, in the chapter, I wanna show you
how you can have a task in place
when it comes onto your database for populating a database
with table and some data.

--- Lab - Azure Pipelines - Azure Web App - Connection string ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the prior chapter,
we had seen how we could have a release pipeline
that could publish our application onto an Azure Web App.
And at the same time,
there was also kind of a script that ran
that created a table
and inserted data into the table.
Now, in this chapter, I wanna go through
how we can add a connection string
as an application setting onto the Azure Web App.
See, in our code earlier on,
we were embedding the database server name,
the username, the password, the database name
within our code itself,
but this is obviously a bad practice.
When it comes onto the Azure App Service,
you can go onto the configuration setting.
In the configuration setting,
you can create something known as a connection string.
In terms of the name for example,
you can give a name of SQL connection.
In the type, if you're connecting onto an Azure SQL database
from your Azure Web App, you can choose SQL Azure.
And in terms of the value,
if you go onto your SQL database,
there is something known as
showing the database connection strings.
You can copy all of this, place it here.
What you need to change is the password.
So for example, I put my password as a Azure123,
click on okay, and then click on save.
So now the database connection string
is part of or basically a setting in the Azure Web App.
And then you change your .NET code
to pick up this connection string
and then you connect onto the database.
So instead of embedding the database connection details
within your code itself,
you can pick it up from the Azure App Service.
So let's see now how we can implement this
via the use of a release pipeline.
I'll discard this change,
so I don't have the connection string.
I've made some changes onto the code
which we had earlier on
when it came onto connecting onto the database.
Now, instead of embedding the database details
within the code itself,
I am picking it up from the configuration,
I'm expecting there should be a connection string name
of SQL connection.
Then automatically this code will get that value
of the connection string and then connect onto the database.
And everything else remains the same.
It's only the way that we are getting the correction string.
We're gonna promote this code has a new Git repository.
The reason I'm doing this is,
I said there could be students
who are coming from an AZ-104 background
who don't have much developer knowledge,
and I want to ensure
that I try to keep it as simple as possible.
Obviously as a developer,
if you're coming from the AZ-204 background,
you will definitely know how to make changes
onto an existing Git repository
so that you have the same code base in place.
But we'll create a new Git repository,
create a new build pipeline.
Let me go on to Git and create a new Git repository.
Go onto Azure DevOps.
Just give a repository name,
do a create and a push.
So this is complete.
If I go onto Azure Repos,
I can see that SQL App secure in place.
Let me set up a build.
I'll choose asb.net co.
Again, let me replace everything in the Build pipeline.
Let me give a different name here.
Let me do a save and a run
so at least it creates a build.
Now, in the meantime, let me go onto my SQL App pipeline.
Let me make some changes here.
When it comes onto the deployment
onto the test environment stage, I'll go onto the task.
So we add the table creation task
on the deployment of the code
onto the Azure Web App.
Let me add another task.
The task that I want is a Azure App Service Settings.
I'll click on add.
I'll go onto the task, choose my a Azure subscription.
Choose the App Service name.
So it's SQL.
Choose the resource group.
Scroll down.
I wanted to find the connection string.
Now, this how we specify the connection string.
The name is SQL Connection because that's the same reference
I'm making in my code.
I need to copy what is the value for the connection string.
Go onto my database, copy this, place it here.
I need to change my password.
And everything else is fine.
Let me go it and click on save.
I'll go back onto my pipeline.
So the job is complete when it comes onto the build.
Let me delete this artifact and add a new artifact.
This time it's gonna be SQL App Secure.
Click on Add, Enable condensed deployment.
Click on save.
Now let me go ahead and create a release.
Now, let's come back once the deployment is complete,
but do you think the deployment
will actually go onto completion?
Let's wait and see.
So we've got a failure.
If I go onto the logs,
the failure is in the task of the Azure SQL Table creation.
It's seeing this only and object in place.
And obviously there is already the products table in place.
And here this task is trying to create the table again.
For this what we can do is we'll go back onto our pipeline.
Let me click on edit, go onto the task
onto the Azure SQL Table creation task.
And let me make a change here.
I'll delete all of this and add another SQL script.
Again, this is based on your knowledge of SQL
and how do you interact with Microsoft SQL Server,
because in the end,
the Azure SQL database is just a cloud version
of Microsoft SQL Server.
With help of the information underscore_schema.tables,
I'm trying to check if the products table exists.
If it does not exist, then go ahead
and create the products table and then insert the data.
Let me go ahead and click on save,
and let's create the release again.
So we're just trying to add some intelligence
onto our SQL script just to first check
if it does exist, then don't do anything.
Now, once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto my App Service,
let me click on Refresh
when it comes onto the configuration,
and I can see my SQL connection in place.
If I just refresh my Azure Web App,
it basically works how expected,
but the only difference is
my code is now picking up the connection string
from the a Azure web App Service setting
and we have deployed this
via a task in our release pipeline.

--- Release pipeline - Associate work items ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I just wanna go
through a feature when it comes
onto your pipelines as your release pipelines.
And then when it comes onto end to end traceability
and let me explain this.
If you go onto your pipeline, so I'm just going
onto one of my existing pipelines that I have.
This was the Sequel App pipeline.
If I go onto the pipeline itself, let me click on edit.
If I go onto options in integrations
I can report the deployment status
onto basically my work items that I have in a Azure Boards.
Let me go ahead and save this for the moment.
In another tab, let me go onto a Azure Boards
onto the work items.
Now, currently I don't have any task in place
that are in the new state.
They're all in the closed state.
I'll just create a new work item, a task.
I'll just give a title.
I'll click on save, right?
So we have this task in place, trying to keep it simple.
Let me go onto my repost now onto Sequel App Secure.
Let me make a small change.
So I'll go onto my pages, onto the index page.
Click on edit.
I'll just say, this is a list of products,
version one, hit on commit.
Change to the application and in the work items now,
I can link it onto the work item.
So I'll just link it onto the task
that I just created and let me hit on commit.
What this will do is first obviously,
it's going to do a build, and after the build
it should go ahead and create a release
of our Sequel App pipeline.
Let's wait till all of this is complete.
Now, once a build is complete
and the release is also complete,
if I go back onto Azure Boards and let me go onto that task.
In the task, if I go onto the links here
you will see the release that was linked now
from the release pipeline onto this particular work item.
So you kind of have an end to end traceability
wherein a commit was made onto the repository
and what was the release that was triggered
as part of this commit change.
So that's what I mean by end to end traceability
where you have from the task right up to the commit,
the build pipeline and the release stage as well.

--- The next step - Containers ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now we've seen with the help of Pipelines,
we were able to deploy a .NET based application
onto an Azure web app, onto Azure Virtual Machines.
We also saw how we could have a task in place
when it comes onto an Azure SQL Database.
Now I want to show you how you can use Pipelines
to basically deploy a container-based application onto,
let's say, the Azure Container Instant Service
or onto Azure Kubernetes.
If you're coming from an AZ 204 background,
and even an AZ 104 background,
you will have familiarity.
You will have knowledge when it comes at least onto
the basic understanding of Docker and how do you use Docker.
In my courses when it comes onto AZ 204,
and even if you're looking in general,
when it comes onto working with a .NET based application
and then publishing it onto a container-based system,
like Kubernetes or Azure Container Instances,
there is a list of steps that you need to perform.
So let's say we have a .NET-based application
as we've normally been using a ASP.NET application.
Every one you deployed has a container.
We first need to ensure that we containerize
our .NET-based application.
For this, we need to have Docker installed on a machine
so that we can containerize that application.
So we'll probably go through this entire list of steps.
The first step is, let's say,
to install Docker on a virtual machine.
Then we would publish a build of our application
onto that virtual machine that has Docker installed.
With the help of a Docker file,
we can create something known as a Custom Image.
This image is going to have our application in place.
We can then publish that image onto a private registry.
This could be the a Azure Container Registry Service.
And then we could use that image to deploy a container
either onto the Azure Container Instant Service,
or onto Azure Kubernetes.
We want to now have the ability
to deploy a container-based on an image
via the use of Azure Pipelines.
I wanna go step-by-step,
and first we'll have a revision also.
During this journey, using the manual process
so I will manually also first create, just as a revision,
an image based on a .NET based application that we have.
This will then help us understand
how do we do the same via use of Azure Pipelines.
So let's first start with the manual process
of how do we containerize a .NET based application.

--- Revision - Building a Docker image ---

(upbeat music)
-: Here in Visual Studio, I have a .NET application.
We've already seen this application before.
This connects onto an Azure SQL Database,
so I still have my Azure SQL Database in place.
This Azure SQL Database
has the products table in place.
So this is the server,
which is hosting the Azure SQL Database.
And in this is the SQL Database itself.
Remember, this has a table
of products and has some information.
And this .NET program goes out
and displays the information accordingly.
I just have a different way
in which I'm specifying the connection string.
So again, I'm hard coding just for the purpose
of this lab the connection string within the code itself.
If I run the application just to confirm everything
is working properly.
Right, so it's getting the list of products
from the Azure SQL Database.
Now, I wanna go ahead and containerize this application.
I wanna create basically an image.
For this, we need to have a place
which has Docker installed
so that we can create a Docker image.
For this purpose, I'm gonna create a new Linux VM
as part of my Azure subscription.
We'll install Docker.
We'll copy our .NET Core,
basically our published build code
onto the server and create an image out of that build
so that we can deploy that image as a container.
I have the PuTTY tool in place on my system.
You can go ahead and download.
This is used to connect onto a Linux-based machine.
I have the instructions basically
from the Docker documentation
to install the Docker engine on an Ubuntu machine,
basically a Linux-based distribution.
I've also gone ahead and downloaded
and installed a free tool known as WinSCP
that will allow me from my Windows system
to copy files onto the Linux-based machine.
First things first, let me create a new resource.
This is gonna be a Linux-based machine.
I'll choose Ubuntu Server.
Let me create a new resource group.
Hit on OK.
I'll just give a virtual machine name.
Choose the location.
No infrastructure required, so Ubuntu Server.
In the authentication type,
just to make things simple,
I'll choose password.
I'll mention a username.
I'll mention my own password.
This will be used to connect onto the Linux machine.
And I'll go ahead with the creation of the machine itself.
So let's come back once we have the machine in place.
Once the deployment is complete,
I'll go ahead onto the resource.
I'll take the public IP address.
I'll copy it onto the clipboard.
I'm gonna launch the PuTTY tool,
which I've downloaded and installed on my system.
Put in the hostname, click on Open.
Let me log into the machine,
so the username I presented was Linux user.
And I'll mention my password.
And now I'm logged into the machine.
Let me just clear the screen.
Let me execute the installation steps provided
in the Docker documentation.
Just going through the steps one by one.
Scroll down.
And then we have the final command to install Docker.
Once you have Docker in place,
let's confirm.
So we have the Docker now running on this machine.
Let's now go on to the next step
wherein we create an image based
on our .NET application.
For this, I'm gonna go on to the project
and let me publish my project
onto my local machine.
In terms of the publish profile,
I'll choose folder, go on to Next.
This will be in the bin release directory.
I'll hit on finish to create the published profile.
And let me hit on publish.
So it's gone ahead and published the content.
If I open up the folder,
it's in my temporary directory
within my project folder
in the bin released .NET 6.0 in the publish folder.
I need to now copy all of this onto my Linux server.
This is my completed build.
Earlier on, we had see how this goes into a ZIP file
and then can be published on to an Azure Web App.
Now, we need to copy all of these files
as it is and create a Docker image.
For this, I'm gonna use the WinSCP tool.
Here let me create a new session.
I'll choose a new site.
For the Linux VM, just copying the IP address.
Paste it here.
Linux user.
And my password.
Let me log in.
Click on Yes.
On the left-hand side,
I'm gonna go on to my temporary directory,
onto SQL Lab.
Let's go onto the bin folder.
Release folder, .NET 6.0, publish.
What I'll do is let me copy the publish folder.
So I'll just drag the publish folder
onto the right-hand side.
This will now initiate the copy of this entire folder
onto the server.
Now, while this is being done,
in order to create an image,
so we're gonna create now a Docker image
and we're doing all of this manually
at this point in time.
Later on, we'll see how to use pipelines
to actually work with all of this.
We need to have a Docker file
in place with this name.
It should be Dockerfile.
This Dockerfile will contain instructions telling Docker
on how to construct our Docker image
that's going to have our .NET application.
The first instruction is a from instruction.
We are telling that the base image to be used
is an image that contains the runtime
for ASP.NET 6.0
'cause remember, our application is based on .NET 6.0
and requires the runtime to run within the container.
Just creating a working directory.
I'm then copying all of my contents
and what are all of the contents?
I want to copy basically all of these files
onto my image
because these are all of my build files.
I'm exposing port 80
so that the application can run on port 80
within the container.
Basically I'm exposing port 80 of the container itself
when it runs.
And I'm telling please go head and run sqlapp.dll.
See, this is the file, the application file
that needs to run within the container.
This will then go ahead and run our application.
This is possible when it comes on to .NET Core.
A very simple Dockerfile.
We have to copy this also onto our server.
Once a copy is complete,
I'll go on to the publish folder.
On the left-hand side,
I'll go back onto my temporary directory.
I'll take my Dockerfile.
I'll drag it again onto the right-hand side
in the place where I have sqlapp.dll.
Next, I need to run a command.
This is going to now build our Docker image
based on that Dockerfile
and based on my .NET Core application.
Here in the PuTTY session on the server,
I'll just clear the screen.
If I do a directory listing,
I can see my publish folder.
Let me go onto it.
If I do a directory listing again,
I can see all of the files in place.
I can see my Dockerfile.
I'll right click to have the command in place.
This is gonna I said build now a Docker image.
I'll hit on Enter.
It's performing the required steps
to have that image in place.
Again, remember, this is not supposed
to be a full-fledged course
when it comes on to Docker and Kubernetes.
And again, I've discussed a lot
about this in my AZ-204 course.
Just for the purpose of understanding
because we need to understand how to manage our work
with containers on Azure Services
via the use of Azure DevOps.
For this purpose, I'm just doing a quick revision
when it comes on to containerizing an application
and how do you deploy the container
using Azure-based services.
We now have our image in place.
If I do a sudo Docker images,
I will see my SQL app image in place.
Let's mark now an end onto this chapter
and let's move on to the next.

--- Revision - Deploying a container ---

(upbeat music)
(upbeat music ends)
-: Now in our prior chapter, we had gone ahead,
and create an image based on a .net application.
Now what next?
See, we need to publish that image onto a DACA registry,
so that we can then pull the image down,
and create a container in various Azure based services.
For this, I'm gonna create another resource.
This is gonna be the container.
This is gonna be the Container Registry Resource,
I'll choose this particular service,
hit on create,
I'll choose my resource group,
I'll just try to give a unique name,
when it comes onto the registry,
I'll leave the location as it is.
Go to networking, contact, review, and create,
and quickly create this container registry.
We need to publish our image now,
from the Linux machine onto this container registry.
Once you have the registry in place, I'll go ahead
onto the resource.
If I go onto the repositories,
currently we don't have anything in place.
We now need to push our image from here,
onto the Container Registry.
The first thing I'll do is to install the Azure CLI tool,
on this Linux machine.
Here are the instructions in the Microsoft documentation,
on how do we install the as Azure CLI.
Let me copy the steps again,
based on what is present in the documentation,
I'll hit on enter.
Let me copy the next step.
And then finally, the last step is to,
install the Azure CLI itself.
And once this is done,
we are gonna execute the next list of steps.
First step is to log into our Azure container Registry.
Here we need to go onto the registry name.
Let me copy it and replace it within the commands here.
This is the name of the registry, this is the user name.
And how do we get the password?
If you go onto the access keys,
we can enable the admin user.
This will give us two passwords,
we can use any password.
I'll choose the first password I copied onto the clipboard,
and let me paste it here.
Once we're done, I'll clear the screen.
Let's execute this command to log into,
our Azure Container Registry.
This is fine.
The next step,
we need to now tag our local image that we created.
So I'll again copy the registry name, place it here.
And then finally,
we need to push our image onto the container registry.
Let's take this command.
This is done.
And then finally, let's take the final command,
and push it onto the Azure Container Registry.
So you can see this quite all of steps,
if you want to basically create an image,
and then publish it onto the Azure Container Registry.
If you have DACA install on your local machine.
So let's say on your laptop,
you're working on Visual Studio,
If you install DACA on your local machine,
then from within Visual Studio itself,
you can use a Docker file,
you can actually create an image,
and also publish it onto the Azure Container Registry.
But sometimes it's a little bit difficult to have,
Docker installed locally on your machine.
That's why I have chosen, I always choose a route,
of creating a separate machine on the Azure platform,
installing DACA and doing everything from there,
because on your local machine, you could be having a lot
of restrictions that might not allow you to create,
that DACA image.
And we gonna see when it comes onto Azure pipelines,
how we can streamline all of this,
and make it much more easier to publish our images,
onto the Azure Container Registry.
Once the upload is complete,
you can see the size, basically of the image.
It has the latest tag.
If I go onto repositories now,
I can see my repository in place.
Now, how do I know that my image is a working image?
For me, the best way is to go ahead,
and quickly create an Azure container instance to pick
up this particular image.
The Azure Container instance will spin up a container,
based on the image.
I'll go onto all resources,
I'll hit on create,
I'll choose container instances,
hit on create,
choose my resource group,
just give a container name,
in North Europe,
I'll choose a Azure Container Registry.
It's gonna pick up the SQL App image,
the latest one from this registry,
the OS type is Linux so it's fine,
On the networking,
in the networking type, I'm marking it as public,
I'm exposing port 80.
All of this very important.
If I want to expose my container onto the internet,
the networking type is public and I'm exposing port 80.
Let me go onto advance.
Right everything as it is, go on tags,
go on review and create.
Let me go ahead and hit on create.
Let's wait till we have the container instance in place.
Once you have the container instance in place,
I'll go onto the resource,
I'll take the public IP address, go onto a new tab,
and I can see my SQL application running.
Here the biggest difference is that,
it is running within a container.
Since my Azure SQL database is open onto the internet,
basically other Azure services can access my
Azure SQL database,
my application running within the container,
can actually interact with the Azure SQL database.
So we're looking at different ways,
of publishing our application.
We can publish our application,
on an Azure virtual machine, on an Azure web app,
as a container right now,
within the Azure container Instant Service.
Right, so these chapters were just like,
as a refresher to show you how do we go about,
containerizing a .net application.
We publish it onto an Azure Container Registry,
so that we have an image that could be picked up
from somewhere,
and now we have the Azure container instance,
that is running a container based on that image.
Now let's see how we can implement all of this,
via the use of, as you know, pipelines.

--- Azure Pipeline - Azure Container Registry ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapters,
we had looked at the manual way
of dockerizing a .NET application,
publishing it onto an Azure container registry,
and then seeing how does it work as a container
within the Azure Container instance.
Now let's see how we can make use of Azure
by appliance to streamline all of this has a process.
Firstly, let me delete the Azure container instance
that I had create early on
'cause I don't require this anymore.
We'll still keep our container registry as it is.
I can go onto the container registry
and then let me go onto my registry.
Let's go onto the repositories.
Let me delete this particular repository.
We're gonna use now an Azure pipeline to publish
an image as a repository onto this local registry.
I'll hit on refresh, I don't have any repositories in place.
As a first step,
right, so in Visual Studio, I have the program in place.
I also want to ensure that as part of the code,
so we're gonna upload now this code as usual
onto a Git repository in Azure repos.
Along with the code,
I also want to take this Docker file.
So let me copy the Docker file.
Let me place it either here
or I can put it in the SQL app folder as well,
it depends where you want to keep the file
because I want this to be part of the Git repository
as your pipelines can then pick up the Docker file
from the Git repository.
If you want a cleanup, you can delete what you have
in the bin directory when it comes onto the release folder.
And now going back onto my project,
let's create a Git repository.
I'll choose Azure DevOps.
I'll give a different name of SQL app Docker.
I'll do a create and a push.
So once this is done,
let me go onto my repos now, let's go onto SQL app Docker,
let's set up a build.
Now, when I click to set up a build,
automatically, when it comes on to configuring my pipeline,
it is showing options for Docker and Kubernetes.
This probably could be because I have a Docker file in place
within my source code repository.
I'm gonna choose the option of a build and a push
of an image onto the Azure container registry.
Here, remember we are in the option of creating
a build pipeline, and this is done using YAML.
But in YAML, we can also push now an image
onto the Azure container registry.
The point I'm trying to make here is we had seen YAML code
when it came onto creating a build pipeline,
we had also seen the classic editor,
but we had focused more on the YAML code.
Whereas in release pipelines,
we had focused on the classic interface,
that's the UI interface.
But for release pipelines, you could also YAML in place.
So actually, you can use the same YAML code
in your build pipelines,
you can extend it to also have a release as well.
You can put everything within a single YAML file.
You don't need to have your release
as part of that interface.
If you have everything within a single YAML file,
it can be version controlled along with your code.
So in order to now showcase the release
of applications via the use of YAML,
that's why I was going via this route of showing
how we can use YAML to deploy now
like an image onto an Azure container registry
and later on, we'll see how we can deploy it
onto Azure Kubernetes as well.
I'll choose Docker.
When I choose Docker,
it's gonna start up a wizard to create a service connection
onto your Azure container registry,
so that it can easily push the image that it creates
onto the Azure container registry.
I'll choose Azure subscription, click on continue,
it'll ask me to authorize.
So now I'm basically signing in
onto my Azure account to authorize the use
of connecting onto the Azure container registry.
So here I'll choose my container registry,
I have my image name.
In terms of the Docker file,
it is taking from the prebuilt variable
of my sources directory.
This is basically my repository slash SQL app
slash the Docker file.
Because we have placed our Docker file in our code, remember
within the SQL app project here.
Within SQL app project, we have our Docker file in place.
If I go onto my temp three directory again,
just to conform.
So in the SQL app folder, we have our Docker file in place
and it is the same folder structure we are copying
onto our Git repository.
It is very important to understand your folder structure
when you're working with pipelines,
because I said pipelines is like a robot,
you are telling it what to do.
In case if you don't see your container registry
being listed here,
a recommendation is to go in and log out of the
Azure DevOps account and log in again.
I'll click on validate and configure.
It is now, actually remember also creating
a service connection.
If I quickly open up
my projects in a new tab onto Agile project,
onto the project settings,
let me go onto pipelines and service connections.
It's creating a connection
onto that Azure container registry.
It has gone ahead and created now a YAML pipeline.
We have some variables in place
and we have our normal YAML code in place.
Here in terms of the repository,
it is being marked as self.
All it is saying that please take the code
from the repository that this YAML file is referring to.
In terms of the variable, we have the service connection,
the name of the image repository that it's gonna create,
and the name of the container registry,
the Docker file path, and the tag.
It's using an image now of Ubuntu latest.
So there are now some differences here
when it comes onto the YAML structure
or the file we had seen onto build pipelines.
Actually, everything is the same,
but we are seeing kind of some differences
when it comes onto the code base itself.
And I'll explain all of this for you.
We have a task, a Docker task
which is doing a build and a push.
So it's gonna build an image
from our code base and then publish it onto our registry.
If I run this code as it is,
it might publish an image, a Docker image
onto the container registry,
but that image is going to be the wrong image.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter
wherein we've gone through the initial steps.
In the next chapter,
we'll make some changes onto our pipeline
so that it will correctly create the right image
and push it onto the Azure container registry.

--- Azure Pipeline - Azure Container Registry - Implementation ---

(upbeat intro music playing)
-: Now in the last chapter, we had used the wizard
to create a YAML pipeline
that should build an image
and publish it onto our Azure Container Registry.
Our project now also has a service connection
so that the pipeline can publish an image directly
onto the Azure Container Registry.
But I told you that if we run this pipeline as it is,
it might work. It'll go on to completion.
But the image that you're going to have is not
going to be the right one.
You won't be able to use it to actually create a container
out of that image.
We're going to make changes, but before that, two things.
First thing is, let's do a quick comparison
between this YAML file
and the build pipeline that we had seen earlier on.
Just a quick comparison.
The trigger remains the same.
So based on the main branch
the only difference is the resources wherein the self means.
It is mentioning the repository
in which we have our Docker file in place.
We have our variables, which I talked about
when we have these service connection, etc.
We have the name of the VM image here
and it is being used here.
So in the pool, we have the VM image.
This image will be used to carry out
the instructions that's within this pipeline.
This all remains the same.
Here after the variables, we directly have steps
and we have the task within those steps.
Here if you scroll down, yes, we do have the steps.
And within the steps we have the task.
And the task is a Docker task.
And the command is to do a build
and a push onto the Azure Container Registry.
But before that, we have some jobs and stages.
In our build pipeline,
actually, everything runs as part of a job.
Even though we don't explicitly mention a job here
it will still run as part of a job.
Because when we look at, let's say the builds
any build that we have conducted, right?
If I go onto a run, it runs as part of a job.
So in the end I said,
"Everything is running as part of a job
but we are not specifically mentioning the job itself."
The job keyword.
Well, you can mention the job keyword
if you want to give a specific name
on what the job is meant to do.
Here under jobs, there is a job wherein the name is given
as build, and it has a display name.
The job is going to run on the spool
and these are the steps for that particular job.
And then this job is part of a stage.
You're going to have multiple stages
as we had seen in our release pipeline
we had a stage to release onto a test environment
onto a staging environment, etc.
Because here now we are expanding our YAML file
in such a way that it does a build
and it does a release with the help of stages.
Here in terms of the release
it's basically releasing an image that it is going to build
as part of the pipeline onto Azure Container Registry.
So just want to do a quick
comparison between the YAML files.
Next, why won't this pipeline work as it should?
I told you that when you run this pipeline, it will work.
Most probably it should, but then you will not
get the image that you want.
In another tab,
let me go onto my repositories.
So it's basically creating an image
based on the SQL app Docker registry
in which we have our SQL app folder.
And then we have all of our code files
not the published files, the code files
and then we have the Docker file.
This step of doing a build and a push
is basically what we had implemented earlier
on our Linux server.
What were the commands we had done there?
We had done a pseudo Docker build
and then we had done tagging
and then we had pushed it onto the registry.
So our pipeline is simulating all
of these commands wherein it does a build
and it does a push onto the Azure Container Registry.
But what are we building?
Do you remember what were we building?
We were building what was the published build
of our .Net project and not the source code.
There is a prime difference
between your source code, that's all of this
and the build that is in the published folder
which we had copied onto the server.
This build is what needs to go
into that image and not your source code.
That's why this pipeline, even though it should work
it's actually going to take your source code
instead of your build
and then put it in the image
and that's not going to work.
Hence, we need to make some changes onto our pipeline
so that it'll first build our .Net code
and then take that. Net code and create an image.
And we only know the steps that we need to have
in place for building a .Net based application.
We had seen this earlier on.
So now before the task of Docker,
I'm going to add task here.
We had already seen this task before.
Since we are running on Ubuntu latest
I have the task of installing .Net6
doing a build of our project and then doing a Publish.
I have all of these red squiggly lines
in place because since this is YAML
it needs to be with the right indentation.
So making sure everything is fine.
Right, so we have the publish.
So now we are publishing
onto the output which we've already seen earlier on
onto our artifact staging directory.
I'll just cancel this.
Now the next step is within the Docker task,
I need to tell the Docker task to take the build
from basically the files
from the artifact staging directory.
In the inputs, I can put something as the build context
wherein I take the build artifact staging directory,
and /SQL app.
Because the final published contents, like for example
my run times, mySQLapp.dll
is actually going to be in a folder SQL app.
So I am telling this Docker task
when it comes onto taking all of the files,
please go ahead onto the artifact staging directory
within this SQL app folder.
And lastly, in terms of the tag
it is tagging each image that it creates
with the build number or with the build ID,
And that's fine.
If you want to have multiple tags,
let's say you also want to attach the latest tag as well,
you can do that.
Now that we have all of this in place,
let me do a save and run.
We have our job in place.
If you go onto it, you now also have the stage
being shown a build and a push stage.
We have the job within the stage
and everything remains the same.
It's going to run task as part of this job.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now, once this is done
if I go onto my local registry,
go on to repositories.
If I hit on Refresh, I can see my repository in place.
And how do we confirm that this is the working one?
I can go onto all resources and create a container instance.
(keyboard clicking sounds)
I normally use container instances to quickly test
out the images that I have in my repository the best way.
We go on to the resource group
(keyboard clicking sounds)
Azure Container Registry
See here in terms of the image tag
we have only one image, but we have different tags.
It is having the build ID of 99 or the latest.
You can choose either one.
Go onto Networking again, public port 80
go on Review and Create.
And let me go ahead and hit on Create.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once the deployment is complete
if I go onto the resource, if I go onto containers
I can see it is in the running state.
Go onto the Overview, take the public IP address
go onto a new tab.
I can see my application in the running state.
So now we didn't have to use our Linux machine
we didn't have to install Docker.
We didn't have to execute some complex commands.
Everything is being done as part of our pipeline.
Our pipeline is taking our code base, building it
taking the build, creating an image
and pushing the image onto the Azure Container Registry.
All of the complex manual tasks that we had
implemented earlier on
is done so simply via the use of a YAML file.

--- Azure Pipelines - Azure Container Registry - Debugging ---

Narrator: Hi and welcome back!
So in the last chapter I had shown you
how you can have a pipeline in place
that can build out net-code, create an image
and the publish it on Udemy as your container registry.
Now when building my pipeline, I go back here
I click on "edit".
I did do some research on understanding
how to create this pipeline.
Because see, by default if you look at the YAML file.
The default YAML file.
I told you that it (indistinct), it's not going to work.
Because its going to take your source code
and then put that source code into the image
which is wrong.
It needs to take a build and that build needs to go
into your image.
There is another way in which we can go about
this entire process and that is to make a change
onto our Dockerfile which I will show you later on.
But, this is something that I had to research on
and try to understand that this was something that we
had to do.
We had to create DAS in our pipeline.
To first build our project and then take that build
on to our image.
That was the first thing.
The next thing,
was trying to understand how to make this Dockertask
because even if you have all of this code in place
right, to build your .NET project and then have
the build in your artifacts staging directory.
Even then, if you don't have this command of the
build context.
This Dockertask will again still take your source code
and not take the build in your artifacts staging directory.
Hints are to make use of the build context.
But, that's not enough.
Now, how did I come to know
that I should go into the SQL app. folder?
I'm using magic because I had to research on
understanding that the files need to be taken
from this directory.
And the way I did that was to add another task
actually here, before the Dockertask.
Here what I'm doing is, I've added a task
it's basically a PowerShell command
that you can use within your YAML file.
This will actually give an output in the log
so when you run the build pipeline
you will actually get the output to tell me what are
all of the files in the build artifacts staging directory.
Because initially when I was trying to do a save and a run
this was during my research.
I didn't put the SQL app. directory
and obviously my image was not working as desired.
Next because the build files were going into
a SQL app. directory but initially I didn't know that.
So in order to understand where the problem lies
I first want to understand, like, you know, how does
Azure Devops.
Because see all this is happening
on the Microsoft hosted-agent.
If this was our own self-hosted agent, I could
log onto the machine and see the artifacts staging directory
in terms of how does it structure the files.
But since the Microsoft hosted agent, basically dies
after the pipeline is complete.
I need to find some way within the pipeline.
This is like debugging!
I am trying to figure out how does Azure Devops actually
store the files.
Hence, you could use many commands.
The one command is a PowerShell command that you can
embed within your YAML file.
Again this is just from a debugging purpose.
Then later on, when you want to ensure that
this YAML file is not publishing your code for real
in a production based environment
you can go and remove these commands.
But I'm just saying that, please go and list the contents
of this particular path.
You can give any display name over here.
Let me go and do a save.
(typing can be heard)
And let us wait.
Once the build is complete, once the job is complete
if I go on to the "list content task"
it's going to give me information about all of the files
basically and the folders, within that staging directory
which is there.
If I scroll down, this is basically all of my source
code files.
But I want to go on to my build files
and that's where it starts from, so it starts from here.
And then we have our SQL Out .dealer etc.
And you can see everything is within a SQL Out folder.
That is when I came to know that
I need to put that SQL Out folder reference
also when it comes onto the build context.
And then finally you know I came to know that
the right image is being pushed because if I go on
to the build and the push stage.
Right, so this all of the logs
and logs are very, very important
it gives you kind of a headway on the you are doing
the entire pipeline process correctly.
In terms of the size of my image, so this is the build ID
which is being tagged for my image.
Icon size is 1788.
It's actually the same size as the image
which we had pushed earlier on manually.
Then it was not going as planned
it was taking the (indistinct)score first.
So the size was different.
So at that point in time I knew that something was wrong
it's not the right image.
Once I got the size in place, okay fine I came to know,
okay we are on the right path, so, you know we are
having the right file as part of the image.
So in this chapter, just wanna give, you know my experience
I wanna share my experience on how I went about trying
to build this pipeline
when it came on to building my app and then pushing
it on to the container registry.

--- Lab - Azure Container Instance - Release pipelines ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I quickly wanna show how
we can create a release pipeline to deploy the image that we
have within the Azure Container Registry
onto an Azure container instance.
Here, let me create a new release pipeline.
I'll start with an empty job.
I'll say deployment to,
Container instance. I'll click on save.
Now this time our pipeline is a little bit
different cause, see I wanna show as many examples as I can,
when it comes on to deployment and building
it comes onto your application.
This time around, I'm not gonna add an artifact
because our artifact is already available
as an image in an Azure container Registry.
So it's not required
that you need to have an artifact in place.
But then what you should know in this particular case is
because you don't have an artifact in place, you
don't have kind of a continuous integration cycle in place.
Here, you can do a manual release
of this particular pipeline.
Let me give a name.
Here now, in terms of the job and the task, again
we need to have a task that will run on an agent.
Let me add a task
Do I have anything when it comes on to container?
Okay. We have a container build.
We have Azure devops for containers
Azure functions for containers.
We have Docker, Docker compose, but we don't
have anything when it comes onto Azure Container instance.
Now, when this is the case
if you don't have anything when it comes on
to a task for deployment onto an a Azure container instance
what we can do is we can use other ways of deployment.
One way I wanna show you is executing a Azure CLI.
You can use the a Azure command line interface to interact
with your Azure resources and even Azure PowerShell coming
from an easy point of for background
or even an easy tool for background, we do know
that you can use a Azure CLI as a tool or even
Azure PowerShell to work with your Azure based resources.
So we can just have a plain Azure CLI task
for creating our container instance.
Let me add the Azure CLI task.
I'll go onto it.
Let me go and choose my subscription.
In terms of the script, I'll choose a batch script here.
I'll scroll down, I'll choose an inline script
and then we paste my script here.
We are using the AZ container create command to
create a new container within this resource group.
we are giving a unique name for our container instance.
So make sure you change the instance name here.
We are giving amount of CPU and memory
onto this container instance.
We are saying to make sure port AD is open
please assign a public IP address
onto this container instance, because
if you don't mention this, it'll be a private IP address
and we have to give what is a name of our registry.
So I need to take this copy it here.
And in terms of the username as well, we'll copy it here.
And what is our registry password?
Well, let's go over onto our registry, onto the access keys.
Let's copy the password, place it here.
With all of this in place.
Let me go ahead and hit on save.
And I told you we don't have any sort
of trigger now for this.
Let's create a normal release to see if it works.
See, I'm trying to give you different ideas
on how you can have these different tasks
in place within your release pipeline.
So I just did this as an example wherein we could deploy
an Azure container instance now,
so we're actually creating a resource
within our release pipeline. And this container
instance should be taking the latest image.
We had mentioned that also in our
Azure CLI command from the container registry.
Once this is complete, if I go onto all resources
I can see my container instance in place.
Let me go onto it.
I'll take the public IP address, go onto a new tab
and I can see my application in place.
A very simple example
on how you can add Azure CLI. You can also have PowerShell
in place that can be added onto your release pipeline
in case if you don't have the task
in place to carry out the task that you want.

--- Revision - Deployment to Azure Kubernetes ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now let's extend the deployment
of our image as containers onto Azure Kubernetes.
We'll see how to use pipelines now
to deploy containers onto the Azure Kubernetes service.
For this I first need to create an Azure Kubernetes cluster.
In all resources, I'll hit on create.
I'll search for the service, hit on create.
I'll choose my existing resource group.
In terms of the configuration, I'll choose dev and test.
I'll scroll down.
Just give a simple cluster name.
In North Europe, no web zones.
Here, in terms of the size
I just change the size onto two CPUs.
That's DS or that's D2S under Scovi 3, hit on select.
I don't need scaling in place, I'll choose manual.
I'll choose the minimum number of nodes
since this is just a demo.
Go onto node pulls, onto access, onto networking.
In integrations, since we only have a registry in place
I'll choose at a Azure Container Registry.
Go in advance, tags, review and create.
And let's go ahead and create this cluster.
This might take around five minutes.
Let's come back once we have the cluster in place.
Now, while the cluster is being deployed,
we are going to deploy a container
based on the image that we have
in our Azure Container Registry.
And for this, we are gonna be using deployment manifest file
and a service manifest file.
We have again, already seen this when it comes
onto Easy 204 and even Easy 104.
Here, I want to deploy my SQL app
Docker as a container onto Azure Kubernetes.
If you're following along
you can give any application name.
Just giving a simple name here,
I need to change what is the image.
You know basically my container registry name.
So in another tab, let me make sure I take the correct name.
Just filter on registry.
Copy this, let me place it here, save it.
And in service.yaml
I'm just creating a service of the type load balancer
so that we can access our application
from the outside world.
Now let's come back once we have our cluster in place.
Now once the cluster is deployed
if I go onto the resource,
let me first manually show you how would you deploy
your manifest files.
It's very simple.
If I go onto workloads, I can create a new workload
with yaml, I can go onto my yaml file, copy all of this,
place it here, click on add, then I can go onto my services.
Again, create with yaml, go onto the service,
copy all of this, place it here, click on add.
If I go onto my workloads I can see my app is getting ready.
If you click on refresh
you can see it is in the ready state.
I'm going onto services.
I need to ensure that for my service
there is now an external IP address in place.
I can click on this.
It'll open the link in a new tab, the IP address.
This should now be having,
again our same application connecting
onto our Azure SQL database.
So I'm having my Azure SQL database
always in place when it comes onto all of the labs
where I have my application connecting
onto the database itself.
It's taking time to load
because the container is still getting up
and running and being attached onto the service.
If you refresh the page
you can see your application again in place.
Now I'm gonna delete my service
and delete the workload because we are gonna deploy
both of this now with the use of our yaml pipeline.
So let's move onto the next chapter.

--- Lab - Pipelines - Deployment to Azure Kubernetes ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the last chapter,
I had shown you the manual deployment of our application,
via these manifest files onto the cluster.
In this chapter, let's see how we can extend the pipeline
that we have, our YAML pipeline.
Let's click on edit.
This was the one which we had for pushing our image
onto the container registry.
Let's extend this pipeline itself
to now publish which we can do,
our image as a container onto Azure Kubernetes
via the use of our manifest files.
I'll just delete this task that I have.
Now, let me go onto a new tab.
Go onto project settings.
The first thing I'll do is to create a service connection.
We need to create a service connection
onto our existing Kubernetes cluster.
Yeah, I'll choose Kubernetes.
I'll scroll down, go onto next.
I'm connecting onto my Azure subscription.
It will gimme a dialect box to authenticate.
Here then, I'll choose my cluster.
Now if you can't see a cluster in place,
just go ahead and log out of your Azure DevOps account
and then log back in again.
In terms of the name space,
I'll choose the default name space.
I'll just give a name for these service connection.
Grant access onto all pipelines and click on save.
Once I have this in place, now as part of my code base
which is being used to basically build my image,
I'm gonna put the manifest files here itself.
In the project, I'll right click and add a new folder,
I'll name this as manifest.
Then let me add an existing item.
I'll just browse
onto the place where I have those manifest files.
So, it's in another folder.
I'll add both of these files.
Let me now check this into Azure Repos
Let me do a commit all and a push.
Definitely it will ask me to fast pull the changes.
So I'll do a pull and a push and it should trigger a build.
For now let me go ahead and cancel the build
cause I don't need that build to run right now.
So let's go onto the pipelines.
I can see the build has been triggered.
Let me go onto the build and cancel the build process
because I want to complete my pipeline.
I want to now add a task.
This is for
Azure Kubernetes, so deploy onto Kubernetes.
I'll choose that service connection.
In terms of the manifest file,
I'll just put as app.yaml for now.
Let me click on add.
Again, indentation is very, very important.
Here the only thing I need to change now is the location
of both my app.yaml file and my service.yaml file.
If I go onto another tab, let's go onto Repos
in my SQL app Docker.
Here in manifest I have app my app.yaml file
and service.yaml.
This is now in my build.sources directory
under the SQL app folder under the manifest folder.
Hence, I'm mentioning the same here as well
/SQLapp/manifest.
Is it manifest?
Yes, it's manifest, so let's make sure
to change it accordingly.
And app.yaml, and service.yaml.
App.yaml, service.yaml.
Right, so this all seems fine.
Let me click on save
deployment to Kubernetes.
Let's commit onto the main branch
and let's wait till the build is complete.
Now, once the job is complete, if I go onto my cluster,
if I go onto workloads,
I can see my My App workload in place.
If I go onto services,
I can see my app service hold in place.
Let me open up the external IP address
and I can see my application holds in place.
So now we have successfully extended our YAML pipeline
so that it makes a deployment now
and release onto Azure Kubernetes.
So here I'm showing you how you can use YAML also
to perform a deployment of your applications.

--- Lab - Release pipelines - Azure Kubernetes ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the prior chapter we had seen
how we could deploy our application as a workload
and a service for the use of the YAML pipeline.
In the chapter, I wanna show you how we can use
a classic release pipeline to do the same.
Firstly, I'll go onto my cluster.
We delete the service
And delete the workload also.
I'll go onto my build pipeline, click on edit.
I'll scroll down, delete the task for the manifest
because we'll do it via the use of release pipeline.
Here I'm just adding a task to publish my pipeline artifacts
so that it is available in the release pipeline.
Why do I want to do this?
I want to ensure
that the manifest file that we have
the app.yaml, and the service.yaml
is available as part of the release pipeline.
I told you that when it comes
onto this build pipeline,
the agent that's going to contain our source files
is gonna be destroyed
but I want those YAML files to be available
onto the next stage.
That's onto our release pipeline.
Hence, for this I'm having a published pipeline
artifact task in place to go ahead and take those files
and to make it available as part of my release pipeline.
Let me click on save.
I'll say 'added published pipeline artifact task'.
Click on save.
They should go it and do a build.
In another tab
let me create a new release pipeline.
So go on releases.
I'll create a new release pipeline.
Start with an empty job.
Deployment to Kubernetes.
Click on save.
Close this.
Let me give a name.
Here, in terms of the task, I'll go onto the agent job.
A lot of task... Let me search for...
Kubernetes, I choose deploy to Kubernetes and click on add.
We're gonna have two tasks.
One is for the
app.yaml deployment.
I'll choose my service connection.
It's in the default name space.
When it comes onto the manifest file now,
let me just wait for this to complete the build pipeline.
It should then publish the artifact which I can see here.
If you go onto the artifact that is produced as part
of the build pipeline, I'll click on this.
We have our source files because we had given the name.
If you go onto the S directory, which contains all
of the source files, we have our manifest folder
in place where we have our app.yaml and our service.yaml.
And now click on this browse manifest.
You'll have saying there are no artifact sources
that are linked.
So the reason for this is, let me go onto my pipeline.
Let me add an artifact.
In terms of the build artifact,
I'll choose SQL App Docker,
click on add, go back onto the task.
Let's browse again and we can see our source files now
onto SQL app manifest app.yaml.
I'll click on OK.
Now let me go back onto my agent.
Let me add a task.
Again, deploy to Kubernetes.
Click on add.
This time I'll say service.yaml deployment.
I'll scroll down.
Choose my connection
in the manifest.
This time will choose the service.yaml file.
I'll click on OK.
Once you have this in place
let me go ahead and create a release.
Let's come back once the release is complete.
Once the deployment is complete
if I go onto my cluster...
Let me refresh the workloads.
I can see my workload in place.
If I go onto my services, I can see my app service in place.
If I open up the link
I can see my application also in place.
So, in this chapter
I wanna show you how you can use your release pipeline
to also deploy your manifest file onto the cluster.

--- Quick Note - Publish Artifacts ---

-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I just want to give a quick note.
This is based on one of the YAML files
we are defined early on.
Here, I am in my SQL App docker registry.
If I go onto my Azure Pipelines.yaml,
if I go onto the history,
since your YAML file is now part of this repository,
you can look at all of the previous changes
that were made onto the YAML file.
That's the benefit of having your build YAML file
as part of your code repository.
If I go on to one of the earlier commits, which we had done,
so it'll show a side by side comparison
when it comes on to that particular commit we had made.
If I do a modified content,
if I scroll down,
so we have this task of publishing a pipeline artifact.
Since we wanted our source files,
so we wanted our YAML files available
as a published artifact so that we could use it later on
in let's say a release pipeline.
At that point in time,
I was actually publishing all of the source files
from our build onto the release.
Now, you might be thinking,
we only wanted particular YAML files
or particular files to be copied across the pipeline.
I mean, we do want all of the source files,
it's like a headache, right?
You're copying all files
which are maybe not required from one part, right?
From the build pipeline onto release pipeline.
I only want a certain set of files to be published
onto the release pipeline so that they can be used.
Well, you can do this
and we are gonna be looking at an example
on selectively taking files as published artifacts
so that it can be reused later on.
We'll do this in the next section
when we are looking at building our infrastructure.
At that point in time, I'm gonna show you an example
on how we can just take select files
as a published artifact
so that it can go in the next stage
or the next part of our pipeline.
I wanna give this quick note,
if students are thinking,
why Alan did you take all of the source files?
So, say I wanna go step by step.
I want first show y'all
that you all can publish your artifacts
in your pipeline so that they can be reused later on.
But then I'll also show you a selective way
in which you can just choose certain artifacts
to be carried forward in your pipeline itself.

--- Lab - Multi-stage builds ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter I want
to go through a different way
in which you can build your docker image.
Earlier on, so if I go onto the Dockerfile,
all we were doing is we were creating an image
based on our build
and in our pipeline we were ensuring
that a build was first conducted for our project
and then that build was placed into the image.
I'm going to replace now this entire Dockerfile
with a different Dockerfile, content.
So I've pasted the code here.
What we are doing is we are having a multistage build
wherein the first set of statements
is now going to restore our project and do a publish.
So the build and the publish is being done here
itself with the help of the Dockerfile.
And then finally we are creating our final image
from the build that occurred in these set of steps.
So we're doing the build and the publish here itself.
Let me go ahead and save this
since we have made a change on to our Dockerfile.
Go on to get changes.
(keys clicking)
Dockerfile.
Do a commit all and a push.
Do a pull and a push,
because there was some changes made
when it came onto, Azure pipeline sort yaml.
Again, this should trigger a build.
I don't want the build to be in place or.
Let's go on to our pipelines.
Go on to the build.
And let's cancel it.
Okay. Now, let me go back onto our yaml.
Let me click on edit.
So last time around, we added biggie-bot prompt
so we were having this published pipeline artifact.
So we can still keep this in place.
If I go on to my cluster, let me delete my service.
And let me go on to the workloads.
And delete the workload as well.
Okay, coming back here, so all these tasks now.
It's fine when we are building
and pushing an image onto the container registry
and the published pipeline artifact.
But now since we are doing the building
and publishing of our core base
with the help of the Dockerfile
we don't need now all of these tasks
when it comes on to the build and the publish.
We don't even need the task of installing dot net
so I'm going to delete all of these tasks.
And we're kind of coming back on to the original yaml file
that got generated where it was doing a simple build
and a push.
So probably this yaml default was assuming
that as part of the Dockerfile we had the build
and the publish in place
or we just had the publish content
as part of our repository.
We can keep everything else as the same.
Here in terms of the build context rules allow
I don't need to mention the artifact directory.
Now we can keep this as it is.
If I just go on to another doc, let it go on to repositories
just to check our Dockerfile.
Make sure it has the latest content.
Let's do a save.
I'll put this as multistage Docker build.
Click on save.
This should trigger a build.
Let's wait til this is complete.
Now once the build is complete
if I go onto my releases,
so I think one thing I forgot to do
when it came on to our previous deployment.
Let me click on edit.
I forgot to enable patterns deployment trigger.
Nevertheless, let's go ahead and create a release.
I do want to ensure that this new way that we have deployed
when it comes on to first, you know,
building everything within our Dockerfile
and just doing a simple build and a push also works.
Once it's complete, let's confirm.
Let me refresh my workload. It's fine.
Go onto services. It's fine.
Let's open the external ip address.
And we have our application in place.
So in this chapter, I'll show you
how you can have that multistage Dockerfile in place
and then do a simplified version maybe of that yaml file
when it comes onto building
and pushing an image onto the Azure container registry.

--- About Container jobs ---

(music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I want to go through container jobs.
Now up till point,
when we were looking at, you know,
building our application.
So let's take the case of us building our applications
on a Microsoft hosted agent, or even on self hosted agent.
Now our build runs inside a compute instance
and for us we only be running one build at a time.
Now if you're taking the case
of let's say a self-hosted agent,
you might be reusing that same infrastructure
for having multiple bills
of maybe multiple applications in place.
You might be having the required tools
that need to be installed.
So I said you might be having different applications
that would be building on the same machine.
If this is the case, there could be a scenario where in
because you need to install so many tools,
so many maybe you know, packages
on that same machine to help the building
of the different applications, there might be a conflict.
So you might want to isolate the build process
of each application.
In this case,
what you can do is you can make use of container jobs.
So here you are using the concept
of running everything within a container.
Now, don't confuse this with what we have done earlier on.
Earlier on, we were running an application
as a container within the image.
Your DevOps, Azure DevOps is providing you
the functionality of running your build within a container.
And I said, Why would they want to do this?
So I said, let's say you have a self hosted agent in place.
You have builds of multiple applications
running on the same machine.
So maybe you want to save on cost,
you don't have multiple self hosted agent.
Now each application, when it comes onto the build,
they might be requiring different tools
or packages to be installed.
And I told you, in case
if there is a conflict that's happening
between these packages because you might be having
different package versions
that need to be installed for each application.
You want to isolate the entire build process
on the same machine.
Well, welcome to containers again,
because with the use of containers
you can have that isolated environment.
So now your build can actually run
within containers on the machine itself.
And I said, don't confuse this
with having your .net application running as containers.
No.
Here, it is your entire job
that's running within a container
that's managed by Azure DevOps.
You can just have a normal application running
on that container job.
So in the next chapter,
let's look at an example on how we can accomplish this.

--- Working with Container jobs ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in this chapter
I wanna show you how you can make use of container jobs.
Now what I've done is for the Docker file
which I have as part of my SQL app Docker repository,
I did an edit and I put the basic steps
for just putting our published files
as part of the image that gets created.
This actually spun up a build.
I canceled that build.
I'm now going onto the SQL app Docker pipeline.
I'm gonna make changes
onto the existing right YAML file that we have.
So I pasted the changes.
Now one of the major changes
I am doing is I'm now having actually multiple stages
within my YAML file.
We had seen having multiple stages
within the release pipeline in the user interface.
But now within the YAML definition itself
I am creating multiple stages.
Under stages I have a build stage here
and if I scroll down, I have a deployment stage.
What am I doing within this build stage?
Well, I want to now build my project
because I don't have it as part of the Docker file.
I want to do a build and a publish.
I am doing now this build
and a publish within a container within my VM image.
So if you want to run steps within a container,
you have to give what is the name
of the base container that you want.
So now these tasks which I have here
this build task and this publish task,
it's going to run within this container.
And how do we know it's running within this container?
If it had to run within my Ubuntu latest VM
as it is without the container.
Remember, we need to add a task for installing .NET 6
but we are not doing it here,
and that's because everything is running
within this container
that already has the .NET 6 SDK in place.
So all we to do is to do a build and a publish.
Next, since we have multiple stages in place,
I want to publish that artifact staging directory
as an output onto the next stage.
We can now publish it on again onto our pipeline.
We were using a task earlier on
known as publish artifacts.
Actually, this publish is just a short form
of that particular task.
It's the same task.
It's going to make the build artifacts
available as part of the pipeline.
The name we are giving
again for the published artifact is here Build Artifacts.
This artifact is nothing
but the artifact name you are giving.
So to make everything available across your pipeline
make sure that you publish the artifacts
that need to be passed on.
And here we want to publish
or make the artifact run as part of the next stage.
Now in the deployment stage,
which is my Docker build
I first need to have the very important step
of downloading that build artifact
into the stage so that it can be used.
When I was actually trying to develop this YAML file,
this was a problem I had
when I was not downloading the build artifact.
So again, this took research
on trying to understand how do I build this end to end?
And please note that the steps
in this particular stage
are not running within the container
it's only running within the VM itself.
So as part of different stages
we can tell where it should run.
These tasks within the build stage are running
within my container on the virtual machine,
whereas these steps are running within the VM itself, right?
Our Ubuntu latest image here,
we're not specifying any container.
If I had to run the Docker task within this container,
it would not run
because this container by itself
does not have the capabilities
of running a Docker task.
This only has the capabilities
of having the .NET 6 SDK in place
which you can use
for building and publishing your application.
So try to keep all of this in mind.
You know as your building your pipelines,
where or what should use for running the pipelines itself?
So in this Docker task,
which is just running on the VM image itself,
I have all of the similar aspects.
So now next, if you want to reference
that build artifacts when it comes onto your SQL app.
This time, the variable, the inbuilt variable
you need to use when it comes
onto accessing those artifacts
as part of your pipeline is pipeline.workspace.
This is the inbuilt variable that you're going to use.
So actually just to make things
a little bit simpler for now,
I'll just remove the final step
when it comes onto the publishing of,
you know, onto the pipeline
when it comes onto Azure Kubernetes.
For now, let's see how this works.
Just as multiple stages
within this YAML kind of build file.
So let me go ahead and click on save.
I'll say using container jobs,
and let me click on save.
Now, if you go on to using the container jobs,
you can see multiple stages now in place.
It's first going on to the build stage.
Here, when you look at the visual representation
you have two stages in place
and within the stage it's going ahead
and now executing the job.
We have one job that is the build job
within the build stage that has all of these tasks.
And then within the deploy stage,
we'll have another job
which will have its own task.
Let's wait till this is complete.
So the build stage is complete,
it should now start with the deploy stage.
So it's going ahead with the deployment stage
and once the entire build is complete,
what I quickly did
is I spun up a new instance
based on the latest version of the image
which is available in that container registry.
That is based on our build.
And I just confirmed
that I have the application in the running state.
So in this chapter I wanna show you
how you can make use of container jobs now
when it comes onto your pipeline

--- Note - Publishing onto Azure Kubernetes.mp4 ---

-: Now just as an added step from our previous bill.
What I've done is, as part of my task,
I was able to access the app and service.yaml file
as part of the variable bill.sources directory,
by adding the manifest Kubernetes task here.
I then ran the pipeline,
and I confirmed that I have my application,
and I also have my services available.
So, if we go onto my service,
I can see it has an external IP address,
and it works as expected.
Normally, as part of the pipeline's ideal of experimentation
when it comes onto making artifacts available,
that may not be available as part of your pipeline,
in subsequent stages.
But, since I could still access my sources directory,
in terms of the build, I went ahead and added this task
of using the manifest file after the image is published
onto the Azure Container Registry.
So, now once all of this is complete,
I'm gonna go ahead and delete the resources
that are no longer required.
Let me go onto my resource groups.
I'll go onto docker grp.
This has my cluster
and has my registry.
I'll delete this resource group
because it is no longer required.
I'll go onto my other resource group, that's DevOps grp.
Also, I don't need now anything
because we are gonna be moving on to the next section
wherein we are gonna be building our infrastructure
via the use of code.
Even here, in order to save on cost,
I can choose to delete the resource group.
I choose ensuring that I don't bear any additional cost
when it comes onto my resources itself.

--- Quick Note on Technical Debt ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in this chapter, I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to technical debt.
Now, initially when you develop your application
you know you might be taking all of the right measures
in place to ensure that you have quality
in place for development of the application.
But then you know, after it is promoted to production,
when you start adding features, at that point in time,
because of time constraints, because of budget constraints,
developers may not have enough time
to incorporate quality when it comes
onto coding these additional features.
Now, because of this, you could be having code
that may not be structured in a particular way
might not be following the right standards.
And then over time, when developers want to start
making more and more changes onto the application
it could start becoming difficult to make these changes.
And this could be because of the quality of code
that was put in place
as part of the previous application changes,
it's not up to the mark.
Because obviously over time
if you don't look after the quality of your code
the maintainability of the code becomes difficult.
This can actually be tracked by the solar cloud tool.
When it comes on to maintainability,
it also keeps a track of the technical debt.
It has something known as code smells,
wherein it looks at code that is confusing
and difficult to maintain,
it can give you these sort of attributes.
So, something that it should also consider,
wherein using the code quality tool
to ensure that the technical debt does not increase
by your overall code base.
Just wanna kind of give this important note
when it comes onto code quality.

--- Note - When there are multiple builds ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter, I just wanna give a note
when it comes on to the deployment settings
for your pipeline.
You have one existing pipeline if I click on edit pipeline.
Here let's say for example
I go on to the pre-deployment conditions.
We have seen how we could have approvals in place,
how we can have gates in place.
There is something also known as deployment queue settings.
See, sometimes you might have multiple builds
triggered for your application at a time
or you could have another build
that is taking time to complete
and during the time, another build is triggered.
When you have multiple builds
that are coming on to your release pipeline,
you can first of all decide
what are the maximum number of power deployments
you want to have in place.
If you want to really deploy all of the builds one by one
or you might just have the requirement like you know,
you know, discard the old build.
Just take what is the most latest one
and deploy it onto the pipeline
and cancel all of the other builds.
This is something that you can actually control
via the deployment queue settings.
I just wanna kinda give this note
when it comes on to release pipelines.

--- About managing infrastructure ---

-: Now in the prior chapters
we had seen why the use of release pipelines,
how we could deploy our application on let's say
a set of Azure virtual machines or maybe an Azure web app.
At that point in time,
we had ensured that we had those resources already available
has part of our Azure account.
But obviously during the entire process of automation
especially when it comes on to deploying application
on a test infrastructure,
you might normally want to
have the creation of those resources
such as the Azure virtual machine,
the Azure Web app, et cetera,
part of the entire pipeline process.
You might not have the resources running beforehand
because you might want to save on cost
because if you have running resources
such as Azure virtual machines, Azure web apps
or Azure SQL database
and you have nothing running on them,
then it's just a waste of compute resources
and there's a cost associated
with having those compute resources in place.
So as part of your resource pipeline,
you might want to ensure that you also put the building
of your infrastructure in place.
When it comes onto your production based environment
you will always have the resources in place.
You will just have the deployment of your application
and the updates for your application
onto that infrastructure.
This is normally when you are building
and deploying applications
on let's say your test infrastructure.
So I told you when it comes onto your application,
you could have a very simple infrastructure
wherein you could have the application
if it's a web application
deployed on an Azure virtual machine,
which is behaving has a web server
and let's say you have a database engine
running on another Azure virtual machine,
or you may decide to use platform has a service
wherein you deploy the application on an Azure web app
and it connects onto an Azure SQL database.
So all of this, when it comes onto infrastructure,
there are some things that you have to consider.
Obviously, the first aspect is creating your infrastructure.
At points in time, you might need to make changes
onto the infrastructure itself.
So yes, you might have changes to your application
based on new features or updates
but at the same time, you might need changes
even onto your infrastructure as well.
For example, if you are deploying an application
on Azure virtual machine, maybe you need to change the size
of the VM to incorporate more load
when it comes onto your application
or other such infrastructure changes.
Also another important aspect
is replicating the same infrastructure changes
across multiple environments.
So when it comes on to large organizations,
when they're working with a critical application
or managing a critical application
they might be having a development environment in place,
a test environment in place,
a staging environment in place, and then production.
So for development, test and staging
they would have separate infrastructures in place
and they would want to at least
at some point in time
replicate a similar type of infrastructure
across these multiple environments.
And sometime when it comes
on to building your infrastructure
you might not document properly
How did you actually build the infrastructure
in the first place?
So here I'm just looking at a very simple example
where you might have an Azure web app
and an Azure SQL database.
When it comes onto a complex application
that has many interfaces onto other components,
this could get very complex in nature.
When it comes onto defining your infrastructure
you might have a lot of infrastructure components in place.
So that point in time,
you might consider the aspect which is available
of developing and deploying your infrastructure has code.
See, when we were deploying our Azure web app
or Azure SQL database or the Azure virtual machine
we were going on to the Azure portal
and building those resources.
But obviously you can also define your infrastructure
has code as well.
This is a facility that is available.
By having your infrastructure has code,
it helps you clearly define
how the infrastructure should look like.
You can also make changes onto your infrastructure easily
with the help of just changes onto the code file.
You can also version control the code file
that is usually define your infrastructure
and then you can also replicate your infrastructure
across multiple environments.
So if you have, let's say a development staging
and a production environment,
you can probably use the same infrastructure code file
to define the infrastructure
across all of these environments.
If you're coming from an AZ-204 background
or an AZ-104 background,
you'll already be familiar with infrastructure has code
and you might have heard of some of the tools
that are actually available
when it comes on to defining your infrastructure has code.
For example, when it comes on to Azure
they have tools such as ARM templates that you can build
and the newer version known as bicep
when you can actually declare code or define code
that can be used to deploy resources on the Azure platform.
Under the popular tool is also terraform
that helps you to basically define infrastructure has code.
And remember that you also have tools
that can be used for creating scripts
such as as Azure CLI and Azure powershell modules
that also give you the capabilities
of deploying your resources via the use of scripts.
Now obviously we're not gonna go into in-depth detail
when it comes on to usage of these tools.
I'm gonna show you examples first, just as quick revision
on how we can use ARM templates first
to deploy an Azure web app
and Azure SQL database and Azure virtual machine.
Just as a recap,
because you probably learned about ARM templates
when doing either AZ-104 or AZ-204.
The reason I'm showing the ARM templates
for an Azure web app and Azure SQL database
is because in the prior chapters
we had actually looked at our pipelines
on deploying an application onto an Azure web APP
and a database and a table and data within the tables
in the prior section itself.
I want to now go ahead
and simulate the deployment of the infrastructure.
So in the earlier chapters
we had manually built our infrastructure.
Now I want to build our infrastructure
via the use of these tools.
We're gonna look at how do we build this infrastructure
via the use of ARM templates, via the use of terraform
and also via the use of Azure CLI, just as an example
so that you get a better idea
on how we can use infrastructure has code
or even scripts for building our infrastructure.
Obviously it is impossible to go ahead
and cover all of the topics
when it comes onto ARM templates
or even biceps up or even terraform.
In fact, I have a complete course
on just terraform itself
when it comes onto working with Azure modules
because there's a lot that you can actually do
when it comes onto a tool,
which does infrastructure has code.
Here are the primary purpose
when it comes onto AZ-400
is to understand how do you incorporate
the use of such tools within your pipelines.
And that is what we are going to do.

--- About ARM templates ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now the first thing we are gonna look at
is the usage ARM templates within our pipeline.
First, I'll do a revision,
when it comes onto building ARM templates,
we look at an example of an Azure Web app
and Azure SQL Database and Azure virtual machines.
And then we'll see how to incorporate
the usage of ARM templates for an Azure web
and Azure SQL Database when it comes onto our pipelines.
So again, you can go ahead
and use ARM templates to define
your infrastructure as code.
You create something known as ARM template
or an Azure Resource Manager template.
This is actually a JavaScript object notation file
that actually contains the definition
of your infrastructure.
You can install your ARM template
in your source code repository
along with your application code.
Microsoft has also released a new language
called Bicep that has the same capabilities of ARM template.
Bicep just uses a syntax that's actually easier to use.
We are gonna be focusing on the usage of ARM templates.
If you go onto the documentation page
when it comes onto the structure of the ARM template,
you have the basic parts
of an Azure Resource Manager template.
Within the resources block,
you'll actually define the resources
that need to be created.
Use have parameters which allow you to dynamically
send out values onto your template.
I'm gonna be using Visual Studio Code
as my editor for building ARM templates.
In Visual Studio Code
you can actually install an extension.
I've already got that installed.
That's Azure Resource of Manager Tools.
This allows you to,
quickly create ARM templates within Visual Studio Code.
So again, if you don't have this editor in place
Visual Studio Code is a free download just to kind of help
in building ARM templates,
making use of Visual Studio Code.
You can go ahead and install the extension
of Azure Resource Manager Tools.
Now let's move on to the next chapter
wherein we'll build ARM template when it comes
onto an Azure Web app.

--- Lab - ARM Templates - Azure Web App ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in this chapter,
we will look at how do we deploy an Azure web app
via the use of an ARM template?
Now, when it comes onto the deployment of an Azure web app,
you actually need two resources to be in place.
One is the web app itself
and the other is the app service plan.
You know that an Azure web app
needs to be part of an app service plan.
Hence, in our ARM template,
we are gonna have the deployment of two resources.
One is the Azure web app
and the other is the app service plan.
When it comes onto the structure for the ARM template,
you should refer onto the Microsoft documentation.
Now, when it comes onto the resource type
for an app service plan,
it's actually Microsoft.Web/serverfarms,
and in another page,
I have the type for the Azure web app itself.
That's Microsoft.Web/sites.
I've gone onto the deployment reference page,
so when it comes onto ARM templates
for both of these resource types.
When it comes onto understanding
what is a deployment language you are choosing,
so I've chosen ARM template.
When you choose this and when you scroll down,
it'll have the entire resource format
when it comes onto an ARM template.
If we choose Terraform,
it'll show you what is a resource format
when it comes onto Terraform itself.
When you come onto the ARM template,
one very important note is the API version.
Currently, I'm using the current API version.
Depending upon the API version you choose,
there might be a slight change
when it comes onto the resource format
which is used for the deployment of the resource.
If we look at the resource format
for either of these resource types, so there's a lot
that comes onto what you can define as part of the resource.
As you know that when you deploy an Azure web app,
there are so many things that you can actually configure
for an Azure web app itself.
And the entire idea is you should be able
to deploy all of that features as part of the Azure web app
when you are deploying an ARM template.
That is why you have all of these features
that can be defined as an ARM template.
We're gonna make ours very, very simple.
We don't want to complicate the definition
when it comes onto our Azure web app
or our app service plan.
I'm gonna go onto my first resource type.
That is for serverfarms.
This is for the deployment of an app service plan.
I'm gonna scroll down.
So we have the definition in place
when it comes onto the app service plan.
I'm gonna go onto Visual Studio.
I've just opened an empty folder on my C drive.
It's a template folder.
I don't have anything within the folder.
So I went onto File. I clicked on Open Folder.
I then chose an empty folder within my C drive.
You can do the same thing.
If you can't create a folder on your C drive,
then open it on your D drive.
I'll create a new file here.
I'll choose New File.
I'll just name this as template01.json.
Now if you've installed
that ARM template extension from the marketplace,
if you just type in ARM and do a tab on your keyboard,
you will get the default structure
when it comes onto your ARM template.
Next, I'll define the resource I want to create.
If you want, you can choose the type from here,
but I'll go back onto the documentation.
Let me take the first four, basically, attributes
of what we want to define for this resource,
so when it comes onto the app service plan.
So we have the type, the API version,
the name, and the location.
In terms of the name, so let me give a unique name
when it comes onto the Azure web app.
Please ensure that you change the name accordingly.
When it comes onto the resource,
you can put the location of the resource
at a Central US, East US, North Europe.
Depends upon the location for your resource.
I'm gonna use an in-built function that's available,
wherein we can use what is the location
of our resource group.
So this function will automatically evaluate
onto the location of the resource group
in which this resource is deployed.
I want to next define this queue.
So scroll down here, just defining this queue.
In this queue, we can specify a name of F1.
This indicates that we want to use the free tier
when it comes onto the app service plan.
This should be fine by us,
and we can provide something known as a capacity
of just one.
And this should be good enough
when it comes onto the deployment for the app service plan.
Next is the deployment of the Azure web app itself.
I'll go onto the next tab,
which has the definition for the web app.
Again, I'll take the type,
the API version, the name, and the location.
Let's place it here.
Again for the location, I'll do the same thing.
I'll take the resource group here.
In terms of the name of the web app,
again, we have to give a unique name.
I'm gonna look at defining now the properties
for this Azure web app.
In terms of the properties,
so if I go onto the property section here,
there is something known as the server ID farm,
which is important.
So let me copy this.
Place it here.
The server ID farm is actually the resource ID.
So we have another function, in-built function,
when comes onto ARM template.
That is the resource ID.
See, since our Azure web app
is gonna be part of our app service plan,
we have to link both of these resources together.
In the resource ID,
we have to give what is the resource type
and next what is the resource name.
In terms of the resource type,
this is the resource type, I'll just copy it.
Place it here.
And what is the name of the resource? That's the plan here.
I'm also gonna add something known as a dependsOn clause.
Here, we're just trying to say that
this Azure web app has a dependency on the app service plan.
So we should tell Azure,
please ensure to first create the app service plan
before you create this Azure web app.
In the dependsOn,
we can again mention what is the resource ID.
So I can just copy this.
And place it here.
Another thing that I'm gonna do is,
when it comes onto my app service plan,
I need to also define properties.
So this will be after this queue.
In terms of the properties,
I just have to mention again
what's gonna be the name of our app service plan.
This is fine.
Similarly, here in the properties,
let me define the name
and it's gonna be the name of our Azure web app.
Let me save this.
Now you could deploy your ARM template.
So I'll just copy all of this.
You could deploy your ARM template
via the use of PowerShell.
You can do it from Visual Studio Code itself
or you could also use Azure.
Now, in Azure, for deployment of these resources,
I'm gonna create a new resource group.
So I'll go onto resource groups.
Let me create a new resource group known as Template GRP.
I'll choose North Europe as my location.
Go onto View and Create.
And we go ahead and hit on Create
to have this resource group in place.
I'll now hit on Creating a Resource.
I'll choose Template.
Choose Template Deployment.
Hit on Create.
Just hide this.
I'll build my own template in the editor.
I'll replace all of this code
with the code I have in Visual Studio Code itself.
I'll click on Save.
I'll choose my new resource group.
Yeah, it is taking now the location of my resource group.
And since in our code in the location,
we use the function of resource group,
hence now, both of our resources
are going to be deployed in North Europe,
which is the same location as our resource group.
I'll go onto Review and Create.
And let me go ahead and hit on Create.
So now here we are deploying a code file,
which is telling Azure
on what resources we need to be deployed
as part of a resource group within our Azure subscription.
Once this is complete,
if I go onto the resource group,
if I scroll down,
currently, I can only see the app service plan in place.
Just take some time. You have to click on Refresh.
After waiting for a minute, let me click on Refresh again,
and I can see my web app also in place.
So in this chapter, want to get started
with how do you develop an ARM template
that can be used for deploying an Azure web app
and an app service plan?

--- Lab - ARM Templates - Azure SQL database ---

(upbeat music)
Lecturer: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapter, we had built an ARM template
for the deployment of an Azure web app.
In this chapter let's look at an ARM template
that can be used for the deployment
of an Azure SQL database.
Now, when it comes again onto the deployment
of an Azure SQL database
we need to have two resources in place.
First is the deployment of the Azure SQL database server
that is used for hosting the SQL database
and the next resource is a SQL database itself.
When it comes onto the resource types
I'm gonna be using Microsoft dot SQL servers when it comes
onto the Azure SQL database server.
And the other one is the databases type itself
for defining a Azure SQL database.
Now again, when you want to understand what are
the resource types for the different resources.
What you can do is you can actually take a reference
from the resource itself.
If I go onto let's say the app service plan
that we had deployed in the prior chapter
every resource has properties.
If you go onto the properties
here if you scroll down in terms of the resource ID,
let me copy this onto the clipboard.
I'll put a notepad.
You will see the provider that is basically the resource
type for this particular resource.
This will actually give you an idea on what is
a type you should search for in the documentation.
So what you can do is you can first manually
deploy the resource and then you can search
for the resource type accordingly.
Right, so going back, I said the first thing is to
deploy a SQL server.
In Visual Studio Code, I'll go and close this.
Let me create a new JSON based file.
This will be for the deployment now
of a Azure SQL database resource.
Again, I'll do ARM and a tab.
I can just go ahead and hide all of this.
I wanted to find resources.
Again, there will be two resources.
One is for the SQL server and the other is for the database.
Let's go back here.
I'll take again the type, the API version, the name
and the location.
Let me place it here.
So we have the API version.
In terms of the name, let me give a unique name,
and in terms of the location, we'll do the same thing.
I'll take the resource group location.
I'll just copy this.
And let's place it here.
Apart from this, I want to define the properties,
in the properties.
So if I go onto the documentation, we have the properties.
I need to specify what is the ad administrator login
and password.
This actually helps us to log into the database server.
I copy it and place it here.
We can define our administrator login
and the password to be taken as parameters.
Hence, for our template, let me go ahead
and define some parameters onto the parameters section.
I'll define one for the SQL login.
This is gonna be off the type string.
I'll just add some metadata
where I can just put a description saying,
the administrator username, and I'll add one more parameter.
This will be for the password.
I'll put this as a SQL password,
the administrative password.
So we'll accept these values at run time.
I can define this as a secure string
because this is gonna be a password
that we're gonna pass in.
And then if I scroll down, I can replace this by taking it
as a parameter or taking it from the parameter section.
The name of my parameter is SQL Login.
I'll do the same thing here,
take it from the parameters.
And this time I'll take the SQL password.
Right, so we have this in place.
This is one resource.
The next resource we need is our SQL database.
Again here, let me take the type
the API version and the location, place it here.
The API version.
Let me give a name for the database.
Has app db and for the location.
Okay, let's take it from the resource group.
I'm gonna define the skew for the database
which is also available.
In terms of the skew
I'm gonna be using the basic skew that is available.
This is the least cost option apart from the skew.
I need to mention properties as well
which is gotta be empty
but this is still required to be defined.
And then I'll add the depends on attribute.
Since this Azure SQL database has a dependency
on our SQL database server.
Choose resource ID, we need to specify what is the type
and what is the name.
I'll scroll on top.
Let me take the type and let me take the name
specify it here.
Now when it comes onto the name of the database,
in addition to providing just the name
of the database itself, we also need to append it
with our database server.
The way we're gonna do this is we're gonna be
using the format function that's available
when it comes onto ARM template.
So I'm specifying two placeholders here
zero and one.
Place a comma here.
Zero is going to be appended with the name
of my SQL database server
and one is gonna be appended with the name of my database.
So I'll take my SQL server name and place it here.
So this is important.
This is how you'll actually format the name
of the database itself.
Once have all of this in place.
Let me save this and let's copy this.
I'll again create a new resource,
choose the template deployment, hit on create
build my own template in the editor, replace all of this
click on save, choose my resource group.
Yeah, you can see
we can mention what is the SQL login and password.
And since we had put this has a secure string.
It's taking it as a secure string.
When it comes onto the password, go onto review and create.
So we are getting a validation error.
Let me go back here.
So I just forgot the slash here.
This is important in terms of the separation
between the server name and the database name.
I'll save this again, I can go back onto previous
edit the template and make the change here as well.
Scroll down, click on save again,
choose my resource group
mention the login and the password.
Let's go onto view and create again.
And now it's fine.
Let me go ahead and hit on create
and let's come back once the creation process is complete.
Now, once the deployment is complete
if I go onto the resource group
so I should be seeing four resources in place.
I have my SQL database, our previous app service plan
and our Azure web app, and these SQL database server itself.
So we now have all four resources
part of this resource group.
Now, in the next chapter, I'll just show you ARM template
for the deployment of an Azure virtual machine.
Then in the subsequent chapter, so up till now
I just been doing a revision on how we can deploy resources
via an ARM template.
In the later on chapters
will take this example of ARM template when it comes
onto the deployment of an Azure web app
and an Azure SQL database and then put it in our pipeline.
We now wanna see if we don't have these resources in place
how can we deploy now our resources
why the use of ARM templates and why the use of pipelines.
Currently, I am just showing you the basic exercise
of how do we deploy our resources.
Why the use of ARM templates?

--- Lab - ARM Templates - Azure virtual machines ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter,
I just want to do a quick revision
when it comes onto the ARM template
for an Azure virtual machine.
And that's because there's a lot that's actually employed
when it comes onto the deployment of an Azure VM.
Do you remember
that when coming from an AZ-104 and AZ-204 background,
when you looked at the deployment
of an Azure virtual machine,
there's a lot of aspects that you need to consider.
First of all, the Azure virtual machine
needs to be part of a virtual network.
That means if you deploy this as a separate resource,
within the virtual network,
you'll have different subnets in place,
subnet A and subnet B.
You'll have a network interface
that is gonna be attached onto the virtual machine.
You can have a public IP address
that is attached onto the network interface.
This is when it comes onto traffic from the internet
coming into the Azure virtual machine.
You can have an additional data disk
that can be used for storing data on the Azure VM.
You can have an Azure storage account
that is used for boot diagnostics
for the Azure virtual machine.
And you can have a network security group
that is, let's say, attached onto a subnet.
I just quickly built an ARM template
that has the deployment of all of these resources.
So I've just added that code here itself.
It's template03.json.
In my resources here,
I first have the deployment of my Azure virtual network.
I'm giving the name of the network.
In the properties,
I mentioned what should be the address space
when it comes onto this network itself.
I'm then defining two subnets.
Subnet A, which has its own address prefix.
And here in the ID of the network security group,
I am saying, please attach a network security group,
which I'm creating later, onto the subnet itself.
I'm then declaring subnet B,
which is gonna be an empty subnet.
I won't deploy anything in the subnet itself.
But just showing you that you can have multiple subnets
deployed as part of your Azure virtual network.
Then I have the public IP address.
This is gonna be attached onto the network interface.
I have the deployment
of the network interface resource itself.
In the IP configuration,
I'm mentioning what is the public IP address
that needs to be attached onto this network interface
and what is the ID of the subnet.
So this network interface needs to be launched
in this particular subnet.
And then I have the dependsOn clause as well.
And then I have the deployment of an Azure storage account,
which can be used for boot diagnostics for the Azure VM.
I have the definition of a network security group,
in which I have one rule to allow traffic on port 3389.
And then I have the deployment
of the Azure virtual machine itself.
Yeah, it has a dependency on the storage account.
I'm specifying what should be the size
of the Azure virtual machine.
What should be the username and password
to log in to the machine.
It's based on Windows Server 2019 Data Center.
It has an OS disk.
It has an additional data disk.
And in the network profile,
I'm attaching the network interface.
And here for the storage UI,
this is required for boot diagnostics.
So this is a quick revision
when it comes onto the ARM template
for the deployment of an Azure virtual machine.
And again, I can copy all of this.
Here, let me go onto creating a new resource.
I'll choose again Template Deployment.
Hit on Create.
Build my own template in the editor.
Replace all of this.
Click on Save.
Choose my resource group.
Go onto Review and Create.
And let me go ahead and hit on Create.
It'll take around three to four minutes.
So as we're just doing a quick revision,
we're actually gonna be focusing more
on how do we use the templates we had seen earlier on
when it came onto the deployment
of the Azure web app and the Azure SQL database?
Because I'm gonna be using those as examples
when it comes onto our further chapters
when it comes onto Azure pipelines.
I suggest as a quick revision
when it comes onto the deployment of an Azure VM.
I want to make sure that we have the capabilities
of deploying an Azure VM via the use of an ARM template.
Once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto Azure virtual machines,
I can see my app VM in place.
What I'm gonna do now
is I'm gonna go onto my resource group that I have.
I'll delete the resource group
because I want to delete all of my resources.
This first set of chapters were just as a revision
when it comes onto ARM templates.
We are gonna look at further aspects
when it comes onto ARM templates
and then also look at how we can use it
within Azure pipelines.
So for the moment, I'm gonna go ahead
and delete this resource group
so that all of the resources are deleted.
And I'll recreate the resource group again
so that we have an empty resource group
with no resources in place.
So I said first, I'll delete the resource group.
The easiest way to go ahead and delete your resources.
And once this is done,
I'll go ahead and recreate the resource group again.
Right, so this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Modularize templates ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now before we can look at
how to use ARM Templates as part of Azure Pipelines,
I want to go through nested and linked ARM templates
because it's part of the exam objectives.
Now in our case,
when it came on to building the ARM Template,
it's quite simple.
We don't have that many resources in place.
But sometimes if your application architecture,
your infrastructure, is quite complex in nature,
wherein you have a lot of resources that need to be deployed
it could sometimes become, you know,
difficult from a maintainability perspective
to put all of the resources within one template itself.
You could consider actually breaking your template
into multiple pieces.
And you can do this with the help of either
creating a nested or a linked template.
In a nested template, you define the resources,
the nested resources within the template itself.
So I'll show you an example on this.
Or another way is to define your resources
within another template itself,
and then link it in the parent template.
Now, by having linked templates,
you now have the concept of modules in place
wherein, you know, you could have some core resources
that need to be deployed
in multiple application environments.
So you could define that in one template,
and then reference that template
in multiple parent templates itself.
Now before we go on to nested and linked templates,
just a quick note when it comes onto deployment modes.
When you deploy a template,
there are some deployment modes in place.
You have the incremental mode.
Here, the resources within the template are deployed.
It does not interfere with other resources
that are defined in the resource group
which are not defined in the template.
See, in our case, we had one resource group Template GRP.
We were then using a template, let's say,
to deploy an Azure web app and an Azure app service plan
within that resource group.
By default, this is not going to interfere
with other resources within the resource group
that are not defined in the template.
So let's say we already had resources
within that resource group.
The incremental mode will ensure that it does not tamper
or do anything with other resources
within that resource group.
Whereas, if you do the complete mode,
here, only the resources defined within the template
will be defined in the resource group.
If there are other resources within the resource group
that are not managed by the ARM Template,
they will be deleted.
When it comes on to nested and linked templates,
the only mode that is available is the incremental mode.
Now, let's go on to seeing examples
when it comes onto nested and linked templates...

--- Lab - Nested template ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, just as an example
when it comes on to nested templates,
so it's like one template within another.
First of all, let me create a new template file here.
I wanna now combine the deployment
of my Azure web app and my a Azure SQL database
within one template itself.
As the main template, let's have it has the deployment
of my Azure web app.
So I'll go on to 01.JSON.
Let me copy all of this onto here.
Just close this.
This is for my deployment of the Azure web app.
So in Azure, what I've done is
I've created a fresh new resource group, template GRP.
Currently in this resource group
I don't have any resources in place.
We have the definition when it comes onto our resources
for the Azure web app.
After the deployment of the web app itself,
let me add another resource block.
This going to be for the internal deployment
of our Azure SQL database.
I need to mention a type here.
The type is going to be Microsoft.resources/deployments.
I'm gonna add an API version for this.
I'll give a name for this template.
So I'll call this as child template.
In the properties, let me define some properties.
The first thing we'll define is the mode.
I told you this can only be an incremental mode
when it comes on to nested or link template deployments.
And then next, I have the template itself.
In this template block,
let me go onto the template deployment
where I have the deployment of my Azure SQL database
and the database server.
I'll copy the schema and the content version.
Let's place it here.
And then after that, I can directly put my resources block.
Let me scroll down, take my entire resources block.
Let me place it here so it's defined.
So I have the resources block in place.
What I'll do is, let me just make a change
onto the server name.
Just a quick change.
Let me scroll on top.
I need to also define my parameters.
So I can take the parameters block
and we can place this in our main parent template itself,
this is fine.
So what we're doing here is we're just putting
the definition of a nested resource,
that is our Azure SQL database,
within our main parent deployment resource itself.
One more thing that I'll do, let me just hide this
before I copy it.
So we have the new server that we have defined here.
Let me ensure that also in the depends on
I make this change.
Now let me copy all of this onto Azure.
Let me create a new resource.
And we'll choose template deployment.
Hit on create, build my own template in the editor.
Let me paste all of this.
I'll click on save.
I'll choose my resource group.
Specify this SQL login and the password.
Go on to review and create.
So the validation has passed.
Let me go ahead and hit on the create button.
Now let's come back once the deployment is complete.
So during the deployment itself
you can see we have the Azure web app in place.
We'll have the Azure app service plan also in place.
And now it is going ahead and deploying the child template.
And the child template has the definition
when it comes onto our Azure SQL database server,
and the Azure SQL database itself.
And after some time you'll see the deployment is complete
if you go onto the resource group.
Currently I can only see my app service
and the app service plan in place.
After you refresh a minute or so,
you should be able to see the Azure SQL database as well.
So after just waiting for a minute
and clicking on the refresh button
I can see the SQL database also in place.
So all we've done here is we have deployed one template
within another while the use of nested templates.

--- Lab - Linked template ---

(upbeat music)
-: So, in the last chapter,
we had looked at how we could deploy many resources
via the use of a nested template.
In this chapter, let's look at an example
of using link templates.
So again, we'll go ahead with the deployment
of our Azure Web App, the AppSource plan,
and Azure SQL database.
In my template GRP resource group,
let me delete the resources
because I'm going to recreate them again
via the use of a link template.
In Visual Studio Code,
let me create a new folder,
and within this folder,
let me create a main.json file.
This will be like our parent template
in which we'll be having our primary resources.
In this, let take the example
of having the deployment of our Azure Web App in place
in this primary template.
I'll again do an ERM and a tab
to have the default template structure in place.
Let me copy the resources tab
for deploying my App Service plan and the web app.
So, I'll place it in the resources section,
this does not change.
Let me now create within this link templates folder
another JSON file,
this will be for the deployment of a SQL database.
And let me copy the template we had seen earlier on
when it came onto the deployment
of the Azure SQL server and the SQL database
this is like a separate template on its own.
I'll copy all of this and let me place it
in the SQL database.json file.
So we have the parameters in place
and we have our resources in place.
Yeah, let me just quickly change the SQL server
onto a different value.
One of the reasons why I am changing the SQL server name is,
sometimes I do face a problem when I try to deploy
the same Azure SQL server again.
If I probably do this after some time,
then I can probably recreate that SQL server
but immediately after deleting the Azure SQL server,
and if I try to recreate it again with the same name,
I normally run into an issue
wherein it does not get created,
it actually takes forever to go ahead with the creation
of that Azure SQL database server.
And since I'm doing this very frequently,
that's why I go ahead and just change the server name.
So, this is my experience
when I'm trying to create the SQL server
via the use of the ERM template.
You may not face a similar issue,
but since I want to go ahead
with the creation of resources,
that's why I'm just making a small modification
when it comes onto the server name itself.
So let's make sure to save the file.
Now in my main.json file,
I want to link this SQL database.json file
as a linked template.
Again here, if I scroll down,
this is after the resource deployment
for the Azure Web App,
it's like we are creating, again, another resource block.
The type is again going to be
microsoft.resources/deployments
are given API version
or given name.
I'll mention the properties.
In terms of the properties,
again the mode is going to be incremental
and I need to mention something known as the template link.
Where is my template located?
For the purpose of the template link,
I'm actually going to upload my SQL database.json file
onto an a Azure storage account
because you are going to mention a URI
when it comes onto the template itself
so we need to have some place
where we have the template uploaded already.
For this, I'm gonna make used often Azure storage account.
Hence in my template GRP resource group,
I'm gonna create a new resource.
I can search for storage account.
So I'll choose the storage account service
and we can always go ahead
and create a new resource from here as well.
I'll choose create,
I'll choose that resource group.
I'll just give a unique name for all the storage account.
I'll choose the location as well, scroll down,
choose locally redundant storage
because I don't need redundancy for now.
Let me go directly onto review and create.
Let me hit on create, let's come back.
Once you have the storage account in place,
once you have the storage account in place
I'll go onto resource
I'm gonna choose containers
and let me create a new container.
I'll name this as templates.
Just for now I'm gonna choose
the public access level as blob anonymous access
and hit on create
so that we have anonymous access
onto the blobs that we store within this container.
I'll go onto the templates container.
I'm gonna upload that SQL database.json file
from my local system.
Once I have this in place, I'll go onto the file,
I'll copy the URL
and then I'll place it here in the template link.
I'm going to mention a property of the URI
and then here I can mention that entire link.
So basically
it's my storageaccount.blog.co.windows.net/template,
the name of my container
and the name of my JSON file, basically my template.
I also need to mention what is a content version.
So I'll mention that accordingly.
Here now if I copy the entire content
when it comes on to main.json
and let me place it here, let me click on save,
I'll choose my resource group, my region,
I'll go onto review and create.
so it's doing a final validation.
Now in the validation, I'm getting an error
because it's saying the value
for the template parameter SQL login is not provided.
Remember for our SQL database.json file.
So, I've opened the file up
and remember it's within our templates container,
our SQL database.json file.
We have two parameters
that we need to specify values for the SQL login
and the SQL password.
When we are doing our deployment on the previous screen,
it was not giving us the chance
to actually mention the values for those parameters.
Now we have kind of a link template,
so our main template is actually referencing
a link template.
So how can we specify the values for those parameters?
Well, there are a couple of ways we can go about doing this.
The way we are gonna do this is,
we are gonna create another JSON file
in our links template folder
this is going to be for our SQL database parameters.
You can always also have a generic parameters file.
Here I'm gonna paste in the code
for the values of those parameters.
So I have schema, the content version parameters,
and what are the names of the parameters
and what are their values?
I'll go ahead and save this.
Let me upload this also onto my container.
So I'll go onto the templates container,
click on upload.
I will upload that SQL database parameters JSON file,
hit on upload here.
If I go onto my main template file now here,
apart from mentioning what is the template link,
I can also mention something known as the parameters link.
Hence, if you have your parameters,
the values for the parameters define somewhere else,
you can specify again the URI
and I need to mention also the content version again,
so I'll copy this, place it here.
What is the URI?
Again, pretty simple
go onto the parameters file
take the URI, copy it onto the clipboard,
paste it here.
I'll just save all of this.
Let me copy this.
Let's go back onto our custom deployment.
So, I'll edit the template,
delete this based in my new template code,
click on save, choose my resource group,
go onto review and create.
Now the validation has passed
and let me go ahead and hit on create.
Again, it'll do the deployment of your resources
but here the main difference is that
we have our SQL database,
that definition in a separate template
and we have the deployment
of our Azure Web App in a separate template
I'm just linking them together.
Let's come back once this is complete.
And notice in time you can see the deployment is complete.
Again, if you go onto your template GRP resource group,
you can see the three resources in place
and then shortly you'll also see
your Azure SQL database also in place.
So, in this chapter we have seen
how we could work with link templates.

--- Lab - Release pipelines - ARM Templates ---

(funky intro music)
-: Now, in the prior chapters, we had looked
at ARM templates that can be used to deploy
an Azure Web App and an Azure SQL database.
We had done that to our template GRP Resource Group.
Just hitting on refresh, I'm gonna delete my resources,
except for this template store,
in which we have our template files in place.
Let me go ahead and just delete these resources.
Now, let's incorporate these ARM templates
within our release pipeline.
So, in my release pipeline, earlier on
we always had our resources in place.
This time let's make use
of our ARM templates within our release pipeline.
The release pipeline I'm gonna be using
is a SQL app pipeline.
This is used to deploy a web application
onto an Azure web app and also make changes
by adding a table and data within a database.
If I click on edit just to refresh our memory,
we had one stage, one job.
We had three tasks.
The first task was, if you remember, to create
it was an inline script to create a table,
a products table and insert data into the table.
The next task was to pick up our web application
and deploy it onto an Azure web app.
And then we had some configuration settings.
If I scroll down, we add the connection strings.
I now want to add the deployment
of our ARM templates within this pipeline.
And again, just for recollection sake,
the build pipeline is also the same
which actually triggers this release pipeline.
Nothing different here, it is taking the build
of our project and then publishing it as an artifact
which will then be given onto our release pipeline.
There's no change we're making here.
The main thing is within our release pipeline.
So, what I'll do first is,
I'm gonna go onto my storage account,
onto the containers, onto templates
and let me also upload my main dot JSON file.
So I can have now all of my templates situated here itself.
Let me upload my main dot JSON file.
Let me ensure that it is saved, yes.
Go back here.
Let's upload the main dot JSON file.
Okay, we have this in place.
Now let me go onto my pipeline.
Let me add a new task.
I'll search for ARM.
There is a task of ARM template deployment.
I'll click on add.
Let me make sure it's the first task.
Let's go and configure this task.
Here, I'll choose my subscription.
Scroll down.
The action is to create or update a resource group.
I'll choose template GRP.
It's asking for the location of my script file.
Yeah, in the location I'll choose North Europe.
Now we have the template.
The template could either be
an artifact that could be published onto the pipeline
or it could be a URL of a file.
So for now, I'll choose the URL of a file,
in terms of the entire template link.
So I'll go onto my templates.
I can go here as well onto main dot JSON.
Let me copy the URL of the main dot JSON file
and let's place it here.
So, this is now going to first call our main dot JSON file
and our main dot JSON file is where we gonna call our
SQL database dot JSON file.
The deployment mode is incremental.
I'm leaving everything as it is.
What are the changes I'm gonna be making?
Which I normally do.
So I said if I go on templates,
I'll just go onto my SQL database,
go onto to edit and make the change here.
When it comes onto the server name,
let me also copy server name quickly here.
So I'll go down, change it here,
go down, change it here.
I said for you it might work,
but for me I'm just trying to keep it safe.
Let me click on save.
I'll go onto my pipeline.
When I go onto my table creation
I need to change the server name
or this is gonna fail because
our ARM template is deploying an Azure SQL server
with a particular name.
And don't worry, I'm gonna show you a way
in which you can actually pass the name
from the ARM template deployment
onto the subsequent task,
because obviously you don't want to kind of
change a hard code, the values within your task.
Well, there is a facility where you can actually
pass down the values in your task.
For now, I first wanna show the basic thing
of how you incorporate the deployment
of your resources via an ARM template.
Scroll down and do I need to change anything else?
So this is fine.
Yeah, also, let me go onto the firewall.
I'm gonna choose an IP address.
See, when you deploy an Azure SQL database
I told that please allow Azure services by default.
So, when you create the SQL database in the visit
you have the facility of saying
that please allow Azure Services to access this database.
It's like having a firewall rule in place.
When we wanna ensure the same thing is also done here
while the use of the pipeline.
For this, I'm going to put
the start IP address as 0.0.0.0.
And the same for the end IP address.
I'll uncheck this.
Let me click on save.
Let me go onto my Azure web app.
I need to change here.
If I go onto my templates,
onto my main dot JSON file, onto edit.
So what is the web app name we are creating?
I'll copy this and let me place it here.
I'll just click on save again.
I'll go onto the app service settings,
I need to change the app service name here.
I'll just write template GRP.
That's my resource group.
And I'll scroll down.
If I just quickly go onto my templates again,
onto SQL database, onto edit,
just take the name of my server, scroll down.
Remember, we have to also change it here
in the connection strings.
So you have to know where are all the references
when it comes onto your database.
Once this also is in place, let me go and click on save.
So with everything now part of our pipeline,
the first task is now gonna create our resources
because in another tab, if I go onto my template
GRP dot resource group, right?
I don't have those resources in place.
The only thing that I do have is the storage account.
I'm gonna now just directly create a release
so that we can see this pipeline in action.
Let me hit on create, a release is now in place.
Let's come back once the release is complete.
And after some time when I come back,
I can see the deployment is complete.
If I go onto my template GRP resource group,
if I hit on refresh, I can see my resources in place.
If I go onto the app service,
if I take my URL,
if I take the URL of the Azure web app
and I go onto a new tab,
I can see it is fetching data from my Azure SQL database.
So it's a same web application
which is picking up data from Azure SQL database,
the same pipeline we had seen before.
The only difference now is we have
all of the deployment of our resources done,
while the use of an ARM template.
We don't have to create the resources beforehand.
Right, so this marks the end of this chapter
wherein we have looked at how we can use an ARM template
in our pipeline for the deployment of our resources.

--- What happens if we run the pipeline again ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: Now, in the prior chapter,
we had seen how we could incorporate
the use of ARM templates within our pipeline.
Now, let's say that the pipeline runs again.
We make a change onto our repository.
If I go onto my repose,
this is actually my SQL Secure repository,
I can go onto my pages,
and let me make a change onto the index page.
Click on Edit.
So currently it is version one.
Let me just quickly put it as version two
and hit on Commit.
So let's save application version two, hit on commit
this should first, obviously first trigger.
So if I go onto my pipeline here,
a build pipeline that is SQL App secure,
and shortly enough,
it should go ahead and trigger a release.
A release of my SQL App pipeline.
So currently it's release number nine.
So let's wait till this is complete.
Let's see what happens.
I mean, now in our pipeline,
we have the ARM template deployment task in place,
and then we have our subsequent task.
Now, normally what should happen is,
when it comes onto the ARM template,
it should only see that those resources are in place.
It will not go ahead and deploy those resources again.
So that task should be pretty fast and then it will go ahead
with the remaining task as normal.
So let's come back once this is complete.
Now I've come back after some time.
Now my build pipeline ran perfectly well.
When it came onto my release pipeline,
actually my release then it actually failed,
and I'm not sure the reason why.
If I go onto the logs it's saying
that the server was not available.
But the server is actually part
of our template GRP resource group.
And when I rerun the pipeline,
so I got a new release, release 11,
and that time it worked out fine.
And if I refresh this page,
I should be seeing version two of my application, right?
So that is in place.
So not sure why the pipeline failed the first time around
when it came onto the server name
even though it is already present.
But I wanna show you what happens when you actually
run your pipeline again.

--- Lab - Release pipelines - Deleting resources ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I just wanna showcase one way
in which you can delete your resources
as part of your pipeline.
So currently as part of our release pipeline
we have tasks in place,
wherein first the deployment of our resources
is going as part of our deployed test environment stage.
And then we have the other task in place.
Let's say you're gonna have another stage here
which is deployment to let's say your staging environment.
Unless you want to recreate resources
in let's say a staging GIP resource group
or probably somewhere else in another subscription.
You first want to go ahead
and delete the resources that have been deployed
as part of this particular stage.
So let's say everything is in place, it has been deployed
testing is now been conducted,
and after two days testing is complete,
they now want to move on to the next stage
and deploy probably the same type of resources
onto a steady environment.
But they want to ensure that they delete the resources
that they will create as part of this particular stage.
Let's show you one way
in which we can go ahead and accomplish this.
Now here I have a script file
that we can go and use for the deletion of the resources.
I'm using simple Azure CLI commands.
The command I'm using is 'az resource delete'.
I'm giving what is the name of my resource group.
What is the name of the resource itself.
So I have four commands.
The first one is for deleting my SQL database.
The other one is for the SQL server.
This for the web app
and the other is for the app service plan.
I have to give what is the resource type.
Again, if you want to get the resource type
I told you how I can actually go about doing this.
Go on to the resource itself.
So for example, I'm on SQL server here.
The SQL server should be having properties.
If you go onto it, if you scroll down in the resource ID
you can actually copy the resource ID onto the clipboard,
a notepad copied
and you'll be having your resource type here itself.
So you can go and take the resource type
for your individual resources.
I just need to change what is the server name
that I have mentioned?
That's a SQL server name.
I'll copy this and let's place it here
Right? So that should be fine.
If you go onto your pipeline.
Here, let's say we create another stage.
So I'll go onto editing my pipeline.
So in the pipeline, let me add a new stage.
This is after deployed test environment.
I'll just put an empty job.
I'll say deploy to staging.
Let me click on save, click on OK.
So here I'm saying that once the deployment
onto the test environment is complete,
then start the deployment onto the staging environment.
You can also probably have another stage,
maybe a cleanup stage,
and then have the other stage of deployed to staging.
We can add a task here in the agent job.
I can add an Azure CLI task.
I'll click on add.
I'll go to it.
The name is 'clean up test environment'.
I'll choose my connection.
Here let's make sure the script type is PowerShell.
I'll do an inline script and let me paste everything here.
Let me click on save.
And then you can add other tasks for the deployment
of your application onto your staging environment.
By go back onto my pipeline, you can have now
a post deployment condition
wherein you have an approval in place.
So let me put an approval.
What we're trying to see here is, let me click on save...
Close this.
So I'm saying that once deployment is complete
and all testing is conducted, an approval should be sorted
before going on to the next stage.
Because in this particular stage
the first task is to delete all
of the resources that were deployed
as part of the prior stage.
Let me go ahead and quickly just create a release
and let's come back.
Once the release is complete,
within the deploy to test environment stage.
Now once a deployment onto the test environment is complete
so it's saying pending approval.
So in another tab I logged in as DOC user 1.
Go onto the releases.
Click on 'deploy onto test environment'.
Let me put it as approved and click on approve here.
This should now trigger the deployment
onto our staging environment.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto my template GIP resource group,
if I hit on refresh...
So I have my storage account in place
I have my database also in place.
But often time when you click on refresh
you should not be seeing that resource anymore.
So now you've added another task which can go ahead
and delete your resources once they are no longer required.

--- Quick note on deployment to multiple environments ---

(upbeat music playing)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I just want to give a quick note.
So, I've got this question prior from students
where it comes on to deployment of the application
onto multiple environments.
So I told you, in organizations, you could be having
a separate test environment in place,
a steady environment in place,
and then a production environment.
How can you make your web application point onto a
particular environment?
So, by now, when you're looking at your task,
you know you can see a lot of flexibility
in the task itself.
So, currently in my deploy to staging,
I have one task for deleting my resources,
but then I can take my additional four tasks
which involve the ARM template deployment.
The deployment onto the Azure web app,
the creation of the tables,
and then the configuration string
onto the staging environment where
I have different resources defined as part of my
ARM template.
And even in the template itself,
you could go ahead and make the naming of your resources
more dynamic in nature.
You could probably put the names of your resources
as parameters and then pass it in the parameters file.
You can make that dynamic as well.
And then in your pipeline, remember when you go
onto your tasks, when you go onto your table creation,
here you can specify the SQL server name.
When you go onto the Azure web app, you can specify
the web app name.
And when you go onto app server settings,
you can change the connection string accordingly.
So, now your application can actually probably point
onto your staging database.
You only have this flexibility within the task itself.
It's up to you to ensure that, use that flexibility.
I wanna give this quick note to students because
I used to get this question onto how do I make
my application point onto different environments?

--- Lab - Release pipelines - ARM Templates Artifacts ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I wanna showcase how we can basically have an artifact
as part of the task
when it comes on to our ARM template deployment.
Earlier on, we had the template link
but in the template location,
we can also have a linked artifact as well.
For this first, what I'll do,
I'm gonna clone the existing repository that I have
when it comes on to the repository linked
onto the build pipeline
and then subsequently linked onto this release pipeline.
I'm gonna have that main.json file part
of my code base,
upload it on to the repository.
It'll then come as part of our build pipeline
and from there, it'll come on to our release pipeline.
If I go onto my repositories,
that particular pipeline is linked
onto SQL App Secure.
On my local machine in Visual Studio 2022,
let me clone a repository.
I'll browse for Azure DevOps.
I'm choosing the SQL App Secure repository
that I have and just a local temporary path on my C drive.
I'll hit on the Clone button.
Here in Visual Studio,
in the Solution Explorer,
let me double click on the solution file
so that I get a solution view now
of my entire project.
Within my project now,
I'll right click and add a new folder.
I'll name this as Templates.
Within Templates, I'll add an existing item.
I'll go onto my Template folder,
onto linked templates and choose my main.json file.
I'm now having this main.json file
as part of my application code.
Again, this references our linked template
when it comes on to our sqldatabase.json file
and our SQL Database parameters.
When it comes on to my template GRP resource group,
so currently, I don't have any resources in place.
As I normally do,
let me go on to the storage account.
We go on to my containers.
Go on to templates.
Go on to SQL Database.
Click on Edit.
And again, just make a small change
when it comes on to the SQL Server name.
Make that change here as well.
Let me click on Save.
This is one thing that's done.
Obviously, I need to now commit this onto my repository.
Before I do that,
let me go on to MySQL app by applying before I forget.
Onto the table creation here,
let me make a change onto the SQL Server
because that is a change that we have made here
in terms of the server name.
If I scroll down, everything is fine.
In terms of the app server settings,
I'll make a change here as well.
Let me click on Save.
Before I change obviously the ARM template deployment,
let me go on to my pipelines,
and go on to the build pipeline.
Pause SQL App Secure.
I'll click on Edit.
The change I'm gonna make here
when it comes onto my build pipeline,
I'm gonna have one more task
when it comes on to publishing my pipeline artifact.
So I have one pipeline artifact
that's published that's basically for my build
for taking my build of my web application,
and passing it on my release pipeline.
I'm adding another task to create another artifact
that is gonna be published again
on to my release pipeline.
This time I'm making a reference
onto my sources directory
and I'm saying please only take the files
from the templates folder.
See here within SQL App,
I create a templates folder.
Now, only what is basically part
of this templates folder,
only pass that as an artifact
onto the release pipeline.
In the prior section,
I told you that I'll show you a way
when it comes on to taking selected files
and passing it on to the release pipeline.
You can do this by changing the target path.
What is it that you want to take from this build pipeline
and make it available onto the release pipeline?
So only the files within the templates folder.
Let me go ahead and click on Save.
So I'll say added published task
for
templates folder.
I'll click on Save.
This should actually start a build
but I'm gonna cancel this build.
Okay, this is fine, this should be canceled for now
because what I wanna do is I want
to go and make a commit basically
of my file in my templates folder,
otherwise it won't work.
Go on to get changes.
So I'll say
uploading main.json.
Let me do a commit all and a push.
This might ask me to do a pull first.
So it has pushed the changes
and it should have triggered another build.
Yes, that is done.
If I go on to my repos,
here within SQL App,
I should be having now my templates folder in place
and I have my main.json file also in place.
I'm gonna wait for actually this to complete.
So lemme go on to my pipelines.
And quickly once this is complete,
before I actually reach a release,
so it'll definitely trigger a release.
When a release is triggered,
I'm gonna go ahead and basically cancel that release
because I want to make a change
onto our release pipeline.
So as soon as the build is complete,
I'm gonna keep a track of this.
As soon as the job is complete,
it's gonna trigger a release and then I'll cancel it.
So I have come back,
I can see the build is complete.
If I go to my releases, it's done a release.
Let me go on to the release quickly
and here let me cancel the deployment on the test.
So it's canceling this particular stage.
So it's going on as failed.
So again, the reason I did this
is I wanna now make a change onto my pipeline.
I'll go on to the task
when it comes onto the ARM template deployment.
Here in terms of the template location,
I'm now gonna choose a linked artifact.
I can browse now.
If I go on to my linked artifacts,
I have my template artifact
and I can choose my main.json file.
It is now available
because we had a build pipeline
that actually released the artifact
onto our release pipeline.
Now let me click on Save and hit on OK.
Now let me just create a release.
Let me go on to release.
And let's come back once this is complete.
So I've just come back.
I can see that when it comes onto my release,
there was an error
when it came onto deployment onto the test environment.
Here in the ARM template deployment,
it's saying a website with the given name already exists.
If I go on to my Web Apps,
I actually don't have any App Services in place,
even if I go onto the template GRP resource group.
I've refreshed it a lot of times
and I don't see the resources in place.
So this comes onto the fact
why I frequently go ahead
and change the names of my Azure SQL Database servers
because sometimes even though the previous resource
has been deleted,
when it comes onto creating the resource again
with a similar name,
it just seems to have an issue.
So I said it's not there here
but in the error,
it's saying the website with the given name already exists.
So as a workaround,
that's why I normally change the names
of my resources.
Currently, I've only been doing it
for my Azure SQL Database server resources
but this time around, lemme go ahead
and do it for all of my resources.
I'll again just delete
the resources that I have here.
Let me go on to sqldatabase.json.
So unfortunately, I need to make a change here again.
I'll scroll down, make the change here, click on Save.
One good thing about having everything
in a central location is you can make the changes
and then save it accordingly.
I'll need to go onto my pipeline.
I have to click on Edit here,
onto the tasks, make sure I change the names here as well.
So I know that this can be a painstaking exercise
but nevertheless, we have to ensure
that we make these changes accordingly.
Now, what I'll do for the web app,
I'll put a different name here.
Here for the app settings.
Okay, let me put template GRP.
And let me scroll down.
Change the SQL Server name.
Right?
Let me save all of this.
And then let me go on to my repos here.
I'll go and make a change onto main.json.
So we have the plan here.
Let me click on Edit.
I'll make a change.
The same name I need to give here
when it comes on to the name of my Azure Web App.
Right, everything else seems to be fine.
Let me go ahead and do a commit.
I'll just do a simple commit for now.
This should trigger my build pipeline
and then trigger a release again.
Let's come back and see whether the release actually goes
on to success.
So now I've come back.
The deployment is complete.
So in this chapter,
I just wanna show you
like how to use a linked artifact.
If I click on Refresh for my resources,
I should be having my resources in place.
But the entire idea of this chapter
was just to show you
how you can actually pick up your JSON file,
basically your ARM template as a linked artifact.
Just a quick note before I sign off.
If you go on to the next stage of your pipeline,
which is the deletion of the resources which I have,
it might fail or it will fail
because remember, you have to change the name
of the resources that you are deleting
in the subsequent stage.
Just a quick note.

--- Lab - ARM Templates - Dynamic Resource creation ---

(upbeat music)
(upbeat music ends)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in the previous chapter, we are looked at the use
of release pipelines when it comes on to the deployment,
of our resources, our Azure web app and Azure SQL database.
Now I wanna go ahead,
and show you an example on how we can actually,
dynamically generate the name of your resources.
First of all, as part of my template GRP Resource group,
let me go ahead and delete the resources again,
except for my Azure storage account.
Let me delete these resources.
So more often than not,
we might want to dynamically have the names
of the resources in place,
and then we want to ensure that we take those names,
and then put us part of our pipeline,
see currently when it comes onto our pipeline,
let me edit our existing SQL pipeline.
When it comes onto our task,
if you go onto the Azure SQL Table creation,
here we are basically like hard coding,
the name of the Azure SQL Server.
But let's say we wanna make this more dynamic in nature.
We first of all want to dynamically generate the name
of the SQL server,
and then we want to ensure that that same name,
is carried forward in our release pipeline.
So I wanna show you an example on how we can achieve this.
So I did a lot of research and a lot of homework,
and it also took a lot of time to understand end to end,
on how we can accomplish this.
So, so let's go ahead and see how we can accomplish this.
The first thing is to make changes,
onto our resource manager templates accordingly.
If I go onto, so I'll just save the script file,
and I'll close it.
On the link templates,
if I go onto SQL database,
we're first gonna make some changes here.
So we have to make, first of all,
changes onto our ARM template
because it's the ARM template that is going ahead,
and publishing our resources or deploying our resources,
as part of our, your subscription.
Here is where we first need to initiate,
the dynamic name creation for our resources.
I'm gonna do that for our SQL Server name.
You're under variables,
I'm gonna create a new variable.
I'll put a name of SQL server name,
and how are we gonna define this variable?
I'm gonna use the concatenation function,
or the concat function that's available,
as part of ARM templates.
I'm gonna concat the keyword of server.
I'll then take or use the unique string function again,
available as part of ARM and templates,
and just take a unique string from my resource group,
and dot its ID,
so I'm just taking the ID of the resource group,
that's template GRP, taking a unique string from there,
and then concat onto the server string.
This is gonna be our SQL Server name.
For the name here then,
I'm gonna change it onto taking it from the variables now.
In the variables, it is the SQL Server name,
and if I scroll down from my database,
I need to do the same thing,
so I'll copy these variables,
copy this and place it here.
So taking the value from the variables,
for the SQL server name,
and then if I scroll along,
even when it comes onto the, depends on condition.
We will take the variable here as well.
The next thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go,
onto the output section.
I now want to output the fully qualified domain name,
when it comes onto a Azure SQL server.
This will then be taken by our main.JSON template,
and we can take the outputs from there,
and pass it on onto subsequent tasks in our pipeline.
So outputs is a section if you want to output certain values
or certain property values when it comes
onto your as your resources that you're creating,
as part of your ARM template.
I want to get the fully qualified domain name,
so just giving a name for the output here.
This is of the type string,
so I choose string,
and what is the value?
Here the value is actually a reference,
so I'll choose reference.
Now I need to go onto my variables,
take these SQL Server name,
and I need to now take the fully qualified domain name.
This is a property that will be available now
for your SQL Server resource that gets created.
I'm gonna save this, so everything seems to be fine.
I'll copy all of this,
so I'll go onto my SQL database,
.JSON in my storage account.
I'll place the new content here,
and then let me click on save.
Similarly, let me now go on to my main.jSON file,
let's make some similar type of changes here as well.
I'm gonna change just the name of my web app for now.
So I'll give or create a new variable of web app name,
similar concept.
I'll use the Concat operator that's available,
or concat the keyword of (indistinct),
and then again, take the unique string.
In the unique string,
I'll take the resource group and it's ID.
And then if I scroll down,
when it comes on to the name of my web app,
ends of hard coding it,
I'll take it from the variables.
So I'll just copy the web app name, place it here.
Then I learn short to copy this entire thing,
and put as part of the properties as well.
And if I scroll down, right this all seems to be fine.
In terms of my outputs now,
I'll have an output for the web app name.
This is of the type of string,
and the value is basically again,
my variables is just my web app name that I have here.
So I'll just copy this,
scroll down, let's place it here.
I also want to take the output that's come in,
from my link template.
So if I want an outtake, an output from the link template,
I first need to find the output itself in the link template,
and then take it from our main template here.
Again, the type is the string,
and now how do I get its value?
So again, it's a reference.
In terms of the reference we have to give what is a name,
of our link template.
So if I scroll on top, the name I've given is link template,
so I need to paste it here.
Here we are referencing our link template,
dot, its outputs and dot what is the name,
of the output we had given?
So here if I scroll down,
the name we had given was SQL Server FQDN,
copy this, place it here, and then dot its value.
So I said here, we are just passing the output,
from the link template onto the main template.
And these outputs, which we get here,
are now very, very important.
We are gonna use these outputs as part of our pipeline.
First thing, just to make sure everything works,
let's just run our ARM templates as it is.
Normally I go step by step,
and I'm going through an entire process,
especially when it comes onto automating our pipelines.
Step by step first,
make sure everything works, copy all this.
We have our secret database.JSON file in place,
as part of template GRP don't have any resources in place.
Let me create a new resource,
this is gonna be a template deployment,
hit on create, build my template.
Let's place all of this,
this is my main.JSON,
click on save.
I have my template GRP resource group,
go onto review and create.
The validation has passed.
Let me go and hit on create.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Once the deployment is complete,
I'll go onto the resource group,
just to look at my resources.
You can see the plan name is the same,
because we haven't changed that.
If you look at our SQL server name,
you can see the keyword of server, and it has been appended
by some unique string that has been taken,
from the ID of the resource group.
Similar case, when it comes onto as Azure web app as well,
we have the web app keyword, and again,
we have the unique string when it comes,
onto ID of the resource group.
So the first step was to ensure that,
we dynamically generate the name of the resources.
Again, you can do it also for your app service plan.
Since in our task, we are only dependent,
upon the SQL server name and the web app name.
That's why I added dynamic features,
onto the names for these resources.
If you go onto your template deployment, right?
If you go back onto the overview,
for the template deployment,
if you go onto outputs, you can see the outputs here.
You have the web app name,
and the SQL server fully qualified domain name.
This is what is important.
It's these values now that need to be carried,
in our pipeline so that the task can work accordingly
with these directly generate resources.
Hence, the first thing,
the most important thing when it comes,
on to building that pipeline is to ensure,
that you dynamically generate your resources when it comes
to their names,
and also ensure that has an output.
You have them in place.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter,
and move onto the next.

--- Lab - Release pipelines - Dynamic Resources ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the prior chapter, we had gone ahead and ensured
that for our ARM templates, we have outputs in place.
Let me go on to the resource group
and now delete the resources
because we're gonna recreate them again.
Let me delete them.
So the first step was just to ensure
that the ARM templates works as desired
and now we can use that ARM template in our pipeline.
So now let me go onto my SQL app pipeline.
Let me go onto the ARM template deployment first.
To make this a little bit simpler...
Let me scroll down.
Instead of a link artifact,
let me make this a URL of the file
so that we can just create the release.
I'll go onto my main.json file, which is in my templates.
Let me first copy the URL.
Let's move this here.
Let's place it here. Let me click on save.
At the same time from Visual Studio Code,
let me copy the code for main.json
and ensure that it is replaced here.
Let me click on save.
Now, going back onto our pipeline
I told you that there are two outputs that we had, right?
If I go onto my main.json file it's the web app name
and the SQL Server fully qualified domain name.
So with these outputs, we need to map it onto variables
that can be defined as part of our pipeline.
Remember that there are redefined variables.
So when it comes onto your pipeline.workspace
or when it comes onto your build.sources directory,
there are already redefined variables
when it comes onto your pipelines.
And we can define variables here, extra variables,
which we might want as part of the pipeline itself.
So we have to now define those outputs as variables here.
I'm gonna click on add for the name.
Let me take the web app name, place it here.
Scroll onto the right.
I'll say it is settable at release time.
Let me add the other variable.
Click on add.
So initially we don't any values.
If you want, you can provide some dummy values.
We're actually gonna populate these values
via the use of a PowerShell script.
For now I'll just mark this settable at release time.
So the first step is to define two variables here.
This is a very important step.
You know, I had actually done the PowerShell script
and I had done the task
and I still wasn't able to simulate the passing of values
of one task to the other.
And the entire time I was actually banging my head
and trying to figure out what exactly is wrong.
And the thing that you have to do
is you have to define those variables here as well
as part of your pipeline
and then you can set it as part of your task.
So first thing is define your variables, click on save.
Okay, let's go back onto our task.
For the ARM template deployment,
which is now going on to the main.json,
it is now giving some outputs, right?
The two outputs.
Now these outputs are gonna be given
as a complete JSON to this pipeline.
We have to give a name. You can give any name here.
This is gonna be the name of the entire output.
So all this output is gonna come as JSON.
And this entire content is gonna be passed on as an output
after this ARM deployment task.
It is now your responsibility to take this output.
Within this output, I said, you are gonna have the outputs
for the web app name and these SQL Server name.
It's now up to you to go ahead and extract those contents
and set the variables accordingly.
For this, we're gonna be making use
of a PowerShell script file.
This PowerShell script file
is actually gonna take that value of the resources deployed
and I'll show you how we can pass that value
onto the script.
It's gonna convert it from JSON
into this particular outputs variable.
And then I'm gonna extract the web app name, its value,
and the SQL Server (indistinct), it's value.
I'm just writing the values as a debug option
so that we can see it in the logs.
With the help of write-host and task.set variable
we can now set those variable names onto the values.
So I told you from that output JSON,
which we are getting from the ARM template deployment,
I'm first extracting the web app name
and the SQL Server fully qualified domain name.
And then I am setting these variables
in the pipeline that we had defined earlier on.
This script is going to be part of our code, right?
If I go on to Solution Explorer
this is the code we have been using earlier
on this part of SQL app.
When linking an artifact,
we had the main JSON as part of templates.
Now in templates, just to make this very simple,
I'm gonna add that script file.
So I'll click on add, add an existing item.
I have that script file. I'm gonna add it here.
Once this is added, let me commit this on to the repository.
I'll do a commit all and push.
It'll do a pull and a push.
So this should now trigger a build within Azure Pipeline.
So that's going on.
Now, this would also trigger a release of the pipeline.
So first of all, let me click on save
to whatever you've done for now.
For my previous release, which I have,
I'll just go on to the release.
Here, let me just hit on cancel.
Go back here.
So I'm just waiting for this bill to complete this job.
So what it's doing is...
Remember, as part of this build if I go on to edit,
at the end we had added a step
to publish the pipeline artifact.
This is all of the files in the templates folder.
That's why I had placed the script file
in the templates folder.
Now even the script file is gonna be passed on
to a release pipeline.
But before the release pipeline actually starts,
I'm gonna cancel it.
I just want the bill to complete
because we still need to complete the editing
of configuration of our release pipeline.
So let's just wait.
So the bill pipeline is complete
It's gone onto the release.
Let me hit on cancel to cancel this release.
Let's go back onto editing our pipeline.
I'll, again, go onto the task.
So where we had left off
we added the deployment output where it comes onto a name.
So I said the outputs are gonna be given
as part of this name.
I'm gonna add now another task.
This is gonna be a PowerShell task.
So I'll choose PowerShell, click on add.
I'll go onto the script here.
In terms of the file part, I'm gonna browse now.
So as part of the template artifact
I should now see my script file in place.
I'll hit on OK.
Remember, as part of the script file,
we have this ARM values.
Now here in the arguments,
we want to pause something onto ARM values,
which will be passed onto our script.
And can you guess what we need to pass in?
We need to pass in the resources deployed type of variable,
which we had defined in the ARM template deployment.
Let me just click on save quickly.
So, basically what we are doing
is we are now taking the output, which is available here,
passing it on to our PowerShell script.
And in the PowerShell script we have ARM values.
We are taking all of this now, passing it in ARM values.
And if I go onto the script
ARM values is going to take in the web app name
and the SQL Server fully qualified domain name.
Now again, as an example, I'm using PowerShell here.
You could to create another script
in probably Bash or something to kind of extract the names.
As an example, I'm just showing you
how we could extract the names, the outputs,
using a PowerShell script file.
Right, so I told you that these two statements now
are going to set the variable names
that we have defined here.
Currently, these are blank.
These are now going to be set
via the use of that PowerShell script.
If you wanna confirm that those values are indeed being set,
we can add another task.
I'll add a Bash task, I'll click on add.
This can be after the PowerShell script.
This can be an inline script.
Here, I'll just put an echo of the server name is...
I'll take this.
Copy it here.
And we have the web app name.
And the web app name is this.
This is just to confirm.
Actually, you can't kind of echo back the values
for the SQL Server basically the outputs
in the same PowerShell script task.
So I was also trying to do this
in my PowerShell script, right?
So I could write the values which I extracted from here.
But after setting the variables just to make sure
that the pipeline variables have the required values,
because I said I took a long time
in trying to get all of this to work.
And every time when I was trying to, let's say,
write-host the name of the variable here itself
in the PowerShell file, it would come as blank.
And I couldn't understand why is it coming as blank
because I was getting the values correctly here,
but then the variables were still coming as blank
even though I'm setting the variable values here.
And then after going through our forums
I saw that within the script
in which you are setting the variables,
in that script you can't get the output of those variables.
It'll just come as blank.
In the next task, you can actually go ahead
and get the values of these variables.
So again, a lot of R&amp;D
when it came on to building this entire setup.
That's why I added a Bash script after this just to echo
to make sure that I'm getting the correct values
when it comes onto the SQL Server
fully qualified domain name and the web app name.
And right, once we have all of this in place,
let me copy this.
I'll go onto as Azure table creation.
I can now just replace it over here. It's as simple as that.
This is all fine.
I go here onto the web app settings. I'll scroll down.
Even in this connection, I can delete all of this
and just put the reference onto the SQL Server
fully qualified domain name.
I'll quickly just click on save.
Go back onto the Bash script.
I'll take the web app name.
Place it here.
App server settings, place it here.
Just put template GRP.
Right, everything seems to be fine.
Let me go ahead and click on save and then create release.
In case if we do run into any issues,
we'll go ahead and rectify those issues accordingly.
Now once a deployment is complete
if I go on to template GRP...
Let me hit on refresh.
Actually, the pipeline itself succeeding is a big thing.
That means the values of the outputs
have been carried successfully in the subsequent task.
If I go onto the web app,
if I copy the URL of the web app and go onto a tab,
I can again see the same output
where I have my web application in place.
So in this chapter, I wanna give an example
on how you can add flexibility
when it comes onto your pipeline
so that you don't use hardcore values.

--- Lab - Deploying resources via Azure CLI ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now I wanna show you
how we can use Azure CLI
to build your resources.
We've already seen quite a lot of examples
when it comes onto Azure CLI
and it's pretty simple.
We can go ahead and use commands
to actually create resources,
like we've been doing earlier on.
We had an example with ERM templates.
Just quickly showing you an example
when it comes onto a Azure CLI.
Firstly, let me again go onto template G R P
and let me
delete the resources that I have.
Let me hit on delete,
except again for the storage account,
I'm leaving that as it is.
I'll go onto my SQL app pipeline.
For the SQL App pipeline,
I can go on to the context menu here.
I can choose clone,
so I'm just basically creating a copy
of the exact same pipeline.
Here, I'll just name, this as CLI.
Click on save.
So now we have two pipelines in place.
The only thing that you have to remember
when you're cloning a pipeline is
you are also cloning the artifact as well.
That means when your build pipeline completes
it's gonna trigger both of your pipelines
your normal SQL app pipeline,
and this pipeline as well.
So if you're cloning a pipeline
make sure that you change the artifacts accordingly.
Again, it depends upon your requirement.
Here, I just wanna clone this pipeline
because I wanna show a different way
in which you can create your resources.
Here, let me also not have any post-deployment condition
and let me delete this stage.
I just want the deployment
onto my test environment to be in place.
Now, as always,
the first step is to ensure
that you have the right CLI commands in place
for the creation of your resources.
I have the first command is
for the creation of an app service plan.
Here we mentioned our resource group.
What is a name we want to give onto our plan?
I want to create based on the free tier
and in the North Europe location.
The second one is to create an Azure BeBop
that's part of this plan in this resource group.
This is a name we want to give,
I'll just change the name here.
And in terms of the run time,
I want to base it on .NET 6.0,
so remember, when you create your Azure BeBop
you have to choose the run time.
Well, I'm giving the name of .NET 6.0
and if you wanna understand
how you get these run time values
you can actually execute this command
of easy web app list run times.
Then I have the command for the creation
of an Azure SQL database server.
Again here let just create a unique name,
the resource group, and the location.
What is the admin user and what is its password?
And then finally,
I'm creating the a Azure SQL database itself
mentioning what is the resource group
then what is the server name.
I'll change it here.
What is the name of the database?
And I want to create as part of the basic detail model,
the cheapest model that's available.
First things first, we have to ensure
that these commands works as expected,
as they are.
So I don't have any resources part of template GRP
in another tab I'm gonna open up Cloud Shell,
Azure Cloud Shell so we can execute the commands.
We basically need to have a storage account in place.
I could use the same storage account that I have.
So that's template store.
Again, it's up to you if you want,
you can have a different storage account.
And just give a name for the file share.
I'll hit on Create Storage.
Once this is done, just clear the screen.
Now let's take each command one by one.
First is to create the app service plan.
Just right click on the mouse,
choose paste, hit on enter.
They should now execute the command
to create an app service plan.
Once this is done
we get an output back adjacent on output back.
Let's go onto the next statement.
This is to create an Azure BeBop.
If you want to, can again clear the screen
Right click, choose paste, hit on enter.
And the next statement I told you
is to see the run times
that are possible to place here.
So if I take, this command
it is waiting for the web app to be in place.
So we have the web app in place.
You can right click and hit on paste.
You will see all of the run times that are available
or that you can choose.
If it's a Windows platform these are the values.
And if it's a Lenox platform,
these are the values.
Let me clear the screen.
Let's take the next command to create
the SQL database server.
Hit on enter,
and I'll just copy
the last command to create the Azure SQL database.
Once this is done, or again, clear the screen
let me paste in the command for creating the SQL database.
Hit on enter.
And once this is complete
in another tab if I hit on refresh for template GRP
I can see my resources in place.
So as the first step,
I just want to confirm
that we can deploy the resources via Azure CLI commands.

--- Lab - Release Pipelines - Azure CLI ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the prior chapter,
we had gone ahead and seen how to create our resources,
why the use of Azure CLI commands.
Now, let's see how we can incorporate these commands
as part of our pipeline.
First of all, let me go ahead and delete the resources
that I create except for my storage account.
(mouse clicks)
Click on Delete.
Let me go onto the pipeline.
So this is my SQL app pipeline CLI.
I'll go onto my task.
Now I'm gonna remove the task for the ARM deployment,
the PowerShell script and the Bash script.
I'm gonna add an Azure CLI task.
We'll add two of them.
One will be for the Azure web app
and the other one will be for the SQL database.
Choose My Subscription,
choose PowerShell and Inline Script.
Let's copy our scripts.
So I'll just copy the first commands
for the creation of the app service plan
and the Azure web app.
If you let me quickly just change the name of my web app
and I'll copy this.
Let me click on Save.
Let me go onto the web app here.
To make things simple, I'll hard code the name of my web app
and also the Azure SQL database
Template GRP.
Click on Save.
Now I'll add another Azure CLI task.
This will be for the Azure SQL database.
(keyboard clatters)
(mouse clicks)
PowerShell, In-line.
Take the next two commands.
Place it here.
Again, let me just change the name of the SQL server.
Then I'll go onto the table creation.
I will need to also append.database.windows.net
is the fully qualified domain name.
This is fine.
Go onto the app settings,
change it here.
Let me ensure to add the fully qualified domain name.
And once you have all of this in place,
let me go it and create a release.
And let's come back once this is complete.
Once a deployment has succeeded,
if I go on to template GRP,
if I hit on refresh I can see my resources in place.
And again, if you want confirm,
you can take the URL for your Azure web app.
So just close this.
Take the URL, go onto a new tab
and you can see everything working as expected.
So in this chapter,
wanna go ahead and show you
how you can add Azure CLI commands
to create your resources as part of your pipeline.

--- About Terraform ---

-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in these subsequent chapters,
we're gonna see how we can use Terraform
to build our infrastructure as part of our pipeline.
Early on, we had seen ARM templates,
and we saw Azure CLI commands.
Now let's look at Terraform.
In the next chapter, I'll show you how to set up Terraform.
Then we'll see how to build simple infrastructure
like our Azure apps and Azure SQL database,
via the use of Terraform configuration.
And we'll see our report as part of our pipeline.
Again, the concept is similar.
Terraform is used to deploy your infrastructure.
So if you have, let's say,
an application server or a database server,
you wanna deploy and configure your infrastructure,
you can do it as Infrastructure as code.
Again, you have a code file is actually a configuration file
within Terraform which can be used to deploy your resources.
Again, you can change the code whenever required.
You can share the code, you can create different versions
of your code.
And what makes Terraform very popular is,
it not only works with Azure,
you can use it to deploy resources
on Amazon web services on Google Cloud, et cetera.
There's a lot of functionality available within Terraform.
It works with a variety of cloud providers.
The code is in a human readable format.
It has an avid community.
It's an open source project.
So a lot of benefits when it comes
onto the usage of Terraform.
Now, just a quick note, when it comes onto the workflow,
the basic workflow for Terraform, the first step
is to go ahead and write your Terraform configuration file.
This basically defines the resources
that need to be deployed.
So let's say you deploy an application server
and a database server as part of your infrastructure.
You first define the definition of those resources
within your Terraform configuration file.
Let's say in your target environment
you don't have these resources in place.
You define it first in your Terraform configuration file.
Then you create something known as a Terraform plan.
The Terraform plan will actually look
at your configuration file and decide
on the resources that need to be deployed or changed.
It does this via the use of a state file.
And then finally, you do a Terraform apply.
When you do a Terraform apply,
it will apply all of the changes
has by your Terraform configuration file.
This is when deploy, lets your application server
and your database server onto your environment.
We're gonna be using the Terraform CLI.
You just simply download a Terraform binary file
on your local machine, on your laptop basically.
You develop your configuration file
and then you can go ahead
and plan and apply the configuration file accordingly.
So if you look at Terraform, there's actually
an open source tool that's developed by HashiCorp.
It helps you automate and manage your infrastructure.
It uses a declarative language when it comes
onto defining your code,
and you can use it to build infrastructure
on multiple cloud environments.
So let's look at how we can use Terraform
to build our infrastructure.

--- Installing Terraform ---

(funky music)
(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter, I wanna show you
how you can download Terraform
so that we can start working with it.
It's very simple.
We have Terraform available
for a variety of operating systems.
So I said we are gonna be working
with the command line interface that's available.
Yeah, in Terraform,
I'll choose whatever is the latest version
for the Windows bind download.
I'm gonna choose AMD 64.
This will start the download of a zip file.
Let me copy this on too.
So it's in my downloads folder.
It's also opened up the application in downloads.
Actually, I should have a zip file in place.
Within the zip file you'll have
the Terraform application, the executable.
I'm gonna copy this.
And in my C drive,
I create a folder known as Terraform.
I'll just copy that executable.
In this particular Terraform folder,
we are gonna be developing
our Terraform configuration files.
And that's it, you actually have Terraform in place.
It's just a very simple executable
that can be used for deploying your code.
You're deploying your infrastructure
based on your Terraform configuration files.
Now since I'm on a Windows-based system,
I'm gonna go onto my control panel.
Actually in my environment variable,
I'll ensure that I have a path variable that defines
where I have my Terraform executable file.
So I'm gonna go on to control panel.
Let me go onto System and security.
I go onto System.
Yeah, I'll scroll down and go onto advanced system settings.
I want to go onto the environment variables.
In the environment variables,
I'll go onto the path variable.
I'll just double click it.
I'll scroll down.
I'll add a new path variable.
So I'll put the path variable of C Terraform.
Hit on Okay.
And then in this main screen,
I'll also hit on Okay.
Now I'll just open up command prompt
on my local machine.
Let me go on to the Terraform folder.
(Typing on keyboard)
And if I do a Terraform version,
I should be able to see the current version
of Terraform itself.
Now, apart from just downloading Terraform,
I have also downloaded and installed Visual Studio Code.
This will be our editor
when creating the Terraform configuration files.
Normally it's good to have
an Integrated Development Environment that helps you
to build different code-based files.
In this example, I'm using Visual Studio Code.
This is a freely available tool.
You can go ahead and download this tool
for a variety of operating systems.
So I've already gone ahead.
I've downloaded and installed the tool.
Once you have this tool in place,
you should go on to extensions.
I've installed some extensions.
If I search for Terraform,
I've installed the extension of HashiCorp Terraform,
and also Azure Terraform as well.
For you, you might be having a button
to install both of these extensions.
Since I've already installed these extensions,
I have the ability to uninstall them.
So there are two steps.
The first step is to download the Terraform Executable.
The next step is to have a tool in place
that will allow you
to develop your Terraform configuration files.
Here I am using Visual Studio Code.
You download, you install Visual Studio Code,
and then the next step
is to install these extensions.
The extensions you install are HashiCorp Terraform
and Azure Terraform.
You just have to go ahead
and search for Terraform in the marketplace,
and then install these extensions.
Then let me open up the Terraform folder.
So I'll just browse for Terraform folder on my C Drive.
Select the folder.
I can see my Terraform executable.
We can then hit on creating a new file.
Let me name this as main.tf.
So tf is the extension for Terraform itself.
I'll hit on Enter.
And you can see that Visual Studio understands
that this is meant to be a Terraform configuration file
based on the extension we have given.
You can see the symbol for Terraform itself.
So Visual Studio now understands
that you want to work with Terraform.
You have Terraform providers, Terraform module calls.
So I say the benefit of using a tool,
it makes it much more easier
to start working with Terraform itself.

--- Lab - Creating resources via Terraform ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in this chapter,
we're gonna build a data farm configuration file
for the deployment of our resources.
So similar to the way
in which we had looked at ARM templates
and Azure CLI for the creation
of our Azure Web App resource
and the Azure SQL Database resource,
we look at how we can use a Terraform configuration file
to achieve the same purpose.
And as always, the first step
is to ensure that we have the right configuration file
in place for the deployment of these resources as they are.
Here in the Terraform folder that I have on my C drive,
I have the Terraform.exe.
So again, I'll just recreate the main.tf file.
This is gonna be our main Terraform configuration file.
The first thing we're gonna do
is to define the Terraform block
wherein we have the required providers.
Here we wanna specify that we want
to use the Azure ARM provider
that's available with Terraform.
See, Terraform has the ability to work with a variety
of cloud-based providers.
So with ARM templates and Bicep,
you only have the facility to work
with Azure-based resources,
but with Terraform, you can also work
with other cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services,
Google, et cetera.
Here in terms of the source.
I'll mention the source accordingly.
And in the version,
I can mention the most recent version that's available.
This is when it comes onto the required provider.
Then I need to give details
about how this provider is actually gonna connect
on to our Azure account.
For this we need to mention something known
as the subscription ID.
Then what is the tenant ID?
What is the client ID?
And what is the client secret?
And I'm gonna explain how do we get all of these values.
So to get all of these values,
we're gonna go onto the Azure Active Directory service.
I'm gonna go on to App Registrations.
I'll create a new registration.
I'll just give an application name.
And then hit on Register.
In the overview,
I'm gonna copy the client ID.
I will specify it here.
I will take the directory or the tenant ID,
and let's copy it here.
For the subscription ID,
it's actually quite simple.
If you go on to another tab
as part of your Azure account,
if you go on to your subscriptions,
you can take your subscription ID
and we can place it here.
Finally is the client secret.
For that, we have to go on to certificates and secrets
as part of your Terraform app registration.
Here generate a new client secret.
Here you can just give a name for the secret
and click on Add.
Copy this password now itself.
This value, you will not get the same value
or you'll not get this value once you navigate away
from the screen.
And place it here.
So all of these details
will actually help this Terraform configuration file
to connect onto your Azure account
and deploy the required resources.
Let me go ahead and click on Save.
The next thing we have to do
is go on to your subscription.
So I have one subscription in place.
Go on to access control.
We now have to add a role assignment.
We need to give permissions
onto this Terraform application object
that we just created.
To make this simple,
I'm gonna choose the contributor access.
Go on to Next.
I'll click on Select Members.
I'll search for Terraform here.
I'll choose the Terraform application object
and hit on Select.
Go on to review and assign.
And do a review and assign of the role.
The next step is to now define resource blocks
for the deployment of our App Service plan,
our Azure Web App, our Azure SQL Database server,
and the Azure SQL Database itself.
Let me go on to my resource group.
That's template GRP.
Here let me delete the resources
that I have.
Let's go back on to the configuration file.
Now, if you go on to the Terraform documentation.
You will actually see the resource definitions
for the different resources that you need to create.
Again, we're not going into details
when it comes onto Terraform.
I have a separate course
when it comes onto the entire implementation
of Terraform, when it comes on to Azure.
Here we just see how can we use Terraform
when it comes onto deploying resources
as part of our pipeline.
This first resource block is for the definition
of our App Service plan, the resource deployment.
I'll copy this here from the documentation
and place it in my script.
We just need to give a name of the resource.
This is for the definition of the resource
within the Terraform configuration file.
I'll give the same name here.
This is gonna be the name of the actual resource
that is gonna be deployed.
The name of my resource group is template GRP.
And the location
is North Europe.
I'll leave the OS type as Windows.
And in terms of the SKU,
I want to use the free tier.
This is for the App Service plan.
Next is for the Azure Web App.
So I'll scroll down.
This is the definition.
I'll copy this.
Let me place it here.
I need to give a unique name for my web app.
Give the same name here.
Again, my resource group.
My location.
And in terms of the service plan,
we need to reference the service plan, its ID.
In the site config,
I'm gonna put something known as the always on feature
as false because we can't give this true
when we have a free app service plan.
I need to mention something known
as the application stack.
In this application stack,
I can mention the current stack as .NET.
See, I want to deploy a web app
that supports .NET version 6.0.
And this resource, just like ARM templates,
has a depends on clause
where it depends upon the App Service plan.
Let me save this.
Next, let's go ahead with the deployment
of our Microsoft SQL Azure Database server.
I'll scroll down.
Actually, there's a lot
when it comes but we don't need everything.
So I'll just copy some bits here
and then make the changes accordingly.
I'll just give a unique name.
Copy this and place it here.
Again, the resource group is template GRP.
The location
is North Europe.
Let me go ahead and hide this
so we have a complete view.
The version is fine.
In terms of the admin login,
so I'll press SQL user.
And the password as Azure Adrith 123.
And that's all. We don't need all of this.
Save this.
And finally is the deployment of the SQL Database itself.
So I'll just scroll down.
Let me take this.
Again, I'll just put what is required.
So app DB.
Put the same name here.
In terms of the ID, I need to take this SQL Server,
place it here.
License included.
Just put a less size here.
We don't need a read scale.
In terms of the SKU name, I'll use the basic.
Then I don't need all of this.
And this has a dependency on the SQL Server.
So let me save all of this.
Now I practiced a lot when it comes on to Terraform.
Once you have a lot of practice in place,
it becomes easy to go ahead
and develop these Terraform configuration files.
Now, once you have these files in place,
it's now time to deploy the resources
based on this Terraform configuration file.
You can do it from a terminal
from within Visual Studio itself.
This will open up PowerShell.
The first command you need to execute is Terraform init.
This is gonna download that Azure ARM module
that's actually required
to interact with Azure
from a Terraform configuration file.
The next step is to go ahead
and create a Terraform plan.
So I'll issue the plan command
and create a plan file.
This is gonna compare actually the resources
that I have as part of my Azure account
and what I want to deploy.
Here just giving me an error
because I just need to go on to my provider
and just put an empty features block.
I'll click on Save.
Let's try this again
to create a plan.
So here it's telling us
that we have four resources that need to be added.
And here it'll give information
when it comes on to the resources
that need to be created, along with its properties.
To apply the plan, we can copy this Terraform apply,
the main.tf plan.
So Terraform
apply
main.tf plan.
And this will apply this plan accordingly.
And this plan is to deploy our Azure Web App resources
and the Azure SQL Database resources.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now, once I receive a notification
that the resources have been applied,
if I go on to my template GRP resource group
and if I hit on Refresh,
I can see my resources in place.
So again, I just noticed the weird name I'd actually given
for my Azure Web App
because I think when I was trying to replace the name
of the web app, that's the name that came about.
But again, in the end, we have these resources in place.
What I'll do now is let me destroy the resources
and we can do it from here itself.
There is a Terraform destroy command
that'll actually go ahead
and delete the resources accordingly.
It'll first confirm whether you want
to delete the resources.
So it'll ask information.
Do you want to delete the resources?
So I will confirm.
And it'll go ahead and delete the resources
that were created.
Now, in the next chapter,
we're gonna see how we can create the resources
via Terraform in our pipeline.

--- Lab - Release pipelines - Terraform ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, I'm back.
Here, in terms of the Terraform configuration,
so it's gone ahead and destroyed my resources.
If I hit on refresh on template GRP,
I don't have those resources in place.
Here in terms of my Terraform configuration file.
I just made a small change onto the SQL server name
and also I just made sure that my web app name was proper.
Then I saved the main.tf file.
The next step, what I did is
in Visual Studio, in terms of my code,
the code I'd earlier on,
I add my templates folder.
I added now my main.tf file
which has all my Terraform configuration.
I published this onto my Azure repository that I have.
So, this was in my SQL app secure.
This actually triggered a build of my build pipeline,
so that is also done out of the Terraform file.
I had also created, again,
I'd cloned my SQL app pipeline and named it as Terraform.
It actually triggered a release that's released one
for the Terraform pipeline.
I just cancel that
because we need to make changes onto this pipeline.
For the other pipelines that I have
like my SQL App Pipeline CLI,
what I'd done is I'd ensured to remove the artifact
from here just to ensure that it does not trigger
both my SQL App Pipeline CLI and also it does not trigger,
sorry if I go back on releases,
it does not trigger my normal SQL App Pipeline as well.
Now, I'll go onto SQL Pipeline, Terraform, click on edit.
I'll go on to the job and the task.
I'll remove this task.
I need to add a task now for Terraform.
Now, in terms of Terraform, I have two tasks in place
in case, now for me, earlier on I'd already tried it
for my DevOps organization.
So for my other project.
So initially for you, it'll ask you to actually
install the Terraform tool from the marketplace.
So similar on to the other extensions
we've install for Azure DevOps project,
basically our organization,
it'll take you onto the marketplace.
This is again, a free tool.
You can go ahead and click on install.
It'll install it as part of your Azure DevOps organization.
Once it's installed, you can start going it
and using the task as they are.
Before we're gonna add the task for Terraform tool installer
this is gonna be our first task
so you can leave everything as it is.
Then I'll add the next task of Terraform.
I'll choose Terraform.
Click on add.
The first command is to do actually a Terraform init.
The provider is Azure RM.
Here we have various commands.
The first command is the in init command.
Now, when it comes onto the configuration directory
I'm gonna browse for it.
I'm gonna go onto my template artifact folder
in which I have my main.JSON file.
So I'll choose that folder.
That's fine.
So you can actually have a separate folder
when it comes onto your Terraform configuration.
For now, just to make things simpler
I have my templates folder in place
and because I had my build pipeline,
which execute that's why I can see it has an artifact.
I'll scroll down, choose my subscription
choose my resource group.
Now we need to have a storage account in place.
This is used for the Terraform State file.
So I'll make use of the existing storage account
that I have in place.
Here in containers, let me create a new container.
I'll name this as Terraform, blob, anonymous access.
I'll hit on create.
Go back onto my pipeline.
I'll choose my storage account.
Choose the container of Terraform.
Here I'll put the name of the state file
Terraform.tfstate.
Let me click on save.
Then the next command is again, Terraform.
So I'll click on add.
This is now gonna be the Terraform Plan Command.
In the command, I'll choose Terraform Plan.
Again, choose my template artifact folder.
So it'll take the Terraform configuration file form here.
Choose my subscription, and this should be fine.
I'll click on save.
And again, add another Terraform task.
Click on add, and this is going to be the apply command
to apply the resources.
I'll choose apply.
Again, choose my template, artifact directory.
Scroll down, choose my subscription.
Then here in the additional command arguments
I'm gonna put the auto-approve
so that it automatically approves the task
of applying our Terraform configuration file.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
Now here, let me confirm the name I have
for my Azure Web App.
I need to replace it here
and here to be still part of template GRP.
I'll click on save and for my SQL Server,
copy this.
It's basically this
and I'll replace it here.
Then I'll go onto the setting below
and replace it here.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
And now let me go ahead and create a release.
So now the only difference is that
we are using Terraform configuration file to go ahead
and deploy our resources, and the rest remains the same.
Let's come back Once this is complete.
Once the deployment is complete
if I go onto my resource group
you will see your resources in place.
If I go onto my web app
just to confirm that it is working.
And everything is working as required.
Now I've shown you how you can use Terraform.
Just has a cleaner process.
You can go it and delete the resources that are part
of the resource group.
Right, template GRP as we've normally been doing.
Also go on to your subscriptions
and remove, in terms of access control, is a good cleanup.
Go on to roll assignments.
Here, actually search for Terraform.
You can choose the Terraform application object
and then click on remove.
So you are removing the roll assignment,
you had assigned early on.
And then go on to Azure Active Directory.
Go onto your app registrations
and then go ahead
and delete your Terraform application object.
Just go it and hit on delete.
Right? So this marks the end of this chapter
wherein we have looked at how we could use Terraform
when it comes onto deploying your infrastructure
as part of your pipelines.

--- Lab - Azure Release Pipelines - YAML ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter
I just wanna show you an example
on how you can extend a YAML build pipeline
into a release pipeline.
See, up to now we've seen
most of our build pipelines in YAML
and most of our release pipelines
where it comes onto the normal classical interface,
we have the UI interface.
Only at one point in time
when we were working with Docker based images
when we were deploying it onto let's say
the Azure Container Registry or to Azure Kubernetes.
At that point in time,
we had some deployment as part of our YAML script
and we didn't need to use the classic version
or the UI version of release pipelines.
I wanna showcase an example
on how we can probably convert
one of our existing pipelines that I have.
So, I have SQL app secure,
which we've been using earlier on
and extend it to deploy the application
onto an Azure Web App and an Azure SQL database
by making use of the existing tasks that we have,
taking that as a benchmark
and then adding code onto our YAML pipeline.
So, currently in SQL app secure my trigger
I have the pool variables,
I have steps in place
then you get installer and you get command.NET Core CLI
to build my project.NET Core CLI
to publish my project.
And then I have the artifacts published onto the pipeline.
If I compare this with my SQL app Docker here.
So let's try to take some of these aspects
when it comes onto building
a release pipeline as part of YAML.
I'll scroll on top,
put the resources
in terms of the self repository,
then I'll scroll down.
Now, it's putting everything as part of stages.
I told you that in your build pipeline,
it starts directly from steps,
but inherently it is part of a stage
and it is part of a job.
What you can do is you can take all of this
and put everything explicitly as part of a job.
So, I can copy all of this
and we can place it here.
So, we are having a stage, a build stage,
and then as part of the stage,
we are having now a job, a build job.
If you look at these steps now,
so indentation is very, very important now.
Since we now have stages that's defined here,
the steps now need to come in line
with the display name.
And when it comes onto the task now,
this needs to be in line with the steps.
So, we need to change all of this
in terms of the input now
needs to be in line with the task.
So, we need to indent all of this properly.
This is with the task.
Again, the input, the command.
Now, I'm gonna add another stage here,
I just copy paste.
This is gonna be a deployment stage.
So again we are splitting our pipeline into multiple stages.
Again, we have a job, a deployment job.
I told you that if you want to have your pipeline artifacts
as part of the next stage,
you have to ensure that you download
the artifacts accordingly.
Now, here I don't need the templates
because I'm not making use of it over here.
We're just gonna be making use
of the artifacts teaching directories.
If you want to, you can delete this particular task
of publishing the pipeline artifact.
So, here I'm ensuring to download
the company app artifact that has all of my bills
as part of my artifact staging directory.
Now, I want to define the task
that we had used earlier on as an example.
I'll go onto our SQL app pipeline,
I'll click on edit,
I'll go onto the task.
I want to now put all of these five tasks
as part of our YAML file.
The one way of doing this is, you know,
if you go onto any task and if you view YAML,
we'll actually get the YAML definition here.
We can copy all of this
and I can place it as a task.
So, in terms of the steps,
I can place it as a task here now.
I don't need the steps again
but it needs to be in line with the task,
the display name,
the inputs all need to be in line.
So, you can actually view the YAML
for each task definition and place it here.
You still need to make some changes here and there.
So, let me put the inline script.
This also needs to be intended properly,
so it needs to be on the end here and the same thing.
We are deploying our App Service plan
in terms of the web app,
I'll just quickly give a new name.
Let's go onto the next task,
again, view the YAML, I'll take the task.
Again, let me go onto the task,
paste it here.
So again, put the display name,
put the inputs properly.
Here just let me make a change onto the server name.
All is fine.
Now, let's go onto the next task
which is the table creation, view the YAML.
Again, let me take the task
then let me place it here.
Again, it does take some time to make sure
that everything is aligned perfectly.
So we do have the task
but the display name,
the inputs, the server name.
So let me make sure I make that change here, there's three,
the other details remain the same.
SQL in line.
So this also is okay.
Let's go on to web app deploy, view the YAML,
copy this task.
So, the display name, the inputs,
and what is the app type
and then the app name.
I need to change the app name.
I'll scroll on top,
whatever is the name I gave for my app,
let's copy this
so I can place it here as well.
So, there is a package property
that you can actually mention,
so where is it supposed to take the zip file from?
Remember that when it comes to deployment
onto the Azure Web App,
we need to take the zip deployment file.
This is gonna be available as part of pipeline.workspace
as part of our company app artifact
that we have downloaded here,
we've downloaded it here,
and then it's searching for the zip file accordingly.
And then the last task.
Let's copy that as well.
So, copy all of this.
Let's place it here.
Again, put everything properly.
Once all of this is in place, again,
let me take the name of my SQL server.
Let's make sure I just replace it here
in terms of the DCP connection,
in terms of my web app,
let me go ahead and change it accordingly.
All right, so we have everything in place.
So, as part of this entire YAML script,
we are now doing the building and deploying.
So, instead of now using that classical interface
when it comes onto the various tasks in our pipeline,
we are putting everything
as part of the YAML definition here itself
as part of my resource group.
So, I should only be having,
again, so I do have the resources
so let me go ahead and delete them.
So, let's wait till this is complete.
Once it's complete.
So everything seems to be fine here.
And it just comes onto the artifact,
so I'll just name this as SQL app secure artifact.
So just copy this and place it here.
This is what needs to be downloaded.
Let me also ensure that I make the same change.
So if I scroll down
when it comes onto taking my Azure Web App.
So, SQL app secure artifact,
and the zip content from there.
At any point in time you can also do a validation.
So everything seems to be okay,
I'll click on save.
Let's see, added release tasks and click on save.
So again, we have basically two stages in place.
Let's see if it gets deployed.
If you have any errors,
we'll make the changes accordingly.
So let's come back after some time.
Now, it's just telling us that when it comes
onto the deployment stage,
that permission is required.
I'll click on view and I'll click on permit.
And again, let's come back
to see what is the status of the deployment stage.
And after some time,
I've just gone onto the deployment stage
and you'll see everything is complete
and you can go ahead and verify
that everything is actually working as it should be.
You can go onto your Azure Web App and confirm.
So, in this chapter, I just wanna show you
how you can extend your build pipeline
to release your application.

--- Azure Release Pipelines - YAML - ARM Templates ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just want to give a quick example
on how you can call your ARM templates,
when it comes onto your YAML files.
This when it comes onto a link artifact.
So here in my containers in a storage account,
I have my SQL database .JSON file
and SQL database parameters.
We've only seen this before.
This will go and create an Azure SQL database server
and Azure SQL database.
Then as part of my Azure repost,
I have mymain.json file in place.
I've gone ahead and added the code,
when it comes on to one of my pipelines.
This is now for deploying my resources first.
Why the use ARM templates?
But this is any YAML configuration.
Here most of the aspects remain the same,
when I do my build,
I do a publish.
I'm publishing my pipeline artifact,
publishing my template artifact.
This has the or will have mymain.json file.
In the deploy stage, I'm downloading the artifacts.
I'm just adding one more command here for checking the data
within the pipeline workspace.
This is good from a debugging aspect.
If you wanna see the files that are carried forward,
available onto your pipeline workspace
so that you can actually use those files later on.
You can go ahead and use this particular task.
And then finally, to deploy that ARM template,
I'm using the task of Azure Resource Manager
template deployment.
Here I'm putting the input of my service connection,
the resource, group name, the location, et cetera.
And here I'm calling mymain.json file.
The deployment mode is incremental,
and the remaining is the same.
If you wanna understand how to add this particular task,
you can click on, "Show Assistant,"
search for the ARM template deployment,
choose this,
enter all of the details,
click on, "Add," and it will add the task over here.
So, with all of these settings in place,
in terms of changing the database name,
I've also changed the name of my web app as well.
Let me go ahead and click on, "Save."
And let's wait till the
pipeline is complete.
Once a deployment is complete,
you can always go on to
Azure,
and you can confirm,
if I go on to the web app,
take the URL,
(mouse clicks)
go on to a new tab,
I can see the web application in place.
So here I just wanna show you
how I can use ARM templates within your YAML pipeline file.

--- Desired State Configuration ---

(upbeat music playing)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in the subsequent chapter,
we are gonna look at
an example on the implementation of something known as
the Desired State Configuration.
What is the purpose of Desired State Configuration?
Now, let's say you are hosting a web application
on an Azure virtual machine or a set of virtual machines.
For that web application to be hosted, you might need to
have internet information services always installed
on the machine for hosting the web application.
You have to ensure that IS,
information services, is always in place.
And
if by any chance,
someone has gone ahead and uninstall
the role itself,
automatically,
again, internet information services should be in place.
So, you want to ensure that the configuration of the machine
does not drift, or it could impact the application.
For this, you can make use of
PowerShell Desired State Configuration.
Here, you are trying to ensure the state configuration
of a node such as an Azure virtual machine
stays as it should be.
When it comes onto the implementation of PowerShell DSC,
we are gonna look at service or a resource
known as Azure automation.
Azure automation actually has an inbuilt server
that can ensure that all machines receive
the desired configuration.
And you can manage all of the configuration and the nodes
from Azure portal itself.
In this chapter, want to give a quick introduction
onto Design State Configuration.
In the subsequent chapter,
we are gonna look now at an example on
how we can implement this.

--- Lab - Azure Automation DSC ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in this chapter, I want to give an example
when it comes onto Desired State Configuration.
For this, I'm gonna create a new resource,
an Azure virtual machine based
on Windows Server 2019 Datacenter.
I'm gonna choose an existing resource group that I have.
Just give a virtual machine name.
No infrastructure required.
Give simple details that we can use
to log into the machine.
I'll scroll down.
I'll allow traffic on port 80
because via the use of Desired State Configuration,
we're gonna ensure that Internet Information Services
is installed on this virtual machine.
I'll go on to Next onto the disks.
Leave it as it is.
Onto networking, leave it as it is.
Onto to management, onto advanced, tags, review and create.
And lemme go ahead and hit on Create.
Now, in order to implement Desired State Configuration,
we are gonna making use
of a service known as Azure Automation.
Azure Automation can actually implement a lot
of things, such as configuration management,
process automation, also update management.
We are just using a very small aspect of it
when it comes onto Desired State Configuration.
What I'll do is in another tab in all resources,
let me go ahead and create an instance
when it comes onto the Azure Automation account.
I'll search for Automation.
I'll just hit on Enter
so that we go on to the Marketplace.
I'll choose the Automation service.
Hit on Create.
Choose my existing resource group.
Just give a name
for the Automation account
in the North Europe location.
Go onto Next, leave it as it is.
And let's create the Automation account.
If I go on to my VM,
I can go to on the resource
and since we don't have anything running on this machine,
if I copy the public IP address,
if I go on to a new tab,
I won't get anything
because we don't have any sort of web server running
on this machine.
We are gonna run IIS
or install IIS via the use of a script
via the use of PowerShell Desired State Configuration.
In our Automation account,
let me go ahead onto the resource.
Now, I told you there is a lot that you can actually do
with the help of the Azure Automation account.
Now, what's next?
Well, we need to have a script in place.
It's actually a configuration
that will ensure that we have Internet Information Services
installed as a role on the machine.
For this, we have defined something known
as a configuration block.
Here we are giving a name for the configuration.
Then in the node,
I'm mentioning as localhost.
This just means that whatever we wanna install
as part of Desired State Configuration
is gonna be installed on the local machine.
What do I wanna install?
Well, I wanna install the role of Web Server.
This is a Windows feature.
I wanna ensure that this is always present on the machine.
In addition to installing the Web Server role,
I wanna ensure that all sub-features are also present.
A very simple configuration file.
So the first step is to ensure
that you have the configuration file in place.
Next step, go on to state configuration
within your Azure Automation account.
Go on to configurations and here click on Add.
We need to now upload our configuration file.
I'll browse for our file.
It's basically in one of my temporary folders.
It's the script file.
I'll click on Open.
I can give a name.
The name has to be the same
as the configuration name you gave here.
So I'll just copy the same name.
Click on OK.
Now here lemme go ahead and hit on Refresh.
I can see my configuration in place.
Let me click on it.
So the first step is to upload our configuration.
The next step is to now compile our configuration.
Click on the compile option.
Click on Yes.
It will submit a job when it comes
onto compiling your script.
It just takes a minute or two.
Once it is compiled,
you should see it in the compile configurations tab here.
So lemme just wait for a minute.
So after waiting for a minute,
I'll click on Refresh
and I can see the compile configuration.
The next step is to now add our nodes,
our machines basically on to the Azure Automation account.
We need to onboard them.
Let me click on Add here under nodes.
So now here when connecting onto the virtual machine,
I'll click on the Connect button.
I'll choose my configuration.
There is a refresh frequency.
This is the time interval that Azure Automation
will keep on checking for
whether the configuration is applied on the machine.
I'll scroll down in terms of the configuration mode.
I'm gonna choose Apply and auto correct.
This will ensure that if there is a configuration drift,
the configuration will be applied again on the machine.
I'll also allow module override
and reboot if required.
Let me go ahead and click on OK.
What this is gonna do is it's going install an extension
on the virtual machine.
This extension will communicate
with the Azure Automation account
when it comes onto the configuration.
Now, after some time when I come back,
I can see now my VM is connected
as a node onto my Automation account.
If you go to on the virtual machine itself,
if you go on to extensions and applications,
you will see an extension
of Microsoft PowerShell DSC applied on this machine.
This extension will now communicate
with our Azure Automation account
to ensure that the configuration is applied on the machine.
Now if I refresh this page,
we can now see Internet Information Services in place.
Now, let me connect onto the machine.
To download the RDP file,
let's log into the machine.
So we are logged into the machine.
The entire idea of Desired State Configuration
is if something goes wrong
when it comes onto the role of IIS,
then the configuration should ensure
that the role always is installed.
Hence I'll go on to manage.
I'll remove roles and features.
Go on to Next.
Go on to the VM.
I'll uncheck the web server role.
Go onto next.
And finally, let me click on remove.
We are now forcefully removing the role
of Internet Information Services.
Let's wait till this is complete.
So it's saying a restart is pending
when it comes on to the on installation process.
So lemme go ahead and do that.
I'll restart the machine from here.
Now that this is done,
let me wait for the machine to come up.
Let me refresh this page
when it comes onto Internet Information Services
running on this machine.
And you'll see you will not be able to reach the page.
That's because we've just performed
the on installation process.
Now remember there is that frequency
wherein Azure Automation will check
on a frequent basis
whether the configuration is applied on this machine.
And then after some time,
once it finds out that the configuration is not being met
on this machine, it should go ahead
and again install Internet Information Services.
I'm not gonna do anything.
I'm just gonna wait until this happens
and then I'll come back.
And after some time when I just click on Refresh,
I can see Internet Information Services.
So the PowerShell Desired State Configuration
is being applied on a continual basis
by the Azure Automation account
whenever there is basically a configuration drift.
Now, I'm gonna go ahead and delete all of the resources:
my Azure virtual machine and the Azure Automation account
because we are done with this particular exercise.

--- Note - File DSC resource ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I just wanna give a note
when it comes onto the DC file resource.
So we have seen an earlier configuration
in which we would ensure
that a Windows feature is always present on a machine.
If you wanna ensure
that a file is also present on the machine
from a particular source onto a particular destination path,
you can use the file construct
within the node within your configuration.
You can ensure that it is present.
Yeah, basically the type is a directory.
This means that you want the directory to be in place.
You want it to be copied, the full directory to be copied
from the source path onto the destination.
In this chapter, I just wanna kind of give this quick note
when it comes on to the file resource.
On the left-hand side,
you can see a lot of resources in place
when it comes on to creating PowerShell DSC.

--- Using VM extensions ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now I want to go through
custom script extensions.
If you're coming from
an easy wonderful background,
you'll be familiar with the usage of
a custom script extension.
With the use of a custom script extension,
you can actually download and run scripts
only as your virtual machine.
Lets say that the first time the machine
is created only as your platform,
you would only ensure that the software
automatically gets installed on the machine.
You can make use of a custom script extension.
You have devised the script thats
gonna run on the machine.
Then the extension will take the script,
run on the machine accordingly.
But its your job to create the script.
So for example it can be used for the
post deployment configuration
costs of the installation on
as your virtual machine.
Now I'm gonna take a used case scenario
as an example for applying this custom
script extension on a machine.
Do you remember earlier on we had
worked with deployment groups,
wherein we had a machine
on a reaching pipeline basically
we were deploying an application on
internet information services.
Then first we would run a script
that would make a machine
part of the deployment group
in as your pipelines
and then in the pipeline itself
we would have a task for
deploying an application on internet
information services only as your vm itself.
This time around, what I wanna do is
I want to automatically ensure that a machine
is registered with a deployment group
and also I want to ensure that the
installed internet information services
and the ESP dot net hosting
bundle automatically with the help
of an extension.
Because early around we have done
all this manually but if you want
to automate this entire process
we can use custom script extension.
So its not the best way to showcase
a way on the usage of custom
script extensions was to go with
this particular scenario.
So lets move onto the next chapter
to understand how we can accomplish this.

--- Lab - Team Services Agent ---

(upbeat music)
-: So again, just to refresh your memory,
early on, we had the use case scenario wherein
we had virtual machines
on which we installed Internet Information Services,
and that ASP.NET hosting bundle that could be used
for hosting an ASP.NET code application.
We added those onto deployment groups.
Under Pipelines, if I go onto Deployment Groups,
I have my Agile Deployment group.
If I go onto it, I have two VMs.
They are offline.
Let me go ahead and delete them
since they are no longer required.
In order to register a machine with the deployment group,
we had to click on register
and basically use a personal access token,
copy the script on the clipboard,
and then run this on the machine itself.
This would ensure
that the machine was made part of the deployment group.
Well, I want to automate this process also
of registering the machine with the deployment group
and I also want to automate the deployment
of Internet Information Services
and also the ASP.NET hosting bundle on the machine
via the use of a custom script extension.
So I first have a script file that is going to run
by the use of the custom script extension
on the Azure virtual machine.
It's a PowerShell script file.
So that extension is just gonna go ahead
and run this file as it is.
Now, what am I doing in this script file?
I'm first using the command of install Windows feature
to install the web server feature
that is Internet Information Services
and also including the management tools.
If you want, you can also write the output saying that
we have installed Internet Information Services.
Next, I want to install the ASP.NET hosting bundle.
For that, I'm gonna download the EXE
for installing that hosting bundle
from our storage account, which we have.
This is going to be downloaded on the Azure virtual machine
in a path D temp.
The first command is to actually create a new directory
on the Azure virtual machine, a temporary directory.
With the help of invoke web request,
we can go onto this URL that is our storage account,
download the EXE,
and it will go into this particular location.
With the help of the start process,
we can go ahead and now invoke that EXE
to install the .NET hosting bundle.
I'm then stopping Internet Information Services
and then starting it again
and then saying we have installed the hosting bundle.
So for this, we need to have that EXE in place
in our storage account.
I have a storage account in place
if I go onto my storage account.
Let me go onto containers and let me create a new container.
Just name this as installers.
Block anonymous read access.
Hit on create.
Let me search for .NET downloads.
Go onto all, .NET six downloads.
Let me go onto the hosting bundle.
I'll keep the file.
So it's downloading the .NET hosting bundle.
I'm gonna upload this onto my storage account.
So let me click on refresh.
Go on to installers and upload that file.
So basically it's in downloads.
I'll choose that particular file, click on upload.
This is done.
Go onto this link, and basically the EXE, copy the URL,
make sure to replace it here so you have the exact URL
in your storage account where you have the EXE in place.
Now go ahead and upload this script also
onto the container.
Going back onto installers,
I'll just upload it in the same container.
So in one of my temporary directories
in custom script extension, I'll upload the script.
So these files are going to be used
for installing Internet Information Services
and the ASP.NET hosting bundle.
Now, we could apply this manually
on an existing virtual machine,
but I wanna show you an ARM template that can be used
for deploying an Azure VM
along with the custom script extension.
But before that, I have a template,
so I have two templates in place.
The first template of both templates
are used for an Azure virtual machine.
Again, we had only seen, or I showed you
how we can deploy an Azure VM by the use of an ARM template.
In this ARM template,
I have an additional extension in place.
The extension I am installing here is a team services agent.
So there is a provision to, you know,
to install an extension on this machine team services agent,
this is not basically a custom script extension.
This is an extension available for the Azure VM.
So instead of actually running that script, right?
What are the script that we wanted to run initially?
So instead of running the script manually,
Azure has this facility wherein you can apply
this team services agent extension on a machine
that will connect the machine onto a deployment group.
Here, what you need to change
is the name of your organization,
the name of your project,
so for me, it's the Agile Project.
What is the name of my deployment group, right?
So it's Agile Deployment.
The agent name, is fine.
It's, the agent name is fine.
And then we need a personal access token.
You can create a new personal access token.
Choose a new token.
Scroll down.
In terms of the scope, we have to look at deployment groups.
So I'll choose read and manage for deployment groups.
Hit on create.
I'll copy the personal access token
and I'll place it here.
This will now deploy the Azure VM
along with that team services agent
that will connect this machine onto the deployment group.
Currently on the Azure platform,
I just have the storage account in place.
In terms of all resources,
I don't have any virtual machine in place.
So let's deploy our ARM template.
I'll hit on create.
Let's choose a template deployment.
Hit on create.
With my own template.
One thing also I have done is in terms of the NSG rules,
I've added a rule to allow traffic on port 80
on this machine.
Let me click on save.
Choose an existing resource group.
Go onto review and create.
Let's go ahead and hit on create.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto all resources, I can see my resources in place.
If I go onto App VM, if I go onto extensions,
I can see the team services agent in place.
And remember what this has done.
Let me go onto my Agile Project.
Under the Pipelines, let's go onto Deployment Groups.
I'll go onto Agile Deployment.
I can see App VM in place.
See, we are talking about
building infrastructure automatically,
and that's why I taught one of the best ways
in terms of using extensions.
We should not use custom script extensions,
we just used an extension when it comes on to the
team services agent.
If you go on to Extensions, if I click on add,
you will see that you can add extensions
to extend the functionality of your Azure virtual machine.
And all we are done is we add the extension of
team services agent and ensure to connect it
onto the deployment group.
Now let's go onto the next chapter
wherein we will implement custom script extensions
to run the script file on our machine
to install Internet Information Services
and the hosting bundle.

--- Lab - Custom Script Extension ---

(bouncy music)
-: So in the prior chapter,
we had seen an ERM template to deploy
the Teams services agent.
I now have the ERM template which has the details,
the same details of the Azure VM.
But here I've included the deployment.
We have our Teams services agent.
I have another extension
when it comes onto the custom script extensions.
Please note that whatever has been deployed
as part of the template, it's not gonna be redeployed.
This is an incremental deployment.
So whatever's there is there.
All it's gonna do, this template is gonna do,
it's gonna add that custom script extension.
In this custom script extension,
we are telling to go ahead
and basically run that script file.
In the command, we are using PowerShell
and the execution policy of unrestricted
to execute that PowerShell script file.
Now when it comes onto the file URI,
here I'm using something known as a shared access signature
to authorize the template to access that particular file.
How can we get this in place?
So I'll delete this,
and let me go over onto
the script file in the storage account.
I'll go on the option of generate SAS.
This will generate a shared access signature.
Again for the perspective of EZ204 and EZ104,
you'll be well aware when it comes
onto the shared access signature.
I'll generate the SAS token and the URL.
When it comes onto the block SAS URL,
I'll copy the entire URL onto the clipboard
and I'll paste it here.
So we have this in place.
Now I'll take this,
and let's again create a template deployment.
(keyboard clicks)
Hit on create.
Go on to save.
Choose my resource group,
go onto view and create.
And let's go ahead and hit on create.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now, once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto the virtual machine,
if you just wanna verify
that information services is in place,
so we can see it is in place.
So that means our script has worked.
Remember, we also have the hosting bundle in place.
If you wanna confirm everything works as expected,
I have the pipeline, which you had seen early on.
This is just taking one of my web applications,
and I wanna deploy it onto the virtual machine
that's part of the deployment group,
so this already has a deployment group job.
I have the task of manage IS and deploy IS.
Let me go ahead and quickly create a release.
So the deployment outta the stage is complete.
I also just had the evaluation of a gate.
I'll just go ahead and click on cancel.
But the main purpose is to check
and see if our application works as expected.
And yes, it is working.
This means that the ASP.NET hosting bundle was
also successfully installed on as Azure virtual Machine.
So I want to kind of use this as an example, this exercise,
to show you how we can use extensions
for Azure virtual machines to automate deployments
of applications that are required on the VM itself.

--- Virtual Machine Scale Sets ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, I want to go through
how we can deploy virtual machine scale sets.
Why the use of an ARM template?
Again, coming from any exam background
you'll be having an idea
when it comes onto the virtual machine scale set.
It's used for scaling your virtual machine infrastructure
whenever it is required.
When the demand is high,
it will increase the number of virtual machines,
where the demand is low,
it'll decrease the number of virtual machines.
Because let's take an example
of an application that is being hosted on Azure VM.
Now, when the load on the VM increases
because the number of users probably using the application
is increasing.
You might want to add one machine onto this entire portfolio
so that the application load can be distributed
across the Azure VMs.
But this is a manual intervention.
You can make use of the virtual machine scale set,
which can automatically increase the number of machines
in the scale set, that is hosting your application.
You can create conditions based on metrics to decide
when to increase the number of machines in your scale set.
You can also put your scale set machines
sitting behind an Azure load balancer,
so that the Azure load balancer can do the job
of distributing the request from users
across your Azure virtual machines
that are running as part of the virtual machine scale set.
So I said we are gonna be looking
at an ARM template deployment,
when it comes onto the virtual machine scale set.

--- ARM Template - Virtual Machine Scale Set ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So in this chapter
I just wanna deploy a virtual machine scale set.
Why the use of ARM template?
Since we are looking at automating the creation
of infrastructure, building up infrastructure,
I have ARM template in place
that will go ahead and deploy a virtual machine scale set
and also a load balancer (indistinct)
in front of the virtual machine scale set.
I'm not going through all of the specifics when it comes
onto the ARM template because that will be more suited
for an ARM template based course.
Here we're looking at how can we automate
our infrastructure when it comes onto the AZ400 exam.
But I go through the different resources that I am creating.
The first resource is a load balancer itself.
We have a front end IP configuration
wherein I'm giving the resource ID of a public IP address.
I'm actually creating the public IP address
at the end of this particular script.
I then have the name of the backend pool I'm creating.
I have a load balancing rule.
In the load balancing rule I'm giving the ID
of the front end IP configuration
and the ID of the backend address pool.
I'm giving these specifics.
So all of this is what you do manually
but we're specifying all of these specifics
when it comes onto the ARM template.
I'm specifying the protocol,
the front end port number, the backend port number.
I have the probe also.
So I've defined the help probe,
which is again listening on port 80.
Then if I scroll down
I have the virtual machine scale set.
Here I'm setting the initial capacity as two.
This means there'll be two instances running
when the virtual machine scale set is spun up.
I'm mentioning what should be the size of each instance
which is part of the virtual machine scale set.
I'm ensuring that the (indistinct) policy is automatic,
so if any updates are carried out
on the virtual machine scale set
those updates will be automatically applied
onto each machine in the scale set itself.
Then I have the OS profile, the network profile.
So all of this is mostly the same
and then I'm creating a virtual network
that is gonna hold the machines
in the virtual machine scale set.
And finally, the public IP address that is gonna be assigned
onto the Azure load balancer.
In Azure, so I don't have any resources in place
just a storage account.
I'll hit on create.
Let's do template deployment, hit on create.
Build my own template in the editor, click on save,
choose my resource group, go onto review and create.
Let me go and hit on create and let's come back
once this is complete.
Once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto all resources,
yeah I can see my virtual machine scale set in place.
If I go onto the instances,
I can see one is in the running state
and it's going at and spinning up another instance
as part of the virtual machine scale set.
So quickly, I wanna show the ARM template that can be used
for deployment of a virtual machine scale set.
But is this enough?
So what's the point of the virtual machine scale set
if we can't deploy applications on it?
So in the next chapter,
similar to what we had done for Azure virtual machines,
wherein we deployed the agent for adding the machine
onto a deployment group and then a custom script extension
for installing internet information services
and the hosting bundle.
We had done that for the virtual machine itself.
Let's now apply the same steps in the next chapter
for a virtual machine scale set.
So let's mark an end to this chapter
wherein we've just gone ahead with the deployment
of the virtual machine scale set itself.
What I'll do is for this point in time,
I'm gonna delete the resources that we create here
because we'll go through another ARM template
in which we'll go ahead and deploy the required extensions.

--- ARM Template - Virtual machine scale set extension ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in this chapter, I wanna showcase the ERM template
for deploying the team services agent
onto the virtual machine scale set so
that each machine can be part of the deployment group
and also to apply a custom script extension wherein
we can install internet information services.
And also the hosting bundle can be installed
on instance of the virtual machine scale set.
So currently I again
don't have any resources as part of my Azure account.
If I go onto my project, let me go
onto my deployment groups, I'll go onto agile deployment.
I'll just delete app PM so
that we don't have any targets in place.
Now, when it comes onto the ERM template
most of the aspects remain the same.
The thing which changes is as part of the deployment
of the virtual machine scale set, if I scroll down
I have an extension profile
in place in which I can now deploy extensions.
The extension that we have is the same
the team services agent, which will ensure
that the machine gets added onto the deployment group.
I've added the details about the team project
the deployment group, and also the personal access token
which will allow the machines to attach themselves
onto the deployment group.
And then I have another extension that can be applied
in the same template.
This time it is the custom script extension
and the same aspect we are providing the file URI
which is again, nothing but the shared access signature.
I've gone ahead and copied the same shared access
signature that we had in the template
for the virtual machine deployment.
In case, if you can't find the shared access signature
you can always go ahead
and generate a new shared access signature when it comes
onto the PowerShell script file that is stored
in your storage account.
So now let me go ahead and take all of this.
Let's create a new template deployment.
Hit on create, build my own template.
Let's paste all of this.
Let's go onto view and create.
Let me go ahead and hit on create
and let's come back once this is complete.
Now, once the deployment is complete
if I refresh the dashboard when it comes onto all
of my resources, if I go onto the virtual machine scale set
if I go onto the instances,
I can see two instances in place.
If I go onto my deployment group
currently I can see four instances in place.
Let me refresh this entire page again.
So the two that are basically healthy online
the other are offline.
When it comes onto the virtual machine scale set
when it starts creating the machines
as part of the scale set.
Normally an over scaling is done first initially
where you have multiple instances
which are in the ready state
before it goes down onto the actual number of machines
that should be part of the virtual machine scale set.
That is why you are seeing an increased number
of machines as part of the scale set.
Because initially it might have tried to
deploy four machines.
This is how these scale set actually works.
But in the end, because I had mentioned
that the count of machine should only be two
that's why we only have two healthy machines
as part of the virtual machine scale set and two machines
basically part of our deployment group.
Now, if you wanna verify that even the other extension
of internet information services is also working
on this machine.
And also the hosting bundle.
I'm using the pipeline that we had seen earlier on,
which was deploying an application.
via a deployment group job.
And if you look at the deployment group job
it's deploying the application
onto the agile deployment group.
So let me go ahead
and quickly create a release just to confirm
that the same thing which we had carried
out as part of the virtual machine works,
also for the virtual machine scale set.
Here you will notice that as part of the release
it's trying to release it onto four targets.
So two are gonna pass and two are gonna fail
because we have two offline virtual machines
as part of the virtual machine scale set.
So what you could do is you could probably have a task
within your pipeline to check
for those agents that are offline
and then remove them accordingly.
So here if I go on to the stage, if I go onto the logs
you will see two have failed and two have succeeded.
Let me now go onto the load balancer
which is sitting in front of the virtual machine scale set.
If I go onto the front end IP configuration
take the IP address, go onto new tab.
I can see the homepage of our application.
Remember now this application is running
on the machines that are part of your
virtual machine scale set and the traffic
to these machines is being directed
by the load balancer that is sitting
in front of the scale set itself.
So in this chapter, I wanna show you the same way
in which we had install the extensions
for the virtual machine can also be done
for your virtual machine scale set.

--- Note - VMSS - Application Health Extension ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
I just wanna give a quick note
where it comes onto the health of the scale set.
You have something known
as an application health extension.
You can use this to monitor the health
of your individual instances.
See, you have basically virtual machines
as part of the virtual machine scale set.
If you wanna monitor whether the instances
are healthy or not, you can do this
with the health or the application health extension.
This can be useful when it comes onto the rolling upgrades
that are carried out for your instances.
You can also monitor the application health of each instance
in a scale set and perform instance repairs.
I just quickly wanna show you where
you can configure the application health
for a virtual machine scale set.
In the earlier chapter,
I actually spun up a virtual machine scale set
via the use of ARM template.
If you go onto the scale set itself
there is an aspect known as health and repair.
Go onto it.
Here you can enable application health monitoring.
If I click on enable
here we are the application health extension.
Here when I click on enable
we can see the application health extension
and, what this will do is it'll monitor the virtual machines
in the virtual machine scale set
based on the STP protocol
and the port number of port 80.
So in our case
because we have internet information services
running on the virtual machines that are part
of the virtual machine scale set,
when the scale set tries to contact the virtual machines
why STP protocol it'll get a successful response back.
But let's say one of the machines has actually gone down.
So when the scale set tries to contact that machine
on port number 80, it'll figure out
that the machine is basically not in a healthy state.
And then it'll try and automatic repair.
So you can go at and enable automatic repairs
when it comes onto machines set are part
of your virtual machine scale set.
In this chapter,
I just wanna kind of give this quick note
where it comes onto the application health extension.

--- The fear of changes ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters
we're gonna go through examples
when it comes onto deployment strategies
for updates to an application.
See, let's say that you have an application in place
that is being hosted on an Azure web app
and it's connecting onto an Azure SQL database.
Now, the user basically asks for some changes,
to the application, maybe new features need to be added,
and you need to make some code changes
and then promote those code changes
onto the Azure DevOp, basically onto your web applications.
Now, there's always a fear factor in place
when changes need to be made onto an existing application,
because what happens if the change fails?
If the code that has been published,
the new code that has been published, stops the application,
than the application is not accessible
onto customers and they're not happy with what has happened.
And then this becomes a risk onto the business
because customers are not happy
with the problems that are occurring
when changes are being made onto an application.
That is why companies strive a lot
to make changes as seamless, as possible.
So, there's always that fear factor in place
when it comes on to making changes to an application.
That's why companies employ
different sort of deployment strategies
when it comes on to making these application changes.
And, this is something that we're gonna look
in the subsequent chapters.

--- Blue-Green Deployments ---

(Introduction Music)
-: Now in this chapter,
I want to go through a deployment strategy
that's known as the blue-green deployment.
In this strategy, again
let's say you have a web application in place
it is being hosted on an Azure web app.
Now all of your users are directed
onto this particular environment.
This is your current production environment.
Sometimes this can also be termed
as the blue environment when all of your users
are currently targeting the application
that is running on this environment.
So let's say the developers had made changes
to the application and the basic tests have been conducted.
In order to make sure that the application
the new application version works as desired,
you can build up a new environment
known as the green environment
that'll have the newer version of your application running.
This kind of a duplicate setup
but you have the newer application version running here.
All of your users are still using the older version
of the application in the current production environment.
Then on the green environment, you'll do some sanity checks.
You know you'll do some basic checks.
Once the testing is complete, the basic checks are complete,
you will then switch your users to go ahead
and access the green environment
the newer application version environment.
This now becomes your current production environment.
There are mechanisms in place in which you can switch
over your users from one environment onto the other.
It depends on what is a service you are using
when it comes on to directing traffic to your application
On Azure, there are various ways
you can actually go about doing this.
When you're using a blue-green deployment,
one of the biggest advantage is the quick switch over
that you can make for users
from one environment onto the other.
You are not looking at a long downtime when it comes
on to promoting a newer application version.
See, let's say you don't have this concept
of the blue-green deployment in place.
You just have one environment and now you need
to publish a newer version of the application.
Sometimes, in order to promote this newer version
what you might need to do first is you might need
to stop the web application
so that it doesn't take current request from your users.
So this is a downtime for the application.
Then you might take backups of, let's say the data
or anything else just to make sure that you have a backup
in place and then you'll promote
the newer version of your application.
You will then do sanity checks just to make sure
that the application is working as expected
and then you can make your users
access the newer version of this application.
So this could be a downtime anywhere from
let's say, 15 minutes to half an hour.
Again, depending upon the application itself.
In this particular situation
when you're using a blue-green deployment
it becomes much more faster to switch the users
from one environment onto the other
so the downtime is decreased.
Another advantage is, let's say
in the extreme situation, the green environment
the new environment is not working, as expected.
You still have the older environment in place.
You can do a switch back very easily
onto the older version of the application just to ensure
that the users can still access the application
without any issues.
One of the downsides
of the Blue Green environment is obviously the cost
because at any point in time
you'll be having two environments
in place when in fact only one of them is gonna be accessed.
And if you have a complex architecture
when it comes on to your application
then you'll have more infrastructure components
that will be running at a time, and that means more cost.
It all depends on how critical your application is.
If you have a revenue generating application that's critical
in order to reduce the amount of downtime
then you can go ahead
and think about using the deployment strategy
of blue-green deployments.
Now, in the next chapter, I'll show you an aspect
or a feature that's available
when it comes onto Azure web apps
when it comes onto magic blue-green deployments.

--- Azure Web App - Deployment Slots ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, we wanna look at an example
when it comes on to managing blue-green deployments.
When it comes on to the Azure Web App Service,
we can make use of deployment slots.
If you are coming from, again, an AZ-104 background
or an AZ-204 background,
you'll all be familiar with the use of deployment slots.
So we'll go through a quick revision.
In the next chapter,
we look at a quick lab
on working with deployment slots.
Again, this will be a revision.
And then, in the subsequent chapter
we'll see how to use deployment slots
when it comes onto Azure pipelines.
With the feature of deployment slots
in your App Service plans,
which are attached onto your web apps,
you can have staging environments in place
when it comes onto your web applications.
So, when you have an Azure Web App in place,
by default it'll have a production slot.
And let's say, you've deployed version one
of your application.
When you want to deploy the next version
of the application itself,
you can create something known as a slot
within the Azure Web App itself.
This is like creating an entire, new Azure Web App area,
in which you can publish the new version
of your application.
You can then validate all of the application changes
in that staging deployment slot,
and then you can perform a quick swap
between the staging and the production slot.
So at one point in time,
your users will be accessing
let's say, a version one of the application.
When you perform a swap of these slots,
users will then be accessing version two
of your application.
This eliminates the downtime
for the application when new changes are being deployed.
And obviously, you can do a swap back.
I said, in case version two of your application
is not working as expected,
you can always roll back the changes.
Again, perform a swap.
This feature just has a note,
when it comes onto your deployment slots,
is only available in the Standard App Service Plan
or higher.
So, you can't use the Free App Service Plan.
You can't use a Shared, you can't use a Basic.
You need to have the Standard App Service Plan or higher.
In the next chapter,
let's have, again, a quick clap, a quick review,
when it comes onto deployment slots.

--- Lab - Azure Web App - Deployment Slots ---

(upbeat intro music)
-: So in this chapter, let's look
at a lap when it comes on to working with deployment slots
in the Azure Web App Service.
In the Azure portal first of all, in all resources,
I'll create a new Azure Web App.
(instructor clicking mouse)
I'll choose an existing resource group that I have.
(keyboard typing sounds)
I'll just give a unique web app name.
runtime stack choose .Net6.
Just change my location.
in terms of the app service plan,
I'm going to leave it as standard S1.
You need to have the standard app service plan or higher
when it comes on to working with deployment slots.
Go on Next for deployment.
Go on to Networking,
monitoring. Just for now,
I'll turn off Application insights,
go on tags, go onto Review and Create.
And then we go and hit on Create.
While this is being done in Visual Studio 2022
I'll quickly just create a new project based
on the simple ASP.NET code template,
choosing ASP.NET
Go onto Next,
(keyboard typing sounds)
just give an application name.
Let's create the project,
just a simple application.
I'll go onto the Index page.
I'll say (typing into keyboard sounds)
"Deployment application Version one."
I'll save this.
Once I have the web app in place,
let's go onto the resource.
Let me take the URL,
go onto a new tab.
Just to verify that we have the default web app running.
This is fine.
In Visual Studio, I'll right click on My project.
I'll choose the Publish option.
I'll create a new published profile.
I'll choose a Azure, go onto Next
Azure App Service Windows, go onto Next.
In template grp, I'll choose my deployment app.
Hit on Finish
and then I'll choose Publish.
This will publish our application onto the Azure Web App.
Once Publish is complete, it'll open up the Edge browser
on my system, I can refresh this page as well.
So I can see deployment application version one.
Now, before I go into deployment slots
I'm going to add a custom domain for my Azure Web App
this for a domain that I've purchased
from an external domain provider.
Just to give you a sense
when it comes on to switching versions of your applications
I just want to have a situation wherein we have a domain.
So let's say users are accessing your application
via this domain name cloudhublearning.com
So normally your users will be accessing
a user friendly domain name
to access your web application.
I'm going to mark this onto my Azure web App
as a custom domain.
Again, you don't need to go ahead and do this
just to give you a sense when it comes
onto swapping your applications, the different versions,
I'm going to make use of a custom domain.
So I need to map this onto my a Azure Web App.
So I have a domain name that I purchased
from an external domain provider.
This domain provider allows me to
manage the DNS records for this domain.
I need to set the DNS records appropriately
so that it can map onto my Azure Web App.
So let me go onto my web app.
There is a setting known as Custom domains.
I'll add a custom domain.
It is cloudhublearning.com.
I'm going to place it as dubdubdub.cloudhublearning.com.
I'll click on Validate.
Initially, it's going to fail when it comes
onto the domain ownership
because we need to add some records over here.
I need to add a record of the type txt.
This is going to be the host value.
I'll just copy this here in DNS management.
I'll add a record. It's a txt record.
I'll copy that name.
In terms of the value, it's actually this value.
I'll just close this for the moment.
I'm going to copy this entire custom domain verification ID
place it here and add the record.
So this is done.
So even though it says it'll take an hour
normally it refreshes quite quickly.
I'll go back, again,
let me hit on Adding a custom domain.
(keyboard typing sounds)
So cloudhublearning.com.
Just click on Validate again.
So in terms of the host name record type,
I'm choosing See name.
Okay, now scroll down
And you can see now the host name availability
and the domain ownership is working as expected.
I can then click on Add custom domain.
So Azure Web App was able to verify that we own the domain
because we had added this particular record
in the DNS management for the domain itself.
Once you have the domain name in place
I'm going to go on to DNS management.
Again, from my domain name,
I'm going to add another record.
This is going to be a C name record "dubdubdub."
I need to point my domain onto this URL.
Go onto the beginning.
So I'm just trying to point my domain onto my Azure Web App.
I'll click on Add record.
This is done.
Now, once you have this in place, let me just wait
for a couple of minutes for this to take effect.
Now at some time in another tab
if I go onto dubdubdub.cloudhublearning.com.
So it's saying, "The connection is not private"
and that's because I have not set up HTPs.
I can go onto Advance.
I can proceed onto cloudhublearning.com
and I can see my deployment application in place.
So now my site is pointing onto my Azure Web App.
Now let's create a deployment slot
or I can go onto deployment slots for the Azure Web App.
We are able to create a slot here, and that's
because we are using the Standard app service plan
or higher, when it comes onto Azure Web App.
We can see our main application
is part of this production slot.
I'll add a slot.
I'll give a name of Staging.
You can see that we are getting now a new URL.
We have the name of our Azure Web App
along with the name of the slot .azurewebsites.net.
I'll click on Add.
It's like adding a new Azure Web App,
but within your original web app itself,
you will be having two slots in place.
One is your production slot
and the other is going to be your staging slot.
Once you have these slot in place
you will see you have the staging slot here.
Onto My application.
Let me go onto the Index page and make a change.
I'll make this as version two.
Click on Save.
I'll right click and publish my project again.
I'm going to create a new publish profile.
I want to now publish the new version
of my application onto the staging slot.
Again, I'll choose Azure App Service go onto Next.
Under My deployment app
now I can see deployment slots.
I can choose the staging slot, hit on Finish
and then click on Publish.
This is publishing the new version of my application
onto the staging slot for my Azure Web App.
Once the deployment is complete,
again, it'll open up the Edge browser.
It'll take me onto the staging slot.
So recognize a different URL.
Let me copy this and go onto the Chrome browser.
So we are on cloudhublearning.com
if you know that all of our users are still pointing
onto version one of our deployment application.
If I go onto New tab here,
this for the staging slot.
This now contains the newer version of the application.
So now you can conduct a sort of sanity check
on this newer version of the application
in this staging slot.
Once the testing is complete and you are sure
that you now want to move this newer version
of the application onto your production slot,
you can perform a swap.
You can now perform a swap when it comes onto your
production and your staging slot.
I can choose a swap option here.
I'm swapping the staging slot with the production slot.
I'll hit on the Swap option.
So this is like having a blue-green deployment
in place wherein the blue environment
for us was our production slot wherein all
of our users were accessing the web application here.
And then we have our staging slot that was behaving
as our green environment
and now we are performing a swap when it comes
onto the blue and the green environment when it comes
onto our staging slots.
Once this is complete
it just took a minute, I'll hit on Close.
If I go on to Mydeploymentapp.azurewebsites.net
that was pointing onto version one.
You can see now it is pointing onto version two.
If I go onto the staging slot URL
if I refresh this page, it'll reflect version one, shortly.
Yes, version one.
If I go onto cloudhublearning.com
this is the URL my users are accessing.
Earlier it was version one,
now it is version two.
So within a flick of a switch,
you are able to swap the newer version of your application
with the earlier version of the application.
And at any point in time you can do a swap back.
In case the newer version does not work as expected,
you can go in and perform again
a swap of your production and your staging slot.
So this is kind of a quick revision first
on the usage of deployment slots.
In the next chapter,
let's see how we can implement a scenario
by the use of Azure Pipelines.

--- Lab - Azure Pipelines - Deployment Slots ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the earlier chapter,
we had seen an example
when it came onto working with deployment slots.
In this chapter, let's go ahead
and see how we can work with slots
when it comes on to Azure Pipelines.
Firstly, I'll go onto my staging slot.
Let me delete the slot.
We're gonna recreate this slot
when it comes on to our pipeline.
I'll hit on the delete option.
Just give the name of my deployment slot.
And hit on Delete.
So we'll only be having now the current production version
of our application in place.
In Visual Studio,
what I'll do is let me publish the project
that I have, this deployment app
onto Azure Repos as a Git repository.
I'll create a Git repository.
Choose Azure DevOps.
My organization and my project.
Let me do a create and a push.
Once this is complete,
if I go on to my deployment slots also,
let me hit on Refresh to see if staging has been deleted.
So yes, this is done.
If I go on to my repos in my Agile project,
let me see if I have my deployment app in place.
Yes, it is in place.
Let me quickly set up a build.
ASP.NET Core.
In the pipeline, I'll just replace the pipeline
with what we've been seeing earlier on.
When it comes to using .NET Core CLI to build our project,
to publish the project
onto the build artifacts staging directory
and then publish it onto the pipeline
here in terms of the artifact.
I'll name this as Deployment App.
Let me do a save and a run
so that we have the initial build in place
when it comes onto our project application.
And then we'll start with the release pipeline.
Once the job is complete,
let me go ahead and create now a new release pipeline.
Start with an empty job.
I'll just name this as Deployment App Pipeline.
Here in terms of the first stage,
I'll say deployment to slot.
Let me click on Save.
Let me add an artifact.
Choose my deployment app.
Click on Add.
Enable continuous deployment trigger.
Let's click on Save quickly.
Here in terms of deployment onto a slot,
the first task I'm gonna add is an Azure CLI task.
This will be used to first create our staging slot.
There is currently no task
for creating the staging slot,
so we can use Azure CLI to achieve the same.
Go on to the task,
so I'll say create staging slot.
Choose my connection.
In the script type, choose PowerShell
and inline script,
I'm just adding the command.
It's AZ Web App deployment slot create.
I'm giving the name of the app
for which I want to create a slot,
the resource group and what is the name of the slot.
Just click on Save.
I'll then add the task to deploy my application
onto the staging slot.
I'll choose an Azure App Service deploy.
I'll say staging slot.
Choose my subscription.
Scroll down.
Choose my app service.
Here now I'll say deploy to slot or app service environment.
I can now choose my resource group
and then choose the slot.
Here you won't have the slot in place
so I'll just hard code the name of the slot
because we are creating the slot in the first step.
I'll click on Save.
So the first stage is to create your staging slot
and then deploy the new version of your application
onto the staging slot.
I'll go back on to the pipeline.
You can now add a post-deployment approval.
So you have your application running in the staging slot.
Then you might have a test conducted
for the application in the staging slot.
Before going on to the next stage,
you can have an approval in place.
So I'll choose TOC user.
Click on Save.
I can now add another stage.
This will be to swap the slots.
Click on Save.
I'll go on to the agent job.
Let me add a task.
Near the task, I need to search for
is Azure App Service Manage.
Click on Add.
Let's choose to swap the slots.
Choose my Azure subscription.
In the action, I can choose to swap the slot,
so you have a lot of actions available here.
Choose my app service name.
The resource group.
Choose my slot, which I can't see here
because we are gonna be recreating
or creating that slot,
so I'll put the name of the slot
as the staging slot.
This is gonna be swapped with the production slot.
So I'll click on Save.
If you want now,
you can add an agentless job.
In the agentless job,
let me add a manual intervention task.
This manual intervention is just to conduct
a sanity check.
So once the slots have been swapped,
the staging and the production,
just conduct a quick sanity check
just to ensure the production slot
is now working as expected.
Basically, the newer version of the application.
Just put the instructions here.
Click on Save.
And then let me add another agent job.
We can use this now to delete the staging slot.
So this is up to you.
You can have another job to delete the staging slot
once you've confirmed everything is working as expected.
Here I'll choose Azure CLI.
Click on Add.
This is going to be used to delete the staging slot
once everything is confirmed.
Choose my subscription, choose PowerShell.
An inline script,
to delete the slot,
it's an AZ Web App deployment slot delete,
the name of my application, the resource group
and the name of my slot.
Let's click on Save.
So now we have multiple jobs in place running
as part of the stage and we have different tasks.
You may now go onto the pipeline.
So we have our pipeline in place
in another tab.
Lemme now go on to my repository.
Let me make a quick change onto the pages.
Click on Edit.
And put this as version three.
So currently, our application is pointing on to version two.
I'll do a commit.
This will trigger our build
and then it will trigger our release.
Let me come back once I have a release
in place for my deployment app pipeline.
So I've come back.
The release has started.
My deployment onto the slot stage is also complete.
Just to confirm, if I refresh the deployment slots
in my Azure Web App,
I can see my staging slot in place
if I go on to it and take the URL just to confirm.
Take the URL.
Go on to a new tab.
I can see version three of my application.
Let me go ahead now
and override the approval and approve it myself
as the admin, something that I can do.
It'll now go on to the next stage.
The first task remember is to swap the slots.
So after some time, the first job is complete,
which was to swap the slots.
Now it's pending an intervention
when it comes onto the manual task.
Let me confirm on to cloudhublearning.com.
Has it done a swap of the slots?
And yes, because now version three is in my production slot.
If I cross-verify my staging slot,
I should be having version two of my application.
As expected.
Let me go back and hit on Resume.
So job two is also complete.
And now it should go on to job three,
which would be to delete my staging slot.
So this task is also complete.
If I go on to my deployment slots
for my Azure Web App, let me hit on Refresh
and I don't have the staging slot in place.
So in this chapter,
I wanna kind of give you an example
on how you can make use of deployment slots
in your pipeline.

--- Canary deployments ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter, I just briefly wanna go through
another type of deployment that you have.
This is known as a canary deployment.
Again, let's consider that you have an application.
This is running in your production environment,
and all of your users are accessing the application itself.
Now, when a new feature needs to be made available
for the application to your users,
when it comes onto a canary deployment,
this new feature is made available
only onto a subset of users.
So maybe only 10% of your users
will be able to see the new feature of your application.
Now, there are multiple ways
in which you could go about doing this.
You could have another environment in place,
again a duplicate environment of your application
which has the newer feature,
and then direct a percentage of these users
onto the newer environment.
The feature can be tested out,
and then maybe gradually you can move all of your users
onto the newer environment,
or you could have featured toggles within your application.
You can have, this is something that you need to embed
within your application,
where you can just have a simple on and off switch
when it comes on to enabling features for certain users.
But yeah, the entire idea is kind of a gradual way
of implementing the newer feature
for your application to your users.
Initially, you'll have few users who'll have access
onto that new feature,
and if it is working as expected,
it can then be rolled out onto all of your users
who are using your application.
Now in these subsequent chapters,
we are gonna be looking at another routing tool
that's available in Azure,
that is the Azure Traffic Manager,
and how it can be used
when it comes on to building up deployment strategy.

--- Azure Traffic Manager ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in the subsequent chapters, we are gonna see
how we can use Azure Traffic Manager.
When it comes onto routing traffic,
Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based load balancer.
Here you can distribute traffic
to public-facing applications
across different Azure regions.
And in Azure Traffic Manager,
you have something known as routing methods
that allow you to route traffic.
Now, if you're coming from an Azure background,
you might be having knowledge
on the working of Azure Traffic Manager.
In the next, chapter we'll have kind of a revision,
where you will have a lab on the implementation
of Azure Traffic Manager, and subsequently
we'll see how to use this particular service
when it comes onto a Azure Pipeline.
In Azure Traffic Manager, you have,
I said different sort of routing methods,
for example, if you choose the priority routing method
for an Azure Traffic Manager profile.
You can have multiple apps
sitting behind Azure Traffic Manager.
This could be hosting your web application.
Your users will be directed first
onto the Traffic Manager profile,
and then based on the routing method,
the Traffic Manager profile will direct users
onto the backend end-points.
If you choose the priority routing method,
you can choose one application as the primary target
when it comes onto the request.
So let's say that you have a priority of one.
When it comes onto an Azure web app
running in the North Europe location,
all of your users will be directed
onto that Azure web app.
You can then have another Azure web app
running in a different location.
You can give this as a priority of two.
If for example, something goes wrong
with the application running in the primary region,
then Azure Traffic Manager can start directing request
onto the application, the Azure web app,
that has the second priority
running in a different location.
So this is like an active-passive setup,
in case if your first set-up, your first Azure web app
is not running as expected,
let's say the North Europe location has gone down,
the services have gone down,
the Traffic Manager profile runs at the global level,
so it is not impacted by North Europe region going down.
Then the Traffic Manager profile can direct requests
onto the Azure web app running in a different location.
Another example of another routing method
is the weighted routing method.
This can be useful when it comes
onto your canary deployments.
Here you will have your applications,
again running on multiple Azure web apps,
in different locations.
In the weighted routing method, you can give a weightage
onto the end-points that are running behind the profile.
For example, you can give a weightage
of let's say 1,000 onto the application
running in the North Europe location,
and a weightage of just one to the web app
running in the UK South location.
That means almost all of your users will be directed
onto the Azure web app that has a higher weightage.
Let's say in the canary deployment.
you have deployed a new feature onto this Azure web app,
and you want a subset of your users
to be directed onto this web application,
you can increase the weightage accordingly.
You can probably put this as 100,
you can leave this as 1,000.
What the Traffic Manager profile will do is,
it will calculate the percentage
based on the weightage and direct the traffic accordingly.
And if you want now all of your users
to be directed onto the new application
which has the new features, you can put this as a 1,000,
and you can put this as one,
you can change the weightage accordingly.
So, there are multiple routing methods in place,
when it comes onto the Azure Traffic Manager service,
based on your routing needs,
you can choose the routing method accordingly.

--- Lab - Azure Traffic Manager ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in this chapter,
I want to go through a lab when it comes on to
Azure Traffic Manager, basically how do we use it.
And then in the next chapter
we'll go through how we can use a Azure Traffic Manager
within our pipeline.
I'm gonna make use of an existing Azure Web App
that I have first of all, this was
what we had seen in an earlier chapter.
This was my Deployment App.
This is running in the North Europe location.
If I take the URL, I go onto a new tab.
They should be having version three of my Application
this is fine.
Let me go onto all resources
and let me create another Azure Web App.
So we are gonna be using the Weighted routing method
when it comes onto our Traffic Manager Profile.
For this, we are gonna have two a Azure Web Apps
running in different locations.
We'll direct a percentage of traffic
onto one a Azure Web App,
and another percentage of traffic onto another
Azure Web App.
For this, we need to have two a Azure Web Apps running.
This should be in different locations.
I'll choose a Web App here.
I can choose my existing resource group, that's fine.
I can put Deployment App 1000, staging
in the runtime stack, I'll choose .NET6,
this needs to be in a different location.
I'm gonna choose UK South.
It'll create a New App Service plan,
I'm gonna leave it as it is.
Go onto Deployment, onto Networking, onto Monitoring,
I'll turn off Application insights.
Let me go onto review
and create and let me create this Web App.
So we're gonna have two Web Apps in place.
In Visual Studio wherein I have my Deployment App in place
which we had seen early on.
I'm gonna promote this onto the New Web App
that we just created, that's Deployment 1000 Staging.
I'll put this as version four.
So currently our production version of the Application
is version three. Just Click on Save.
Just waiting for the Deployment of
our new Azure Web App to complete.
Once this is done, I can go onto the Resource.
In Visual Studio, I'll right Click and hit on Publish.
I'm gonna create now a new published profile.
I'll choose a Azure, Go onto Next, Azure App service,
Go onto Next.
Here I cannot see my new Web App.
Sometimes it can take time.
In case if it is not coming up for you,
one way to go about publishing your Application
is within your App service itself.
There is something known as a Get Published profile,
Click on this.
It'll download the publish settings for the profile
onto your local machine.
I'll copy this onto one of my temporary directories.
So I just copy onto one of my temporary directories.
Just close this.
In Visual Studio
I'll again choose to create a new published profile.
This time I'll choose to import the profile, go onto Next.
I can doze now for the publish settings that I have
in that temporary directory.
So going on to the Directory, choosing the File,
Clicking on Open, hit on Finish
and it'll now create a New Published Profile,
based on those settings. I can Click on Publish.
So another way in which
you can actually create your published profile
from within Visual Studio to promote your project onto
your Azure Web App.
Please note here I'm not making use currently of
the Gate repository
even though you can see there is a check mark
or tick mark symbol here that a change has been made.
I'm trying to do this manually first to show you
how do you use Azure Traffic Manager.
So we have our staging Web App os in place
with a new version of the Application, right?
So that's fine.
Let me go onto All Resources. Let me create a New Resource,
I'll choose Traffic Manager.
So I want to create a Traffic Manager Profile.
I'll choose this particular service. Hit on Create.
Just give a name of Deployment profile
in the routing method,
there are different routing methods in place.
I'm gonna choose the weighted routing method.
Yeah, I only need to choose my resource group.
I don't need to choose the location.
Traffic Manager is created at the global level.
Let me hit on Create.
Let's wait till we have
the Traffic Manager Profile in place.
Once a Deployment is complete, I can go onto the Resource.
So we are taken onto the profile for Traffic Manager.
Now you can see a DNS name has been applied
onto the Traffic Manager Profile.
Your users now will actually go onto this DNS name
and then Traffic Manager will route request
onto the Appropriate Web App depending upon
the routing method that is chosen.
The next step for me is to go onto the configuration.
In the configuration, in the end point monitoring settings
I need to changes onto STPs,
that's because our Azure Web Apps are listening
on the STPs protocol.
In terms of the port, I need to change it onto 443,
let me Click on Save.
Once I have this in place, I even now go onto the end points
and add both of my Azure Web Apps has endpoints
onto the Traffic Manager Profile.
I'm gonna Click on add, in terms of the type,
it's an Azure endpoint.
Let me name this as Production,
in the target resource type I'll choose an App Service,
I'll choose my Deployment App that I can see
in terms of the weightage, I'll put this as thousand.
I also need to now put the customer header settings.
The way we do this is we add basically the host name
for Deployment App.
I can just copy the URL,
place it here,
just delete this. So if we just have the name,
we need to have this custom header settings in place.
Let me Click on add.
So add advantage of a weightage of a thousand.
What is doing now? It is checking the health of the endpoint
I'll just hit on refresh.
So it's still checking the endpoint.
Let me Click on add.
Let's see if I can search for the other service
so it is taking time.
Let me refresh this entire page.
I wanna make sure that I can add my staging Web App
that I create has an endpoint.
Let me Click on Add again, see if I can choose
it has an App service, so it is taking time.
So what I'll do is let me just wait for a couple of minutes
and then come back
till I can get the target resource over here.
So I just waited for a couple of minutes.
I refresh the page.
I'm gonna add now another end point.
I'll name this as staging, any target resource type
again, the App service.
This time I can see my staging App in place.
In terms of the weightage
I'll put a very low weightage of just one.
I need to put the host headers here as well.
In another tab, if I go onto the staging one.
So just copy this onto to the clipboard, add it here
make sure it's formatted properly. Click on Add.
So we are adding now another endpoint.
We're gonna have two endpoints in place.
One is the production endpoint
that is pointing onto our production Azure Web App
and the staging which is pointing to let's say
a Web App that has a newer version of our Application.
So it's currently checking the endpoint
the health of the endpoint.
If you go onto the production endpoint
you can see the monitoring status is showing us online.
You can see the weightage is 1000
and it's 140 staging endpoint.
Again, just to confirm, if I take the URL,
of staging endpoint, it has version four of our Application.
So when using the Traffic Manager Profile,
I told you that all of your users
will be directed on the URL that is attached onto the
Traffic Manager Profile.
Since the routing method we have chosen is the
weightage routing method,
and since we put a very high weightage
for the production endpoint, all of our users
are gonna be directed onto
our original Deployment App 1000.
So let's assume now we have a newer version
of our Application that is promoted onto our staging App
and we added that as the end point here
with a very low weightage.
If we want more and more users
to be directed onto our staging endpoint
to test the newer version of the Application,
we have to go ahead and increment the weightage accordingly.
At this point in time,
I'm just waiting for the endpoint to be online,
so it is online.
Let me go onto the overview,
take the DNS name off the Traffic Manager Profile
go onto a new tab.
This is fine. I'll go on advance, Click on Proceed
and I can see Deployment Application version three.
This is our production based Application.
At any point in time now,
I can go onto the Traffic Manager Profile,
let me go onto the staging endpoint.
I can change the weightage accordingly.
Now it becomes difficult to simulate the condition
wherein we are gonna be directed because see,
I am working from a single machine,
it's only me has the user.
And sometimes you to also note that your machine
so if you're working from a laptop,
if you go onto URL in the browser,
the browser might actually cache the results
of the site you are browsing to.
It's only when you have multiple users accessing the
profile endpoint, the DNS name.
Then you will see some users being directed onto, let's say
the staging version of your Application
and other users being directed
onto the production version of your Application.
So let's say that I put the weightage as a hundred
and Click on Save.
That means based on a hundred percentage calculation
there'll be certain number of users
now being directed onto the staging endpoint and
certain number of users, a majority of users
still going onto the production endpoint.
If I take the URL and go in the Edge browser
go onto the same URL, go onto advance,
continue onto the traffic manager
I can still see I'm getting version three of the Application
because it's only me has the single user.
I said, when you have more and more users
using your Application, you'll have a fraction of users
that will be seeing version four of your Application
and still a majority of users seeing version three
of your Application.
If I go ahead and change the production endpoint now
from a vantage of a thousand onto one Click on Save
and go onto the staging endpoint
and put a weightage of a thousand.
So it's kind of swapping them around.
If I refresh the page for the Traffic Manager Endpoint
I can now see I am being directed onto version four
of the Application because we had put a higher weightage
for that particular endpoint.
So you can play around with the weightage
when it comes onto using this particular routing method.
Hence, you can use this sort of setup
when it comes onto a Canary Deployment Method.
You can also use it for Bluegreen Deployments as well.
So this chapter, wanna go through the manual process
on how you can kind of implement this particular setup.
In the next chapter, let's go ahead and see
how we can implement this via the use of Azure Pipelines.

--- Lab - Azure Pipelines - Azure Traffic Manager ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Now, in the prior chapter,
we had looked at the manual process
when it comes onto
working with the Traffic Manager profile.
In this chapter, let's see how we can implement something
via the use of Azure Pipelines in the release,
in the classic release.
For my current Traffic Manager profile
I'm gonna go onto the production endpoint
and put the original weightage of 1000
and click on save.
If I go back onto the profile,
since both have a weightage of 1000.
That means if you look at an overall percentage,
a hundred percentage,
half of the traffic is gonna go onto the production endpoint
and half the traffic is gonna go onto the staging endpoint.
I'm gonna go onto the staging endpoint,
I'm gonna delete this endpoint.
Let me click on yes.
So let's assume the situation wherein,
for your Traffic Manager profile
this is your original setup.
Wherein you have a profile in place
you have your Azure Web App in place.
It's the production version of your application
and all of your traffic
is only going onto the production endpoint, that's it.
In our pipeline now,
we're gonna have a stage that's gonna create
a new endpoint in the Traffic Manager profile.
This is gonna be a staging endpoint.
So let's say in your release pipeline,
you are ready to deploy
the staging version of your application.
You'll only have the Azure Web App in place.
I won't simulate that,
cause we already know how we can get a staging
Azure Web App in place if we wanna deploy one.
But we will keep our staging web app, right?
We'll assume that it's already there.
We are just gonna promote the newer version
of our application onto this Azure Web App,
and then create an endpoint
in the Traffic Manager profile.
That will be one stage.
We can set the weightage accordingly.
Then let's say that users will now conduct testing.
You will have an approval in place as part of the stage
and in the next stage you can go ahead
and change the weightage accordingly.
And we're gonna do all of this
via the use of PowerShell.
Again, there is no direct method
or task to work with Azure Traffic Manager
from the pipeline,
but we can always make use of scripts,
having seen earlier on.
I could use Azure CLI to achieve this,
but I just wanna show you that you can use PowerShell
as your modules as well.
You have to ensure that you have flexibility in place
when it comes onto what you can use to work with pipeline.
We can see it is endless in nature.
You don't need to depend only on the task that is available
as part of your pipeline.
You can always go ahead and make use of script
that is Azure CLI and PowerShell
to work with your resources.
So we're gonna do the same thing here itself.
Hence, let me go onto the deployment app pipeline,
let's just make use of the same pipeline we had early on.
Let me edit the pipeline.
So I have my artifact in place.
Yeah, let me change the stage.
So I'll say,
create
Traffic Manager
endpoint.
Lemme go onto the task,
let me remove both of these task.
Let me add a new task
for Azure app.
I'll choose, it has Azure App Service Deploy.
Click on add.
This will be to deploy the staging application.
Scroll down,
let me go onto my subscription.
In the app service name
I'll choose my staging app, this is fine.
Let me add another task now.
This is actually gonna be Azure PowerShell.
So we've seen PowerShell before,
we can use directly the Azure PowerShell modules.
I'll click on add.
This is gonna be used now
to create
the Traffic Manager endpoint.
Choose my subscription, I'll choose an inline script.
What is the script I'm gonna use?
So, here I have two scripts in place,
one is for creating the endpoint.
Again, for those who are not familiar with PowerShell
I don't expect you to understand this entire script.
If you want, I do have a complete course
when it comes on to working with Azure PowerShell.
But just as an example on how you can use scripts again,
as part of your pipeline to enhance its functionality.
I'm giving an example on how we can create an endpoint
via the use of Azure PowerShell modules.
Here I have four variables in place,
I need to change the values accordingly.
So if you are working along,
you have to make sure that you change the name
of the Traffic Manager profile.
I'll take the name of my profile, that's deployment profile,
place it here.
My resource group is fine.
What is my target resource ID?
This is the ID of my staging application.
For that I can go onto my deployment app staging,
go onto its properties.
I need to get what is the resource ID?
I'll copy this onto the clipboard.
Let me delete this
and then place the value here.
And what is
the name
of my staging app?
So that's this.
Let me copy this
and place it here.
So I'm creating a Traffic Manager endpoint
via the use of PowerShell,
that's gonna point onto my Azure Web App.
This is a command to create the new endpoint,
I'm giving a name of staging.
It's of the type Azure endpoint.
So, whatever we've been doing manually
we're doing it via PowerShell.
I give the profile name, what is the target resource ID?
It should be enabled.
What is the resource group?
And what is the weightage?
If you want you can give weightage of a hundred,
if you want a portion of your users
to be directed onto your staging version
of your application.
Just save this.
Then I need to add that custom header.
Remember, that we need to add that host value.
So it's basically host, what is my target endpoint?
I basically said that over here.
Any final command is to ensure
that all of these settings are applied
onto our Traffic Manager profile.
I'm gonna copy all of this.
I'm gonna place it in the inline script.
I'll scroll down,
I'll ensure to use the latest installed version
when it comes onto Azure PowerShell.
So whatever is installed on the agent
go ahead and use that.
That should be fine by us.
Lemme click on save.
So once you have all this in place
it'll deploy the endpoint,
it'll deploy the new version of our application,
and that can be our stage.
In the next stage
we can change the weightage of the endpoints.
I'll click on save.
You can have, I said a post-deployment condition approval,
where I have TOC user one.
I'll go ahead and just override that
so it can go onto the next stage.
In this, in my first agent job.
So, up to this point,
let's say that you have a hundred weightage
for the staging
and the portion of the users
who have tested the application,
saying, yes it's fine, no issues at all.
Now I can go ahead and change the weightage accordingly.
Hence, I'll remove this agent less job
that I have, not required.
I'll remove this as well.
I'll just have one task in place,
I'm gonna remove this task.
The one task I'm gonna have
is to change the weightage of the endpoints.
I'm again gonna use Azure PowerShell.
Click on add,
and this is to
change the weightage.
I'll choose my subscription, choose an inline script.
Now, what is the script I have for this?
This is something known as the set endpoint.
I'm gonna get what is the current endpoint I have
that is my production endpoint,
so I'm changing this.
The type is Azure endpoint.
I have my profile name,
so you can use variables to make this much more simpler
or you can just go ahead and add all the values here.
So let's go onto my profile,
so whichever is easier for you.
Placing it here.
If I go onto the resource group at this template GRP,
that's fine.
Here for the production endpoint
I'm changing the weightage to one.
Then I'm getting the staging endpoint,
I'm changing the weightage to 1000,
that's what we had done earlier on manually.
Just changing the profile name.
Right, everything is fine,
I'll just save this as well.
Copy this,
and let's place it here.
Then ensuring I use the latest installed version.
And lemme click on save.
So, now we have our pipeline in place.
I'll go onto my index page as part of my repository.
Let me click on edit.
I'm gonna change the version,
what is the current version that we have?
Okay, it's version four.
Let me just confirm.
So, currently as part of my web application
I have version three,
because still remember our production endpoint
was pointing onto version three of the application.
The only thing we did was to change the weightage,
that was done early on.
So with this in mind, right?
So I have version three.
Let me change this on to version four
as part of my code and do a commit.
They should trigger a build pipeline
and then it should trigger a release.
So lemme come back once it goes ahead
and triggers a release again of my deployment app pipeline.
So, I've come back, it has gone ahead
and complete the first stage.
If I go onto my staging app, let me just confirm
that I have version four of my application,
so that's fine.
My Traffic Manager profile
should still be showing version three.
If I go on to the profile, I can see my production endpoint,
and now I can see my staging endpoint also in place.
So, now let's assume testing is complete
and you are ready to switch over most of your users,
majority of the users now onto your staging endpoint.
And please know that you can always disable
the other endpoint once you want all
of your users to go onto this staging endpoint.
Hence, I'll go onto the pipeline,
let me override the approval
and approve it myself.
It'll go onto the next stage
wherein it'll change the weightage now of the endpoints.
Let's wait till this is complete.
And once the final stage is also complete,
if I just hit on refresh for my endpoint,
I can see my production endpoint
is now weightage of one
and this changing endpoint is a weightage of 1000.
If I go onto the Traffic Manager endpoint,
I can see I'm being directed onto version four.
So, in this chapter I wanna show you
how you can use Azure Traffic Manager within your pipeline.

--- Using a rolling deployment ---

(upbeat lively music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter
I just want to give a quick note
when it comes onto rolling deployments.
Actually this is a strategy
that we've already seen early on.
Let's say that we have an application
that is hosted on a set of Azure virtual machines.
And let's say we want to now update the version
of the application running on these Azure virtual machines.
We had seen the concept of deployment groups
early on in our pipelines
and at that point in time
the deployment group could apply the update
onto the machines one at a time
or you know batches at a time
not all at once.
So you are doing it in phases.
This could be done with deployment groups.
You can also have this rolling updates when it comes
onto Azure virtual machines.
Another version of the rolling updates is
let's say again you have machines
that are hosting an application
when you want to roll out a new version of your application.
So this is when it comes onto the virtual machine scale set.
New machines with the new application version
would be spun up and it would gradually replace the machines
which have the older version of your application.
When you are doing it in such a manner
you have to remember that at any point in time
during the upgrade process
you would have machines running
both the older and the newer application versions.
So in this chapter is wanna kind of give this
quick note when it comes onto rolling deployment.

--- Using a Load Balancer ---

(upbeat funky music)
Presenter: Hi and welcome back.
Now I want to go through how you can
use the Azure load balancer when it
comes on to managing your Blue-Green Deployments.
You probably would've seen articles
in which you can use a load balancing service to
direct traffic accordingly when it comes
onto your blue and green environments.
So I wanna give you an example
on how this can be achieved.
Again, for those who might be familiar
with the Azure Load Balancer,
just a quick revision when it comes
onto the purpose of the load balancing service.
So you could have your applications being hosted
on a set of Azure virtual machines.
If you want to load balance traffic from your users
across the virtual machines hosting the application
you can make use of an Azure Load Balancer.
You will add the machines to your backend pool.
These are the machines hosting your application.
We then configure aspects such
as a help probe on the load balancer.
The help probe will understand
if the backend virtual machines are healthy or not
and you can define load balancing rules
on how you would load balance traffic,
the incoming traffic from the users
across the Azure virtual machines.
You configure the Azure virtual machine
as part of a backend pool that sits
behind the Azure load balancer.
When it comes onto a Blue-Green Deployment
let's say you have an application just for the sake
of simplicity running on one Azure virtual machine.
This is your blue environment.
All views are directed
onto this current production environment.
Please note, you can have multiple machines in place.
You can configure your load balancer to ensure
that initially all traffic from the users
is directed onto this environment.
Then you can deploy your new application version
on another Azure virtual machine.
This is gonna be part of your green environment
and then when you're ready to make the switch
you can make your load balancer point onto the VM
or the VMs running as part of your green environment.
So in the next chapter, I'm gonna show you an example
on how you can actually perform this particular switch.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - VM Setup ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in this chapter, I wanna show you
how you can make the switch
when it comes on to your blue and green environments
using the Azure load balancing service.
For this, first, let me go ahead
and create the required infrastructure.
I'm gonna create two Azure virtual machines.
One machine is gonna be simulating the scenario
of our current production based application
and the other virtual machine can simulate the scenario
wherein we have a new version of our application.
In all resources,
let me create a new virtual machine.
I'll choose Windows Server 2019 Data Center.
I'll create a new resource group
for the purpose of this demo,
hit on okay,
give a name, appvmprod,
this will be our production based server,
choose the location,
don't need any availability.
(object clicking)
Just give a quick username and a password
that we can use to log into the machine.
I'm gonna allow traffic on Port 80
because we are gonna be installing
internet information services on this particular machine.
I'm leaving all of the other aspects as they are.
Go onto management, on advance, on tags,
on review and create.
Let me go ahead and hit on Create
and let's wait till we have the machine in place.
Once I have the machine in place,
I'm gonna log into the machine,
connect via rdp.
I'll download the rdp file.
(object clicking)
We'll connect onto the machine.
While the interface is loading,
in another tab, let me create our second Azure VM,
again, Windows Server 2019 Data Center.
Choose my resource group.
I'll name this as appvmstaging,
again, North Europe, no infrastructure.
(object clicking)
Give the details to log in.
Again, allow traffic on port 80,
go onto next for the desk on networking,
it'd be part of the same virtual network as our first VM.
Management, advance, tags, review and create.
Let me go ahead and hit on create.
Let me go onto the first VM that is appvmprod.
Again, I'll just install the role
of internet information services on this machine
and have a simple default.html page in place.
In these server match dashboard, let me go ahead
and click on add roles and features.
Let me go on next,
choose the role of the web server,
add features, repeat and hit on install.
I'll just go back,
I can see that I have my other VM also in place,
go onto the resource.
Let me connect to this machine.
(object clicking)
Just waiting for the second machine to load up
so we can perform the same steps
of installing internet information services on this machine.
I'll click on add roll and features,
go onto next, again, the same steps.
Install the web server role, click on add features,
let me go ahead and hit on install.
I'll go onto the first machine.
I can see that the installation is complete,
I'll just open up Notepad.
(object clicking)
You'll see application version one.
(object clicking)
I'll save this in C Drive, inetpub,
(indistinct) route,
call this as default.html,
this is done.
What I'll do is let me copy this,
go onto the second machine.
Here, also, I'll open up Notepad.
(object clicking)
Say this is application version two,
just waiting for the installation to complete.
Once installation is complete,
I'll save this also as default.html
onto the C Drive, inetpub, (indistinct)
onto all files.
(object clicking)
Default.html.
Right, so we have our machines in place,
I'm gonna close remote desktop on both machines.
Just to confirm, I'll go onto RPM staging onto the overview,
take the public IP address, go onto new tab
and do a default.html,
so I can see application version two.
If I go onto appvmprod, onto the overview,
take the public IP address to a default.html,
I can see application version one.
I'll close all of this.
Now I'm gonna deploy a Azure load balancer
and put these machines behind the load balancer.
For this, we don't need to have the public IP addresses
assigned onto the virtual machines.
I'm gonna disassociate the public IP addresses.
When it comes onto the Azure load balancer,
it only uses a private IP address
when it comes onto communication with the Azure VMs.
Again, the only reason I spun up a public IP address
is to ensure that we can log in,
install internet information services,
and create that default.html page.
For each machine, I'll go onto networking.
Let me go onto the network interface,
onto IP configurations,
onto the IP config,
let me disassociate the public IP address
from the IP config.
I'll do the same thing for RPM staging,
go onto networking,
onto the network interface, onto IP configurations,
onto the IP config, disassociate and click on save.
So now let's mark an end onto this chapter
and go onto the next chapter
when it comes onto the implementation
of the Azure load balancer.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Configuration ---

(upbeat intro music)
Instructor: So, in the prior chapter,
we had gone ahead and deployed our Azure VMs.
These VMs are now gonna be sitting
behind our Azure Load Balancer.
And we simulating a situation,
wherein we have one Azure Virtual Machine
that is hosting version one of our application,
and the other machine is hosting version two
of our application.
Let me now deploy an Azure Load Balancer.
I'll create a new resource.
I'll search for the Load Balancer Service.
I'll just hit on enter.
This will take me onto the marketplace.
I'm gonna choose the Load Balancer Service, from Microsoft.
Hit on create.
Choose my Resource Group.
Just give a name, in the North Europe location.
This will be of the standards queue.
I'm gonna mark this as a Public Load Balancer.
Go onto next, for IP Configuration.
I'll add a front-end IP Configuration.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Scroll down. Create a new public IP address.
That's gonna be assigned onto the Load Balancer.
Let me hit on, Okay.
Click on Add.
Again, I'm not going through these specifics
of the working of the Load Balancer.
From the AZ-400 perspective,
it's good to understand how you can use the Load Balancer,
when it comes onto a deployment strategy.
I leave all the aspects empty.
We'll define, or configure this,
after the creation of the Load Balancer.
So I'll just go ahead and hit on Create.
Let's wait till we have the Load Balancer in place.
Once I have the Load Balancer in place,
I'll go onto the resource.
First thing I'll configure, is the backend pools,
to add both of my machines as backend pools.
I'm gonna click on Add.
I'm gonna name the first one as production pool.
I'll select my virtual network.
I'll choose IP address.
And let me choose 10.0.0.4
This is, or should be, the private IP address.
If I go onto my virtual machines.
Onto app PM Prod.
If I scroll down,
they should be the private IP address of app PM Prod.
So this is gonna be part of our production pool.
I'll click on save.
I'm gonna add now, another backend pool.
This is gonna behave like our staging pool,
which is gonna have the newer version
of our application being posted
on the other Azure Virtual Machine.
So I have this in place.
I'll click on Add.
I'll give a name of, staging pool.
Again, IP address.
I'll choose, this time, 10.0.0.5.
This for app PM staging.
Click on save.
So we are adding two backend pools onto our Load Balancer.
Once I have the pools in place,
I'll go onto the Health Probes.
We'll define a simple Health Probe.
This is just to check if the backend machines
are healthy or not.
I'll leave it as the TCP protocol on port 80,
because we have Internet Information Services listening
for traffic on port 80.
So this should be fine.
I'll click on Add.
And then finally, I'll go onto the Load Balancing Rules.
Let me add a very simple rule.
So here, I'm telling that, as part of this rule,
traffic that is coming onto the front-end IP address
of our Load Balancer, must be directed
onto my production pool initially,
because this hosting the production version
of my application.
When traffic is coming on port 80, that's TCP protocol,
then divert the traffic on port 80 of the backend pool,
because we have our virtual machines,
which has Internet Information Services in place,
that is listening on the backend port of port 80.
And we can use our Health Probe.
Leave all the other settings as they are.
And let me click on Add.
Once we have this in place,
if you go onto the front-end IP configuration,
take the public IP address,
that is assigned onto the Load Balancer
and go onto default.html.
You'll be directed onto application version one.
And just to extend now this example,
to give you kind of a vision on
how we can now do an example of a blue-green deployment.
If I go onto my domain,
which I'd used earlier on, for cloudhublearning.com,
I'd added some records here.
I'm gonna delete these records.
Even the TXT record.
I'm gonna add another record.
This time the record is gonna be an A record.
This is for the route.
I'm gonna point it.
So I just put Add Rate.
And, I'm gonna point it onto the IP address
of the Load Balancer.
So I'll copy this.
Place the value here.
Let me add the record.
Once it's done, I'll just wait for a couple of minutes
for this to take effect.
So after waiting for a couple of minutes, in another tab,
if I go onto the URL, cloudhublearning.com/default.html,
I'll directed onto my Load Balancer.
And my Load Balancer is directing me
onto application version one.
So now, let's say, that situation
wherein you have the new version of your application
hosted on the other Azure VM, our app PM staging.
We have already added that onto the backend pool.
The only difference is that we are not making use of it
because this is hosting, I said, let's say,
the next version of your application.
To make now, that simple change,
you can go onto the Load Balancing Rules.
Go onto the rule itself.
In the backend pool, uncheck production pool,
choose staging, and then click on save.
So now, it is telling Load Balancer,
if requests are now coming in,
go ahead and direct it onto the staging pool.
And the staging pool has the VM, app VM staging.
And once this is complete,
if I refresh the page for my site,
you can see we are being directed
onto application version two.
This is how you can do a quick switch,
when it comes onto your blue-green environments,
with the use of the Azure Load Balancer.

--- Using the Load Balancer in a pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the last chapter, I showed you an example
on how you can do the switch between your environments
basically using the Azure load balancer.
In this chapter, quickly wanna show you a task
that you can have within your pipeline
to make that switch.
Here, we are going to be using, or making use of
Azure PowerShell to actually make that switch
when it comes onto your backend pools
because there is no direct task
that can go ahead and do this.
So you can make use of Azure PowerShell
as a task to make that switch
when it comes onto your load balancer.
I'll go back onto my rule in the load balancer.
Let me switch it back onto the production pool
and click on save.
Once, is it done? Let's confirm.
Go on the folder HTML, we're going onto application,
back to application version one.
I'm making this very simple.
I'm gonna go onto my pipelines
and I'll create a new release pipeline.
Empty job.
I'll say swap pools.
(keyboard tapping)
Just give a name.
(keyboard tapping)
I'm not gonna add any artifact.
I just wanna show you
how you can actually perform that swap.
If I go on to my job, I'm just gonna add one task.
This is gonna be for Azure PowerShell.
I'll add the task
and this task is going to change the backend pool.
What is the script that I have here for this?
This is again, in partial.
The first line is to basically get a handle
onto the existing load balancer.
Why it's load balancer name and the resource group.
Hence, we need to change this accordingly.
My resource group is fine, it's load GRP
is a name of my balancer, our balancer,
so if you are following along
make sure you make the changes accordingly.
This is fine.
What is the name of the backend pool I want to switch to?
If I go onto my backend pools,
the pool I've given is staging pool
so I need to change it accordingly.
(keyboard tapping)
There's some variables I'm using within the script.
I have my probe, which is probe E, that name is fine.
My third statement is to get a handle
onto the backend address pool.
So I'm getting a handle onto the staging pool.
Then finally, I am using set easy load bouncer rule config
to set the rule accordingly.
My rule is rule A, right?
Let me confirm, yeah, it's rule A.
Then, front end IP configuration, that's fine.
I'm getting what is the post front end IP configuration
protocol is TCP, the front end port is port 80.
The backend port is port 80
and the only thing I'm cheating here is the backend address.
Earlier it was, or currently it is pointing
onto the production pool.
This script is just gonna change it
onto the staging pool, as simple as that.
I'll copy all of this,
let me go onto my release, choose my subscription,
choose an inline script, replace it here.
Scroll down, use the latest install version
of Azure PowerSell.
I'll click on save and let me quickly create a release.
So, you can basically have the script
within your entire pipeline based on your needs.
Now, obviously,
when it comes on to these PowerShell scripts
that I'm showing you, you may not get it in the exam
where you have to understand, you know,
what are the details of these scripts.
Here the entire purpose is to show you
how you can make use of these scripts
within your pipelines to make them more dynamic in nature.
Once this is complete, you can verify,
go onto your balancer, click on refresh.
You can see it is pointing onto the staging pool.
You can confirm from here as well.
It is now pointing onto application version two.
So in the set of chapters, wanna show you
how we can use the Azure load balancer
when it comes onto your deployment process.
Now, once you're done with this lab,
I'm gonna go on to my resource group
that has my resources for the load balancer, delete it,
so I don't bear additional costs.
Right, so this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Package Management ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, we are going to go into
understanding about
the tool which is available as part of Azure DevOps
and that's Azure Artifacts.
Azure Artifacts allows developers to go ahead
and publish their code as packages
so that they can be used by, basically, other developers
within their organization.
See, when you're talking about packages,
here it is giving an example of
an application that we have,
or a project that we have, in Visual Studio 2022.
Now, let's say I want to use functionality
when it comes onto working with JSON based data.
Now, instead of
the developer
creating this code by themselves,
they should look online
if code already exists
that can help them work with JSON.
So, in fact, there is a package available
if I go onto Tools, NuGet Package Manager,
Manage NuGet Packages for the Solution.
If I go onto Browse and search for JSON,
there is a package known as Newtonsoft.Json.
When you install this package as part of your project,
it then allows you to
use the code functionality
that is available in this package.
So, if you want to serialize JSON data,
de-serialize JSON data,
instead of the developer writing the code from scratch,
they can make use of an existing package
that already has that functionality in place.
They can then focus on their main business logic code
instead of worrying about this utility
that's already available as a package.
When it comes onto .net,
so you have NuGet.org which has all of these packages.
Visual Studio is going onto
NuGet to fetch all of the packages.
Similarly, for other programming languages,
you have other package solutions in place.
Now, when it comes onto NuGet,
these packages are available on the internet.
Any developer from Visual Studio,
or if they just have NuGet in place,
they can go ahead and fetch the package.
But let's say that an organization
wants more control
when it comes onto their packages,
or maybe they want to have a private repository
for the packages their developers create.
So, maybe you might be having a central team
that is creating code packages that can be used
by other applications that are developed
by other development teams within the organization itself.
Instead of making those code packages available
on an internet based site,
they only want to be in a repository
within the organization itself.
For this purpose, one thing that you can do
is to make use of Azure Artifacts.
So, it's like having your own
package management solution,
but it's instead onto Azure DevOps
and you can use it accordingly.
So, I said when it comes onto Azure Artifacts,
developers can go ahead and
publish their packages onto Azure Artifacts.
So, whether you need NuGet packages,
which is for .net,
or npm packages for JavaScript,
or Maven packages for Java, or Python based packages,
you can make use of Azure Artifacts.
Your developers can publish their packages.
Developers can also consume their packages,
and developers can additionally also
consume their packages from public feeds as well.
So, in this chapter, I just want to give
kind of an introduction when it comes
onto the Azure Artifact service.

--- Lab - Creating and publishing a package ---

(Upbeat music)
Narrator: Now just to show a used case
on how we can use Azure artifacts,
we first need to build a package which we can publish
onto Azure Artifacts itself.
I'm gonna show you a very simple example.
In Visual Studio, I'm gonna create a new project.
Yeah, just search for a class library.
I'm gonna use class library in C Sharp.
Go onto next.
I'll name this as 'co-services'.
So let's say you have one development team that is
building all of the co-services that can be reused
across the organization in other applications.
Go onto next, hit on 'create'.
I'll go onto the class that gets created.
Just rename this, call this 'co-functionality'.
I'll say yes, I want to rename the class.
Create a very simple method,
(computer keyboard tapping)
and I'm gonna return saying,
this class score
functionality.
So nothing that great, just having a simple class in place
which has a method of display.
I'll click on save.
I'll just go onto the 'co-services'.
So the target framework is .net 6.0.
So now we kind of have a very simple project in place.
Now we want to publish this
as a package onto Azure Artifacts.
Let's go onto Azure Artifacts.
So we've seen bolds, repos, pipelines.
Let's go on artifacts now.
The first thing we have to do is to
create something known as a feed.
The feed is where you'll actually publish your packages
and then you can have other developers that can
actually connect to the feed and consume those packages.
I'll create a feed.
(computer keyboard tapping)
I'll just name this as 'co-services'.
Yeah, in terms of the visibility
we are seeing members of our tech support organization.
You can also include packages from public sources.
I'll explain this later on.
And this is basically for our project.
I'll hit on 'create'.
We now have our feed in place.
If you want to connect to the feed in any matter,
you can click on connect to the feed, depending
upon what language you are using to either connect
to the feed to publish a package or consumer package,
you can choose it accordingly.
For example, if I choose Visual Studio,
it's telling you how you can set up your machine
when it comes on to specifying
this particular feed has the source.
It's saying first you specify this has the source
which is your feed URL,
and then you go ahead and restore the packages.
If I go onto Nuget.exc,
it's saying that you add this config file onto your project,
in the same folder as the project file itself.
Then you have to go ahead and restore
or publish the packages onto this particular feed.
In order to connect onto this feed,
since this particular feed is part of our project,
that means you need to authenticate yourself
in order to download a package from this feed.
It's not the same as Nuget.org
which is kind of a public repository, wherein
anyone can go out and download a package.
I told you one of the main purposes
of having Azure Artifacts in place is to ensure
that you have your own sort of private package repository,
that can be used within your organization.
Hence, you can have this sort of privacy,
wherein users have to authenticate
in order to consume a package from this feed.
Again, you'll understand this when we publish a package
and consume the package.
If you click on 'get the tools',
it's telling you there are two things you need to do.
First thing is to download the latest version of NuGet.
This is if you want to,
I said probably publish a package or even consume a package.
And if you don't have Visual Studio
in place and you want to ensure
that you don't authenticate yourself every time,
you can download the credential provider.
The credential provider will authenticate you the first time
onto the feed so that you don't have to enter
your credentials every time.
So I told you that you have to authenticate yourself
onto the speed in order to publish or consume a package.
So now our first step is to go ahead
and publish our package.
So let me download the latest NuGet from here.
It'll take me on to downloading NuGet.
Choose the command line on Windows,
since I'm a Windows machine.
I'll download the recommended latest version.
Choose 'Keep'.
I'm gonna copy this.
So currently, currently if I look at my 'co-services'
it is in a temporary directory.
So I'm gonna copy that NuGet.exc,
I'll go onto the co-services folder
wherever I have my project
I'm gonna place that Nuget here.
Next, let me go back here.
I'm gonna copy all of this,
and create a file known as NuGet.config.
So in my project, I'll right click, add a new item.
Yeah, just choose a text file
and let me name this as NuGet.config,
go onto it
and let me paste in whatever was given over there.
Let me go ahead and save this.
Let me build a solution.
Also let me go onto the 'co-services' folder.
I'll right click on NuGet.exc.
So even though you can't see
just go onto the properties of this particular file.
Click on 'unblock', hit on 'apply', and hit on 'okay'.
Now we can use the NuGet tool to first
create a package of our 'co-services' project.
I'm gonna open up Windows Portal as an administrator.
(Computer keys tapping)
I'll go onto the temporary directory onto 'co-services'.
(Computer keys tapping)
Let me go onto 'co-services' again.
I have my NuGet.exc,
so I'll run the Nuget.exc with the pack command
and it is co-services.ch.
So it is going ahead and create a package
which we can now publish onto our feed.
If you want to publish it onto your feed,
so there is a command given here.
We can copy this, paste it here.
So we have the source of 'co-services',
this is our feed.
When it comes onto the API key, you can mention anything.
So let me again mention it has a string of co.
What is the package path?
So the package has been created here.
It's 'co-services.1.0'.
(computer keys tapping)
So basically this particular name.
So I just need to ensure
that I have the command rightly executed.
Now it's gonna ask me to sign into my
Azure Devops account.
So I'll sign in as the admin.
(Computer keys tapping)
So now I'm signed in saying the package was pushed.
If I go back and let's refresh our page where
it comes onto 'co-services' and we can see our package
in place along with the version number.
So this chapter, we have seen how we could publish a package
onto a feed in Azure Artifacts.

--- Lab - Consuming the package ---

(upbeat music)
Narrator: Now in the prior chapter, I had shown you how
you can actually promote a package
as an example on a feed in as Azure artifacts.
In this chapter, I wanna show you how we can now
consume this package.
For this, in Visual Studio,
I'm gonna create, now, a new project.
This is gonna be an esp.net co web application.
I'll go onto next, give a name of "Consume Package",
go on to Next, hit on Create.
Yeah. Now if you want to consume the package,
here, if I go onto new get package manager
and manage new get packages for the solution.
Currently my package source is newget.org.
If I go onto the settings, I can now add my feed
in my settings when connecting onto Azure Artifacts.
If I click on Connective Feed, if I choose Visual Studio
this is a source or I can copy this onto the clipboard
in Visual Studio.
Let me add another source, packet source.
I'll give the source details or copy the name,
place it here and click on update.
And hit on "Okay".
In my packet source, now I have
newget.org and I have code services.
Now, when going on to code services,
it is asking me to connect
(typing sounds)
onto a Azure Devops.
I told you that this is an authenticate request.
Since I'm using Visual Studio, everything is managed here
but if you don't have Visual Studio,
remember you can always go ahead
and download that credential provider.
Now, when I search for code services
in terms of my package source.
Here, I can see code services.
Let me go ahead and choose it and install it for my project.
Again, just asking me to authenticate.
(typing sounds)
So it's asking me to install.
I'll click on "Okay"
This is now done.
Now let me go onto the index page.
I, now, want to make use of that package.
I'll go onto the C shop page
just create a quick property here of message.
Then in the on get method, I'm going to use
now my co functionality class
that is part of the package which we just included.
(typing sounds)
I'll show to include the name space.
I'll just go over this using code services.
So since we have now included the package
of code services within this particular project
I can now use the co functionality that's available
in that particular package.
And we had one method, right?
The method was dot display.
So dot display.
And I'll just assign this
onto the message
that I have defined here.
I'll go onto my index page and instead of welcome
I'll do model dot the message.
If I go ahead and run this locally on my machine,
you can see I'm getting the output accordingly.
So now has a developer, I need to authenticate
onto that feed to make use of that package.
So in this chapter,
I wanna show you how you can consume a package that is part
of the feed in a Azure artifacts.

--- Azure Artifacts - Other aspects ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
just wanna go through some other aspects
when it comes on to Azure Artifacts.
So, you can define feeds in Azure Artifacts.
This is just a mechanism that allows you to store,
manage, and group packages together.
Normally the feeds that you have are project-based,
given our case, it was based on a project.
Only people within the project
can actually access the feed.
You can also create a public feed as well.
This allows you, just like you get out
or, to share packages with anyone on the internet.
If you want to create a public feed,
this can only be created within public projects
in Azure DevOps.
And remember in our case,
we have been creating private projects.
They can have something known as upstream sources.
I'll go through upstream sources in the next chapter.
And public users cannot download universal packages.
When it comes on to upstream sources.
So, you can store packages from different sources
onto your feed.
Here, the copy of the package from the upstream source
will be stored in the feed.
We also have something known as feed views.
This helps you to share certain packages.
The default views that are available are @local
@prerelease, and @release.
By default, all packages are released onto the local view.
So there're some other aspects
when it comes on to Azure Artifacts.
In the next chapter,
I just wanna go through upstream sources.

--- Azure Artifacts - Upstream sources ---

(Funk music)
[Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter I just want to go through
upstream sources that you can have
as part of your feed.
So, we have our feed that we created
and this kind of a private feed
so that we can connect onto the feed
from within the organization
and then download the packages accordingly.
But sometimes, we might still want packages
from sources such as nuget.org.
We can actually connect our feed
onto the public feeds that are available.
By default, when we created our feed
there was a setting to include packages
from common public sources.
If you go onto your feed and go onto the feed settings,
you have upstream sources.
So, by default, if you ask for packages from nuget.org,
it should be able to download it accordingly.
These are all of the famous sources
when it comes onto the different programming languages
when it comes onto packages.
Just to see this in action,
in my project here,
this is my esp.net project
in which we made use of that co-services package.
Let me go on tools,
nuget package manager,
and manage nuget packages for the solution.
Here, let me go onto the settings.
Let me disable nuget.org so by default visuals
you can only go onto the co-services feed.
Let me hit on okay.
Now, once I have this in place
let me
install the package of newtonsoft.jason.
So I'll just copy this.
In visual studio, I'll go on tools
onto the package magic console.
I'll just space the command.
Hit on enter.
It is asking me to authenticate.
Once this is done,
it's saying it successfully installed newton soft
at the same time,
if I go onto my feed
and refresh this page
you will see that newtonsoft.jason has also been added here.
So, in addition to being able to connect
onto an upstream source,
it is gonna, it will also ensure
that the package is downloaded onto the feed
so that it can be taken from the feed the next time on.
So, in this chapter
I just kind of want to go through upstream sources
which is available as your artifacts.

--- Lab - Azure Pipelines - Package Publish ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter I wanna show you how
you can take your project and publish it onto a feed.
via the use of Azure pipelines.
It's actually quite simple.
We already know the pipeline for building a project.
The only thing that we need is to ensure
that we can publish the project
or basically publish the build, has a package onto our feed.
I'm gonna be using the core services project
that we had seen earlier on.
I'm gonna delete the nuget package file here.
So let me just hit on delete
because we are gonna create this sort
of nuget package from within the pipeline itself.
I'm gonna go onto the core services.
I'm gonna right click, I'm gonna go right down.
I know you can't see the menu
but go onto the properties of the project.
Go onto package and general.
I'm gonna change the package version.
I'll make it 1.1.0.
So let's say we are making a change onto our project.
So I'll just go onto general.
It has changed.
I'll go onto core functionality.
I'll just say this is version 1.1.0
Go ahead and click on save.
Let me publish this onto a gate repository in a Azure repos.
Go onto Azure DevOps.
I'll choose my Agile project.
I'll do a create and a push.
Actually, we don't even need the nuget.exe.
If you want you can go ahead
and actually remove it. At the moment we have.
this has part of now Azure repos.
Let me go onto Azure repos.
Let's go onto the core services
and let me set up a build,
isp.netco.
Now I've added the code in the build.
I've replaced it to ensure
that it does the job of building the code
creating a package and publishing it onto our feed.
Here I have the Windows latest.
In terms of the VM image, I have the nuget command
for restoring the entire solution.
I'm building my project.
If I scroll down now, I'm using the nuget command and pack.
We had seen this right nuget and then Pack.
This will help us to build our nuget package.
Now in terms of the versioning scheme
I'm saying that we can also version based
on the build ID is something that we can also do.
So in addition to specifying the version in the project
we can also version it via the use of the build ID
in the destination for the package we are seeing put
in the artifact staging directory.
Then we are just using the command
of nuget Authenticate to authenticate onto the feeds.
And then finally, we are doing a nuget push to go ahead
and push the package onto our feed.
I need to make the changer in terms of the feed.
So let me go onto artifacts.
So here if I connect onto the Feed and Choose Visual Studio
the name of the feed is core Services.
Just go onto the pipeline.
That's the name of the feed
and the name of my project is Agile Project.
With all of this in place, let me go ahead and do a save
and a run, and let's wait till the build is complete.
Now in the build, I can see I've got error in terms
of packages that failed to publish if I go onto the job.
The job is when pushing the package onto the feed.
And basically this error is because it's saying it
lacks permission to complete this action.
For this, what we have to do is we have to go onto our feed,
go onto the feed settings, onto permissions,
add users and groups.
Here, I'll search for project collection, build service
choose a contributed role, click on save
Add users and groups again,
go onto the Agile project build service
click contributor role, click on save. This is required.
I'll go onto the pipeline again.
Let's run it again.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once a job is complete
if I go onto my feed and let me refresh this entire page
I now have a new version of my core services here.
The version number is basically the build ID.
So there are two ways we could go about doing this.
I had made the change in Visual Studio.
This was in terms of the project.
This was one way in which you can actually
go about doing this.
So we had gone onto package and changed the package version
or you could set what should be the package
version within your pipeline itself.
I was making it dynamic in nature, and you can
go ahead and now consume this particular package.
And again, remember about that error
we had to give specific permissions onto our
build pipeline to ensure that it could publish
the package onto the feed in Azure artifacts.

--- Pipeline reports ---

-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just quickly want to go through pipeline reports.
So anyway, we know that when we go on to the pipeline,
so let me go onto any pipeline that I have.
If you go onto the analytics,
here you can see the pipeline pass rate,
you can see the pipeline duration.
If you go on to viewing the full report,
if you scroll down, for each of the steps,
you'll actually get the amount of time each step took
when it came onto your pipeline.
This is quite useful.
So if there's any step that is taking a long time
across the pipeline, you can try to optimize
that particular step within your pipeline itself.
Apart from that, if you go onto your dashboard,
you have widgets when it comes onto your pipelines.
If I click on Edit, we have pipelines,
we have widgets for the built history of a pipeline,
the deployment status et cetera.
If I choose one and click on Add, I can scroll down.
I will need to configure it, configure the widget.
The title is, the deployment status.
You can choose the size in terms of the number of tiles
it's going to use.
I scroll down, I can choose the build pipeline.
So let me just choose a pipeline that I have.
The default branch in the build pipeline, and click on Save.
I need, choose a stage.
Click on Save, click on Done editing.
And you'll see basically the status of the deployment
when it comes onto the pipeline itself.
So there are multiple widgets
when it comes onto your dashboard.
So I just quickly want to go through the pipeline reports
that is available.

--- Note - Flaky tests ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just want to give a quick note
when it comes on to flaky tests.
See, flaky test means that those tests,
which often pass,
but at some points in time,
they could fail,
even though there was no major change done
in the source code
or the execution environment
that actually would cause
that particular pipeline to fail.
So sometimes the pipeline fails,
even though at that point in time it would idly pass.
This is also known as a flaky test.
See, sometimes maybe when you're doing a build,
maybe the pipeline depends upon an external service,
a connection onto an external service.
And let's say, that external service is down.
So, even though there was not much change done
onto your source code,
but at that point in time,
because the external service was not available,
that's why the pipeline failed.
So, this doesn't give you an accurate picture
when it comes onto your pipeline runs.
There is an option available in Azure DevOps
that allows you to automatically detect
such sort of failures as flaky tests.
If you go onto your project settings,
and under test management
you have the flaky test detection,
which is marked as on.
You are using system detection.
Yeah, Azure pipelines can detect for flaky tests.
If you scroll down, it is enabled for all pipelines.
If you scroll further down,
you can also include the flaky test
in your test pass percentage.
So, I just wanna kind of give this quick note
when it comes onto this feature,
when it comes onto test management
for your Azure DevOps projects.

--- Azure App Config ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter
I just wanna give an overview when it comes
on to the Azure App config service.
If you're coming from an AZ-204 background
you'll be very familiar when it comes author service.
If you have configuration settings that need to be shared
across multiple Azure web apps,
Azure defines the configuration settings separately
in each Azure web application.
You can define in Azure App config
and they can be used by the Azure web apps.
Also in the Azure App config service
you can define feature flags that you can enable
and disable at any point in time.
So if you want certain features to be rolled out to users
you can go ahead and make use
of feature flags to enable or disable the feature.
Again, you have to go ahead
and code the use of using feature flags.
So if you go onto an Azure web app, for example.
If you go onto configuration.
In configuration,
you can go ahead and define name value pairs
in terms of application settings
and you can also define connection strengths.
But I told you if you have common settings
that need to be set across multiple Azure web apps,
you can make use of the Azure App config service.
Just has a quick see when it comes onto the service itself.
In all resources.
I'll hit on create.
When creating the resource,
let me search for app configuration.
I'll hit on create.
I'll choose an existing resource group that I have.
Just give a unique name for the resource.
I'll leave the pricing as it is in terms of the days to
retain the store. Just give us one day,
go networking on tags onto view and create.
And let me go ahead and hit on create.
Let's come back once we have the resource in place.
Once you have the resource in place,
if I go ahead onto the resource.
Here, you can actually go onto the Configuration Explorer.
You can create now key value pairs that can be used
by your Azure web apps.
At the same time, you can go on to Feature Manager,
you can create features,
you can enable as a feature flag at any point in time.
For the purpose of the AZ-400 exam
just understand the nature when it comes
onto the Azure App Service.
Here you can define key value pairs.
This is your configuration data that can be used
across your Azure web apps.
And also the definition of feature flags.
I'm not going in too much detail when it comes
onto the implementation
because this is mainly from a coding perspective.
Just to give you an overview when it comes
onto the AZ-400 exam
want to explain about the Azure app can fix service.

--- Lab - Using Selenium ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I want to go through
the usage of a tool that's known as Selenium.
You can actually use Selenium when it comes
onto your user interface testing for your web applications.
For example, let's say you have a web application deployed.
I have an Azure web app in place.
If I just take the URL,
go onto another tab, so I have an application in place,
deployment application version three.
You can use the Selenium framework to actually test out
the different parts of your application.
For example, if you wanna ensure that the keyword
of version three is coming up in your front page
for your application, this part of user interface testing,
you can make use of these Selenium framework.
You can actually write code,
this could be in the language of your choice.
You could make use of the packages
that are available when it comes onto Selenium,
for this sort of testing.
I'm gonna go through a very simple scenario,
an example on how we can implement this.
Now, in order to showcase the usage of Selenium,
I'm gonna create a very simple test project
that's gonna make use of these Selenium drivers.
When creating a new project in Visual Studio,
I'm gonna search for the template of MS test.
I'm gonna choose the MS test project in C#.
Go onto next, name this as Selenium test.
Let me create the project.
This is gonna add a unit test.
I'll just rename this.
I'll go on Tools new, get package manager.
Manage new, get packages for the solution.
Go on to browse, search for Selenium.
I'm gonna do Selenium.webdriver
and install this for my project.
I also wanna install Selenium.webdriver.chrome.
I'll scroll down, install this as well.
Once it's complete, I can go onto my test here.
In the test method, I'll just change the name
to test URL.
Since I want to test my site out in Chrome,
I'm gonna use the inbuilt Chrome driver
that will be available.
So let's name this as test driver.
I'll just go over this and use the name space.
I'll define this as well.
Now obviously it comes on the exam,
you're not required to know about coding
in terms of Selenium but this will showcase an example
on how this works, wanna create a simple method.
Yeah, also just ensure to use the right name space.
Then I can go on to the test driver, do a dot,
navigate, dot and go to a URL.
Yeah, I can mention my URL.
So let's say I want to go onto
my deployment application here.
I'm going onto the URL and I'm gonna check.
So I'll use the assert statement to check.
And again use my test driver dot the title
and check for the keyword of deployment app.
So choose the dot contains.
If you wanna double check your title,
if you go onto your page here, right click
and view the page source.
You will see the title, homepage deployment app.
So I'm gonna check for the title of the page
whether it is set accordingly.
Now from within Visual Studio,
once we have this in place, I can go onto my test
and run all of the tests, let's see what happens.
So it's built my project, it's running the test.
It'll now open up the browser automatically,
go onto my application.
If I just minimize this, you'll see the test has passed
because the title does contain deployment app.
If you wanna ensure that the browser closes after
the test is run, you take your test driver
and choose the method of quit.
This will then close the browser after the test is complete.
So a very simple Selenium-based test.
And then we can run this as part of our pipeline.
For this, I'll create a new get repository
in a Azure repost.
So I'll choose a Azure DevOps.
The repository name will be Selenium test.
I'll do or create and a push, save everything.
And then we'll create a simple build.
The build pipeline is gonna be very simple.
We just need to ensure that we run tests
as part of the pipeline.
We've seen it early on when it came onto unit testing.
So this is now published.
Let me go onto my repositories.
I can see Selenium test, let me go onto it.
Let me set up a build, choose asp.net.
When it comes onto the pipeline,
let me replace it with the code you've seen earlier on.
Again, everything's the same.
We are building our project
and then building command of test.
We just need to change the name of,
What is the name of our project that we had given?
It was Selenium test.
Selenium test.
Let me do a save and a run
and let's wait 'til the build is complete.
Now once a job is complete,
if I go onto the .NET, see when it comes onto the test
phase here you will see it is using the Chrome driver.
So one of the test files match the specified pattern.
It would've started the Chrome driver
and execute the test by go back onto the run.
We have the test here.
If I filter on what has passed,
the test URL test has indeed passed.
So if you want to have UI testing as part of your pipeline,
you can actually make use of Selenium and embed that code
within the pipeline itself.

--- Azure Test Plans ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, we're gonna look at how we can use Test Plans
when it comes onto Azure DevOps.
So, what are Azure Test Plans?
Here, you can carry out planned manual testing,
user acceptance testings, and even capture test results.
You can get also stakeholder feedback
to something that's available
with the help of the feedback extension.
You can also integrate the use
of having automated tests within your pipeline,
and you can get end-to-end traceability.
When you devisee your test cases,
they can be linked onto user story features
to provide end-to-end traceability.
Now, when it comes on to the different access levels,
remember, for your users,
you have different access levels in place.
If you have the Basic and the Test Plans,
then the user can go ahead and create Test Plans,
they can manage the Test Plants,
they can also create the test cases.
When it comes onto just the stakeholder access,
which is free in nature.
Here you can only perform exploratory testing
with the help of the test and feedback extension.
When you run the test, you have a couple of options.
One is the test runner.
Here, you can run the test
for your web and desktop applications.
You can also mark tests as passed or failed,
and the test outcomes can gather results
such as screen recordings and screen captures.
You can also use a test and feedback extension.
This is a browser-based extension
that works with web applications,
and you can also get stakeholder feedback
with the help of the extension.
The test outcomes can also gather results
such as screen recordings and screen captures.
When you're working with a Azure Test Plan,
so you have Test Plans that can be created.
This is actually used to group test suites and test cases.
You have the test suite itself.
This can be used to group test cases
into separate testing scenarios.
And you have the test cases,
this is used to find the actual steps required
to test the application.
And you also have shared steps.
You can have shared steps
that need to be shared across test cases.
Now, in the next chapter,
I'll show you how you can subscribe onto a free trial
when it comes onto Azure testing, Azure Test Plans.
And then, we'll go ahead and see
how do we do some of the aspects
that are available within this particular tool.

--- Subscribe to Test Plans Trial ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I just want to go through
how you can apply for a free trial
when it comes onto the test plans.
If I go on test plans within my project,
I basically get this screen,
wherein it's welcoming me onto the test hub
but there's nothing that I can actually do over here.
We have to actually subscribe
onto a free trial when it comes on test plans.
As part of the free tier,
we don't get access on test plans.
If I go onto my organization,
if I go onto organization settings,
if I go onto the billing section,
and if I scroll down,
we have the boards, repos, and test plans
we get five basic users, remember that.
But we don't get test plans.
If you want, you can start a free trial
when it comes on test plan.
So let me go ahead and click on this option.
So during this trial,
you'll have full access on test plans.
After the trial has expired,
in order to continue using test plans,
you have to buy the product.
But for us, the trial should be more than enough.
I'll click on start free trial.
So, once you subscribe onto the free trial for test plans.
Now, let me go onto my users.
This is within the organization settings.
For my tech support user,
currently, it has the basic access level.
I'm gonna click on the context menu
and change the access level.
From a basic access level,
I'll choose basic and test plans,
and click on save.
Once this is done,
I'll go on to my project again.
Let me go on test plans,
and now I can go ahead and create a new test plan.
So, it's kind of a two-step process.
First, you apply for the free trial of test plans,
and then you ensure you give the required access
to the users.

--- Creating Test cases ---

(upbeat music)
-: So, in the last chapter, we had subscribed
onto a free trial when it comes on a test plans.
Now, in this chapter
let's see how we can create those test plans.
Firstly, I'll go onto boards.
I just wanna check whether,
I have any user stories in place.
Yes, I do have. So let me go back onto the work items.
See, with the help of test plans
you can also have end to end traceability in place.
You can link your test cases onto your user stories.
I'll go onto the test plans feature.
I'll create a new test plan.
I'll just give a test plan name.
This is within my Agile Project.
I'll hit on create.
Let me just hide this.
Here, we can go ahead and create a new test suite.
Either, it can be a static one.
It can be based or linked onto your requirements.
Let me go ahead, and choose the requirement based suite.
We can have, I said
end to end traceability wherein we can link our test plans,
onto our user stories.
It will create a query based on the requirement category.
This is actually gonna fetch all of the user stories.
If I run the query, or I can see the user stories in place.
Let me go ahead, and choose one of them,
and then create the suite.
We now have a suite that is linked
onto this particular user story.
I can now go onto the defined stage.
I'll scroll down.
I can create a new test case.
I'll give a name for the test case.
And, we can add all of the steps.
Remember, this is a manual test case.
You will assign this onto a user
or onto another test engineer, that's gonna go
through these manual test steps.
If everything works as desired, then the user
or the test engineer can go ahead
and mark the test as passed.
So, let me go ahead and add some steps.
Adding some very simple steps.
I'll click on Save and Close.
Let me add another test case.
Let me click on Save and Close.
So, now we have two test cases in place.
If I go back onto my work items, or let me go onto boards.
When you go onto your user stories, now, here you
can see the symbol wherein two test cases have been added.
So, you have two tests now that are part
of this particular user story.
You have now this end to end traceability
in place, where one can go ahead and create those test cases
and, then map it onto the user story.
Let's move onto the next chapters to see how
we can actually run tests against these test cases.

--- Running the test cases ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in the prior chapter
we had gone ahead and defined a test suite
and in those test suite we had some test cases in place.
We can go ahead and now assign those test cases
onto let's say a test engineer who will go ahead
and run the test.
Let me go back onto the test plans.
We just hide this.
I can go onto this entire suite
or I can assign the testers to run all the tests
or I can decide or select my testers
since I just have one user in place,
let me go ahead and choose DOC user one.
You can choose to send an email onto the testers.
I'll click on, okay.
If you click on sending an email,
then email will be sent onto the tester,
the tester can click the email
and start the testing process.
Where as DOC user one
I can also log into Azure DevOps and run the test.
One very important thing to do
is to give the right access level onto the user.
Remember, we had seen in the PowerPoint presentation
that there are different access levels in place.
If I go onto my organization,
I'll go onto organization settings, go onto my users.
Currently, when it comes all DOC user one,
I've given stakeholder access,
let me change the access level
onto basic plus test plans and click on save.
Once this is done, I've logged in as DOC user one.
I'll go onto the Agile project, onto test plans.
Here in test plans, let me go onto all of the test plans.
I'll go onto the application test plan that we created.
We can choose both of the test points.
I can choose to run it
for a web application or a desktop application.
Let me run it for a web application.
This is gonna run a test runner within the browser.
Or I can go onto each of the tests now,
or I can mark it as a pass.
I can go onto the second test
and let's say marking it as a failure.
Remember, these are all manual test cases,
so let's assume that DOC user one is a test engineer.
You assign these test cases to run to DOC user one.
DOC user one, you know, on the sideline
will open up a browser, go onto the application,
test the application based on these test cases,
based on they see as the feedback,
they will then enter that feedback accordingly
in the test cases.
So let's assume that the first test case
as per DOC user one has passed, but the second test case
as per DOC user one, has for the application,
they are not able to see the job postings.
They will mark the test cases as failed
basically these steps
and they will give the comments accordingly.
I'll click on save and close.
Let me refresh this entire page.
You can now see the test results wherein one has passed
and one has failed.
If I go as my admin user, I'll go back onto the project,
I can go onto the test plans.
If I go onto the execute section
or I can choose the one which actually failed,
I can double click on this.
It'll take me onto the test case results.
I can open up the execution history.
You will see the details about the test result itself.
You can view the test result.
You are then directed
onto something known as the Run Explorer
and you'll see details about the test result itself.
So in this chapter
wanna show you how you can assign now the test cases
onto a user and then the user executes the test,
has the results accordingly
and you can view the test results as the admin user.

--- Test and Feedback extension ---

(introduction music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through the test and feedback extension
which can be used to get feedback from your stakeholders.
We've already seen how we could create test plans.
So, it's pretty simple, right?
You create your test suite.
You can create then your test cases.
You have steps as part of the test cases.
You can assign the test cases.
Their users can go it and execute the test cases.
But then, you need to have a certain access level.
Let's say that you just wanna get feedback
from your normal users on an application.
Let's say you've rolled out a new feature of the application
and you just wanna get feedback from the users.
Nothing extravagant when it comes on
to actual test case execution, just normal feedback.
Then we can have the normal stakeholder access granted
onto that user.
We don't need to give the full license
when it comes onto basic and test plans.
As the admin user, let me again go onto the organization,
onto the organization settings.
I'll go onto users, put TOC user one.
Let me change the access level again.
This time we stakeholder access level.
The stakeholder access level is free of cost.
So you can have multiple users
with the stakeholder access level.
I'll click on save.
Once this is done, if I go onto a project,
let me go onto boards.
I'll just hide this.
Let me go onto a user story.
So let's say you have a user story
in place that's in the active state.
You've rolled out maybe a feature, a test feature, maybe,
onto a stating area, and you wanna get feedback from a user.
What you can do is from the context menu,
you can see request feedback, choose the user,
I'll choose TOC user one, and I'll click on Send.
We're now asking for feedback from a user.
Now, how can the user give feedback?
Well, there is an extension known
as the test and feedback extension.
You can install this extension in Google Chrome.
You can install the extension also in Microsoft Edge.
In Microsoft Edge, if I go onto extensions.
I'll open up the Microsoft Edge add-ons.
Let me search for test and feedback.
There is this test and feedback extension.
I'll click on Get.
I'll add the extension.
I have the extension now in place.
I can go onto the extension.
I will need to add the server URL.
This is my server URL.
Take the organization name as well, I'll copy this.
Go back here on test and feedback.
Let me go on to next.
I can choose my project.
Click on Save.
Once you do this, here you can explore the feedback request.
There is one that is pending
because you have been requested to give the feedback.
You can then view the feedback and now provide feedback.
When you're providing feedback now,
you have a number of options in place.
You can add a note.
So as you're giving your feedback,
you can start adding notes.
You can record your screen.
So in addition to adding notes,
so let's say there is an issue
or you feel something is not right when it comes
onto the new feature added onto the application.
In addition to writing the note,
you can also record the screen.
In terms of providing feedback,
so you can only provide feedback at this point in time,
you will not be able to actually create the buck
because, as per the documentation,
when you just have the stakeholder access level
you can't create the buck,
you can just provide the feedback.
You can view the entire session timeline
on what you are doing.
So here, let's say I go ahead and add a note.
I can then click on Save.
So, currently the session is running.
Here you can capture either the browser, the screen
or the application.
Let me just capture the screen.
I'll choose this and click on Share.
So, I can choose a part
of the screen and save the screenshot.
All of this is now coming within the session timeline.
Now, once you finish having all of the data in place,
go onto the provide feedback option and give the response
with your observations and click on Save.
You've now got it and provided your feedback.
I can go it and stop the session.
Now as the admin user,
if you go onto your boards, your work items,
first of all you will see there is one more item.
This is actually for the feedback that has been requested
and another one with a response
that is provided by the user.
You will see the stakeholder comments.
You will see the observation and the screenshot as well.
And you'll see information about the system also.
And all of this is linked onto that user story.
So as a stakeholder,
you can actually go ahead and provide feedback
about an application via the test and feedback extension.

--- Section Resources download ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Quick overview of the section ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome on to this section.
Now in this section,
we are looking at the security perspective
when it comes on to Azure DevOps.
There are a lot of aspects that we have already covered.
For example, we've already looked at service connections
and personal access tokens,
so we'll have a quick revision.
What's very important is
how to use the Azure keyword
when it comes on to managing secrets
when it comes on to your Azure pipelines.
Before that, I'm actually gonna go through
the concept of variables in your pipelines.
We have looked at using variables,
but I want to go to a little bit more in detail
when it comes on to variables
before we go on to usage of the Azure Key Vault.
And when it comes on to scanning,
we've only looked at SonarQube, which is very important.
We're gonna have a look at OVA's as well.
So let's go onwards with this section.

--- Understanding variables ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: So I said the first thing I wanna cover
is actually the usage of variables
when it comes onto your pipeline.
So you can define and reuse a value within the pipeline
with the use of variables.
The value of the variable can actually change
from run to run or from job to job.
You can also define the same variable in different places.
The most locally scope variable will actually take effect.
And you can also use variables within expressions.
We've only seen the usage of variables in our pipeline.
If I take a very basic pipeline,
there was a variable section
in which a defined name value pairs.
For solution, it defined what is a type
of solution file we want to choose
as part of the build of our pipeline.
What is the build platform?
And what is the build configuration?
But I wanna start with the basics.
For this, I'm gonna go on to Azure Repos.
I'll create a new repository.
Just give a name.
I'll just choose to add a README file, that's it.
And I'll hit on Create.
So we have a blank repository.
I'll set up a build.
When we set up a build, the only thing we are getting
when it comes onto configuring the pipeline,
is the startup pipeline
and existing as Azure pipelines' YAML file.
You can show more to see more types
of pipelines that you can configure.
See, earlier on when it came onto Azure Repos,
Azure DevOps was able to understand
that you have a .NET application part
of your Git repository.
Hence, it shows you to configure your pipeline
based on let's say ASP.NET.
But here, as part of my repository,
I don't have anything in place.
That's why it's giving us the option
to start with the startup pipeline.
Let me go ahead and choose this particular option
because we wanna start from the basics.
I'll leave the trigger as it is, the pool as it is.
Here in terms of the steps,
let me go ahead and delete all of this.
Before the steps, let me define variables.
Let me define a variable.
Defining a simple variable name of database server name.
In the steps, let me echo the value of that variable.
This is pretty simple.
We can do the echo command.
And we can reference our variable name accordingly.
Database server name.
A very simple step.
Let me do a save and run.
Let's go on to the job.
Let's wait till this is complete.
The job is complete.
If I go onto the command line task,
you can see it has gone ahead
and echoed the value of the variable.
Very simple use case
in which we define a variable within a pipeline.
Let's go onto our next chapter,
to go more into working with variables.

--- Lab - More on working with variables ---

(upbeat music)
-: So in the prior chapter,
we had started working with variables.
In this chapter, let's look at (indistinct) cases
when it comes onto working with variables
within our pipeline.
I'll go onto the pipeline.
Let me click on Edit Pipeline.
In the pipeline, we are a step
wherein we were echoing the value of the variable.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Let me use Bash now,
to change the value
or set the value of this variable.
So we are also seeing an example of this earlier on Haswell.
This is when it came onto our lease pipeline.
At that point in time,
I had actually shown how you can use this command
when it comes on task dot set variable
to set the value of the variable.
We had done it via the use of
a PowerShell script in a release pipeline.
Here we are now working with the bill YAML pipeline.
And we can use either Bash or PowerShell
to again
set the value of the variable that we have defined here.
Here, the value was server 4,000.
So this is at the global level
in terms of this particular pipeline.
Within a job, let's say within a stage
you want to go ahead and change the value of the variable.
This is one way in which you can go ahead and do this.
I can write a script again to echo the database server name.
Let me save this.
Let's run this again.
Go onto the job.
Job is complete.
If I go onto the first command line
we expected the value server 4,000.
I'll go onto the next command line
and you can see the value has been changed accordingly.
Going back on variables,
let me go and edit the pipeline again.
I'll scroll down.
I'll add another script here.
I'll reference the variable in another way.
This is another way in which we can reference our variable.
Let me go in and save this.
Let's click on save.
Let's go onto the job.
This is complete.
If I go onto the last command line
wherein we had changed the way
in which we were accessing our variable.
We can see that we are getting server 4,000.
So in the previous Bash script here, we had set the value
on server 5,000 and it was coming as server 5,000.
But here, it's coming as server 4,000.
If I go back onto variables, let me click on edit.
So what's the main difference here?
This particular expression is actually
rendered at compile time.
What does this mean?
When this script
when this entire script is actually compiled
so before it actually runs, this will automatically evaluate
onto what is the initial value for the variable.
Whereas if we do a simple echo and we access the variable
in this particular way, this is done at run time.
This is when the script is running.
When the script is actually running right,
it's executing these list of steps.
At that point in time
we are setting the value of the variable.
So this value is only going to be evaluated when
the script is running.
Whereas this value will be evaluated
when the script is compiled at the first time
before it is run.
Hence, it's gonna take this value that is defined here.
So this chapters wanna go through a couple
of more examples when it comes onto the usage of variables.

--- Defining variables in the pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to
go through variables in your release pipeline.
We've actually seen this earlier on
but I want to go through how you can set again
values in your variables as part of your release pipeline.
I'm taking an example
of a release pipeline we'd seen earlier on.
This is my secret app pipeline.
I've made a little bit more simpler.
If I go onto my task here,
I have my a Azure SQL Table creation,
the deployment of my web app and the app server settings.
If I go onto the Azure SQL Table creation
what I done is we had this variable
when it came onto the SQL Server,
fully qualified domain name.
So this pipeline actually had the ERM template inside it.
And you remember from that we were taking the values,
the output values of the fully qualified domain name
of the SQL server, and we were setting variables.
For that we first had to set the variables here
within the pipeline and we didn't assign any value.
This time around in my pipeline,
I'm actually gonna, you know
kind of have the values of the variables in place
within the pipeline.
So let's take the used case scenario
wherein you have your resources in place
and you need a pipeline to deploy the application
along with the table in the database, in existing resources.
I've gone ahead and spun up again
and Azure web app and an Azure SQL database.
So if I go onto my pipeline,
here we have Azure SQL Server,
the fully qualified domain name.
Let me take the fully qualified domain name
and go onto the variables now.
Let me set the value here itself.
I'm setting the value for this fully qualified domain name.
I'll go onto the right.
I'm gonna say that it is not settable at release time
because we've already defined the value here.
I don't change the value.
Going back onto our task.
Apart from that, what did we have?
We also had the password, which was hard coded here.
Let me go onto variables. Let me add a new variable.
Call this as DB password
and let me enter the actual password
which I have set for the user in the database.
Now again, we can see the value here.
In variables I can click on this lock symbol
to change this variable type onto a secret
so that it can't be seen
and we can reference this variable within our task.
I can scroll down here and access the variable accordingly.
Everything seems to be fine for now.
Let me click on save.
I'll go onto my Azure web app,
here, I had the web app name, so I'll copy this.
Go onto the pipeline, onto variables.
Let me set the value here.
And again, it's not settable at release time.
Click on save, go back onto my pipeline.
So this is fine.
I'll go back onto the app service settings.
This is also fine, if I scroll down,
av, SQL server, fully qualified domain name.
So now all we're doing is we are setting the actual values
of these variables within the pipeline itself.
Note here, we can also set the value of a secret.
So we don't want anybody to see the value of DB password.
It is being set as a secret here.
You can then go ahead and create a release
and then you can confirm if everything is working
as expected.
Once the deployment is complete,
so I just have the approval at the end,
but if I take the URL and if I go onto New Tab
I can see my application in place.
Here, the only difference I told you
is we are setting the values
of the variables within the pipeline itself.

--- Lab - Variable groups - YAML pipelines ---

(upbeat electronic music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter
I want to go through Variable Groups.
Here you can store values and you can store secrets as well.
You can access the values from YAML pipelines
and they can be actually accessed
across multiple pipelines within a project.
So we've seen earlier on
wherein you could define variables in YAML
in your build pipeline,
you can define the values
of your variables in the classic release pipeline.
If you want to have the same variables accessible
across pipelines within a project,
so because in those cases,
when we define the variables
within the YAML file or define variables
in the Classic UI of the release pipeline,
it is only accessible to that pipeline itself.
But you might have common variables
that need to be accessed
across multiple pipelines within a project.
For this you make use of variable groups.
And you can also use the Azure command-line interface
to work with variable groups.
So, let's look at a very simple example
on how we can make use of variable groups.
Here, if I go onto Libraries
So before that, let me just copy this database server name.
I'll go onto Library.
I can create a new variable group here.
I can give a name.
Scroll down.
Here I can add variables.
So I can give the name
(keyboard clicking)
and I can give the value as well
and then I can click on "Save".
We have defined the variable here.
If I go back onto my pipelines,
I'll go onto my variables pipeline,
click on "Edit" here.
Let me delete this variable, Database Server Name.
I'll delete all of this.
Just to echo the database server name
that we have in the variable group,
but we need to reference that variable group.
Here, I will define "Variables"
and below that, I'll mention the group.
"Share Variables".
This will now allow all of the variables
in that variable group to be accessible
from this pipeline.
Let me click on "Save".
Let's go onto the job.
We go onto the command line.
You can see the value as expected.
So this chapter I wanna show you
how simple it is to go ahead and create a variable group
and how to use it with your, or within your, YAML pipeline.

--- Variable groups - Classic pipelines ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now, in the prior chapter,
we had seen how to make use of variable groups
within your YAML pipeline.
In this chapter,
I wanna show you how it can make use
of variable groups within your release pipeline.
The classic UI.
In one of our earlier pipelines,
we had defined the variables
of the DB password,
the SQL Server fully qualified domain name,
and the web app name.
Let me define all of these variables
in my shared variables variable group.
Let me delete the existing one that I have,
and let's add each one.
Click on add,
and the entire value,
and the web app name,
and then finally, the database password.
We can also mark this as a secret here as well.
I'll click on save.
I can then delete the variables from here,
because they are no longer required,
they're part of the variable group.
The only thing that you need to do now,
is to go onto variable groups.
Link the variable group.
You can choose shared variables.
This is available across the release stage.
Click on link,
and then click on save.
So now, these variables are available again on your task.
You don't need to make any change here.
Everything remains the same.
The only difference is that now,
it is picking the values of these variables
from the variable group.

--- Lab - Azure Key Vault ---

-: So in the earlier chapters,
we had seen how we could work with variables
in our release pipeline,
how we can use variable groups.
And in the variable groups we could define values as secrets
so that you know they are more secure in nature.
So especially when you have passwords
that need to be in place in your pipeline,
you can define them as secrets.
I now wanna start the integration
of using a service that we have in Azure
when it comes onto storage of secrets.
And you might be familiar with that particular service,
that is Azure Key Vault Service.
This is a managed service in Azure
in which you can safely store your secrets
such as your database passwords.
You can also store your certificates
and your encryption keys.
In this chapter, let's go ahead and create an instance
of the Azure Key Vault Service.
And then in the subsequent chapter
we'll see the integration of the Azure Key Vault
when it comes onto a Azure pipelines.
Let me go onto All resources, and create a new resource.
Search for the Azure Key Vault Service.
Choose that, hit on Create.
I'll choose an existing resource group that I have.
I'll just try to give a unique vault name.
Choose my location, scroll down.
In terms of the days to retain or delete vault,
I'll just keep it as seven days
cause I don't need the vault really.
This is just for demo purposes.
Go on to Access policy, I'll leave everything as it is.
Go on to Networking, view it as all networks,
go onto Review and create.
Let's go ahead and create the key vault,
and let's come back once you have the key vault in place.
Once with the key vault in place,
let's go ahead onto the resource.
And here is where you can actually define
your encryption keys, you can define your secrets,
and you can define your certificates.
Let's mark end onto this chapter, and in the next chapter,
let's see how we can integrate the usage
of the Azure Key Vault with a Azure pipeline.

--- Lab - Azure Key Vault - Pipelines ---

(disco music)
-: So in the prior chapter, we had create an Azure key vault.
Let me go on to secrets and let me define a secret.
Let's say here we are defining the secret value
of a database password that needs
to be consumed in our pipeline.
Let me enter the value of Azure add rate one to three.
Hit on create to create this particular secret.
So we now have a secret defined in our Azure key vault.
Let me show you an example now
of how we can access this particular secret
from a YAML pipeline.
Let me go onto the pipelines.
We'll go onto the variables pipeline.
I'll click on edit.
Let me remove the variables here.
And in terms of the steps, I wanna go ahead
and now add a task under the steps.
I'll go on to show assistant.
There is a task here of downloading
the Azure key vault secrets.
I'll choose this particular task.
I can choose my Azure subscription.
I can choose the key vault.
Yeah, I can't see any results.
So let me go ahead and take the name
of the key vault and place it here.
In terms of the secrets filter, if you only want a filter
on certain secrets to be made available onto your pipeline
you can go in and put accordingly.
I'm putting a star to ensure that we can fetch
any secret that we have from within the key vault
and you can also make the secrets available
onto the whole job.
For now, I'll leave everything as it is
and let me click on add.
So it's added a task here.
The Azure Keyword Task.
It's using my Azure subscription.
We have a key vault name.
We have the secrets filter
and it's running has a pre-job.
Now in the script, I'm gonna echo,
what is the value of DB password?
Since in this particular task, it is now making all
of the secrets available onto this pipeline.
I should be able to now actually get the value
of DB password.
That is the secret,
remember, we had defined in our key vault.
Let me click on save.
Let's go onto the pipeline.
It's saying the pipeline needs permission
to access a resource.
I'll click on view,
let me click on permit.
I'll go onto the job.
Now the job is complete, but we've got an error
when it comes onto the Azure keyword.
Now this is not because we were not able
to search for the keyword name.
If you look at the error message
it's in the user group or application.
And if you go onto the right
does not have secret list permissions on the key vault.
See here, the issue is, when you come onto the key vault,
if I go onto access policies,
to access your encryption keys, your secrets
and your certificates within the key vault,
you have to give the user
or the security principle that's defined
in as Azure Active Directory,
access onto either keys the secrets
or the certificates in the key vault.
This is a special type of permission
that is available when it comes
onto this particular service.
So we have to give now, a service principle ID
access onto the secrets within the key vault.
How do we know what to give access to?
If I go onto another tab,
let me go onto my project settings.
Yeah, let's go onto service connections.
In service connection, that particular task
is using this particular service connection,
Azure subscription one, to connect
onto our Azure subscription
and then it's getting a handle onto the key vault.
There is something known as managed service principle.
I'll click on this.
So in order for a Azure DevOps,
this particular project, to connect onto our Azure account,
because we had authorized this service connection early on
what a Azure DevOps had done is, it had created
a service principle, or kind of an application object,
within our Azure account, in a Azure Active Directory,
and we are taken on to that particular application object.
See, for anything to be given access onto something
with an Azure account, you need to have
some sort of identity defined in Azure Active Directory.
We are actually now gone directly
onto Azure Active Directory,
onto that particular application object.
Again, if you're coming from an AZ-104 background
or an AZ-204 background, you'll be very familiar
with Azure Active Directory and the concept
of having some sort of identity and giving permissions.
Hence, Azure DevOps is now using
this particular identity to access resources
within your Azure subscription.
We now need to specifically give this
particular identity access to the key vault.
I'll go onto the key vault,
I'll click on add access policy.
In terms of the secret permissions,
I'll give 'get' and 'list'.
I'll scroll down, select the principle.
I'll just base this so that we can search for the identity.
Now which one is it?
I can see a couple of them here.
If I go back onto the identity,
sorry that's here.
Look at the client ID, it starts with E1.
If I go back here, E1, that's the first one.
I'll choose this.
I'll hit on select, and let me click on add,
and very important, click on save.
We are now giving access onto that particular identity
that service principle which is defined
in our service connection.
Access onto the secrets in the key vault.
Let's go back onto a pipeline.
Let's run it again.
Go onto variables.
Let's run the pipeline again.
So let's go onto the job.
Let us hide this.
And now you can see that the job is complete.
There is no error.
If you go onto the command line, you can't see the value
of DB password because see, in the end, it's a secret.
You can make use of it now within your script.
So if you wanna connect onto it Azure SQL Database
from within your pipeline, you can do that.
You can now use the variable,
if I go back here and click on edit.
You can now use this dollar and DB password
within your script to reference the value
of that particular secret
you have defined in the key vault.
It's only that from a security perspective.
When you do an echo for that particular secret,
it's gonna show it as a secret,
it's not gonna show the value.
If you wanna confirm you are getting the correct value
of the secret, I'll just enter in some code.
What this code does is it takes the value of a secret,
puts it in a text file, and then we can copy that file
onto our build artifact staging directory,
and then we can publish our
build artifact staging directory.
So I've just entered those particular lines of code.
I said here I'm taking the DB password
and echoing its value onto a text file.
I'm using the task of copy files
to now copy that database password or text file
onto the build artifact staging directory,
and then I have a task to publish that artifact.
To publish, basically, whatever contents
are there as an artifact.
I'll click on save, and let me click on save over here.
Let's wait for the job to complete.
Once the job is complete,
you will see everything has passed.
There is an artifact that has been produced.
Click on it, it'll say to leave.
So it is going onto the artifact.
Click on DB password or dxt, it will download.
Open it and you can see the value accordingly.
So in this chapter, want to now show you
how you can integrate your Azure keyword
when it comes onto your YAML pipelines.
This is one way of doing it.

--- Azure Key Vault - Variable groups ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapter,
I showed you a way in which you can integrate
getting your secrets from the Key Vault
within your YAML pipeline.
In the chapter,
I just wanna show you
how you can also integrate the secrets
which are defined in your Key Vault,
in your variable groups.
Variable groups, we have seen,
can be used to share the variables across pipelines.
We can also make use of variable group
that can be linked onto the secrets in the Azure Key Vault.
Let me go onto my library.
I'll go onto shared variables.
You can see here that you can link secrets
from an as Azure Key Vault as variables.
Once you do this,
here you're given a warning message.
It's saying that once you perform this operation,
it's gonna delete all of these existing variables.
So, do you wanna continue?
Instead of doing this,
let's say you do want the variables in place here.
So here, the only secret is the database password.
Let me delete this.
Click on save,
and we can create another variable group.
Why not?
So, let me go onto the library
and let's create a new variable group.
I'll name this as secret variables,
and now I'll link the secrets from the Azure Key Vault.
I'll choose my service connection.
Go on to the Key Vault name.
Once we've chosen this,
I can now add the variables
and we can choose the secrets now from the Key Vault,
hit on okay,
and then I can click on save.
And then, you can start again using this variable groups
within your YAML pipeline,
or within your classic UI release pipeline.
The only difference here is you have now ensure
that you've linked this particular variable group
with the secrets defined in your Key Vault.

--- Lab - Azure Key Vault - ARM Templates - Static reference ---

(funky intro music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter I wanna show the integration
of your Azure keyword and an ARM template.
We know that the Azure keyword is used as a service
for storing secrets such as your database password.
In an earlier chapter,
when you looked at building a SQL database
and a SQL database server,
we were using an ARM template.
In that I add my "sqldatabase.json" file here,
which was deploying an Azure SQL database server
and an Azure SQL database.
I just change the name of the database here
because I already have a database with the name "App DB",
so I'm creating a new Azure SQL database,
and we had "appparameters.json" file,
in which I was hardcoding the password
for the administrative user here.
But again, not the right approach.
What we can do is we can secure our deployment
by ensuring that the value is taken
from a secret in the Azure keyword.
In our Azure keyword,
we had already defined a secret, known as "DB password".
We can now integrate the usage
of the keyword in our ARM template.
There are a couple of ways we can do this.
One is via a static reference
and the other is a dynamic reference.
In this chapter, I'll show you the static reference,
and in the subsequent chapter
I'll show you a dynamic reference.
The static reference is wherein
we refer the value of the secret in the keyword,
here itself.
In SQL password, I'll add a reference.
I'll put keyword.
I need to mention the ID of the keyword.
How do I get the ID?
Go onto the keyword.
Go onto properties.
You'll be having the resource ID.
Just copy this onto the clipboard.
Paste it here.
And then,
we can take our secret name.
What is the name of the secret in the keyword?
And that's it.
You're kind of done.
Let me go out and click on "save".
Before we can actually deploy these templates
or the template along with the parameter file,
another important thing you have to do for your keyword.
Go on to access policies.
Ensure this is checkmarked:
"Azure resource manager for template deployment."
Click on "save".
We're gonna deploy
a particular template
via a Azure Cloud Shell.
Since you have the parameters file as well,
we'll upload both of our files,
the template file and the parameter file,
onto Azure Cloud Shell
and we'll run our template accordingly.
I'll click on the upload button to upload both of my files.
I have it in one of my temporary folders,
I'll choose "sqldatabase.json".
Click on "open".
Upload the parameters file.
If I do directory listing
I can see both of my files in place.
Here, I can then issue the command.
So I've just copied the command
to do a deployment of the template.
The command I'm using is Easy Deployment Group Create.
I'm specifying the resource group.
My template file is "sqldatabase.json".
And my parameters file is the "parametersfile.json".
Go ahead and hit on enter.
And this should do a deployment
of the SQL database server and the SQL database.
Let's come back once this is complete.
So, after some time, I can see the deployment is complete.
If I go onto another tab,
I can see my new DB database in place.
If you want, you can go ahead and connect to it,
just to confirm.
First you need to go onto the server
so I'll go back onto the overview.
Click on the server name.
I need to set the firewall.
So I'll go onto the networking settings.
Here, I'll scroll down,
add my client IP address.
Click on "save" because we have a firewall
when it comes onto Azure SQL database server.
Now I'll go onto my database,
onto the query editor.
In the password, I'll put Azure AD rate one, two, three.
This is the secret value defined in my keyword.
Click on "okay",
and we are connected.
So in this chapter,
I wanna show you one way
in which you can retrieve the value of a secret
from the keyword,
and embedded that within your ARM template deployment.

--- Lab - Azure Key Vault - ARM Templates - Dynamic reference ---

(upbeat music)
-: Now in the prior chapter I showed you a static way
in which you could embed a reference
onto an Azure keyword when it comes onto the secret.
At that point in time,
we had to give the complete resource ID of the key vault.
Now that's static in nature.
Let's say you wanna have, or you know,
kind of change the name of the key vault,
you need to dynamically reference that key vault.
Here I already have an ERM template in place
that can dynamically reference a key vault.
Before that, let me just go onto all resources here
and delete the new DB
database that I created and the SQL server.
I'll be recreating the database and a new Azure SQL server
with the use of this template.
One key difference is in the early example,
we had our parameters defined in a separate file
and the ERM template in the main file
in the SQL database of J on file.
When you have a dynamic reference
onto a resource that is a key vault
we can't place it in the parameters file.
It needs to be in the main ERM template.
That's why I only have one file in place.
This is my main ERM template.
Here we are kind of using a nested sort of template,
where in resources we have Microsoft dot resources
slash deployments
and the mode is incremental.
And within this, we now have our nested template
in which we have the parameters of the SQL login
and the password
under this the resources to deploy the SQL server.
In terms of the properties, again,
we can mention the login and the login password
and we have our database.
And then when we scroll down
we can mention the values of those parameters,
the SQL user, and when it comes onto the password
we can now dynamically get the resource ID of the key vault.
We take the subscription ID
and the way I'm doing this is I'm defining a variable.
If I scroll on top
there is a variable in which we can use
the inbuilt ERM function of getting
the details about the subscription
in which the ERM template is running in.
So I can get the subscription ID.
Then if I scroll down again
we are then adding the resource group.
And what is a name of the key vault?
I need to replace it with,
what is the current name of my key vault?
So replacing it here
and that's how we can now reference that secret name.
So everything is happening within this ERM template.
Let me copy this.
And let's do a direct deployment now
from within the Azure portal.
So I can do a template deployment,
hit on create,
build my own template in the editor,
place all of this.
Click on save,
choose my resource group.
Go on to review and create.
Let's hit on Create.
And let's come back once this is complete.
Once the deployment is complete,
we can again confirm.
If I go onto databases
I can see my new DB database in place.
Again, I can go onto the overview.
I can click on the server name
or this time directly I can click on set firewall.
This will take me onto the networking settings
for the Azure SQL database server.
I'll scroll down at the client IP address,
click on save,
go back onto the database onto query editor.
I'll enter Azure (inaudible) 1 2 3.
Click on okay, and I'm logged in.
This time around, we saw a dynamic way
in which we can fetch the secret from the key vault.

--- Using OWASP Tool - Build pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter
I want to go through how you can use OWASP,
this tool called the Zap Scanner within your pipeline.
So OWASP is the Open Web Application Security Project,
which is basically a non-profit foundation.
So you have committees across the world
that are working together
in terms of improving security.
In fact, you would've heard of OWASP top 10.
These are the top 10 critical security risks
on to web applications.
You will get details on the site when it comes
on to these top 10 application security risks.
Now, there is a tool known as the Zap scanner
that you can use as part of your pipeline.
What this scanner can do is it can actually go
on to your website and look at all of the security risks
based on what is defined by OWASP themselves.
For implementing this, I've taken help
from this particular link.
When it comes on to leveraging OWASP Zap
in the release pipeline,
you can actually go through this particular page.
So we are gonna be looking at a similar example.
Wherein I want to use the scanner
to scan an application that I have.
So I have an Azure web app running.
I'd used a pipeline earlier on.
So let me go on to a new tab.
And it had a SQL app application in place.
Now for implementing this, we are gonna have some task
when it comes on to a release pipeline.
When it comes on to the classic UI.
We have one task,
which is for the deployment of the Azure web app.
But again, I already have that deployment in place.
So it'll just be, again, a normal deployment
of a data project that we have
on to the existing Azure web app.
The next thing will be an Azure CLI task
to create a storage account.
The next task will be used
to create an Azure container instance.
See, what's gonna happen is we have a Azure web app
against which we want to run a scan
using that OWASP Zap scanner.
This OWASP Zap tool
is actually available as a docker image.
We can create a container
using the Azure container instance.
The application running in that container instance
can then run a scan against the application
running on the Azure web app.
The results of that container instance need to be persisted
or basically stored in an Azure storage account.
This will be done via a fileshare.
That's why we have a task in place
to create a new storage account.
You can always use an existing storage account as well.
So this task is to create that storage account.
This task is to create that Azure container instance.
This task will be used
to download the report from the fileshare.
There is a PowerShell script
that can be used to convert the report,
and then we can publish the test results
on to our pipeline.
So let's go ahead and see
how we can accomplish this.
Firstly in Visual Studio, so I'm gonna be using one
of the existing release pipelines that we have.
We add our SQL App pipeline, our click on edit here.
So it's taking the SQL App connection repository
that I have.
Let me go on to the post-deployment approval.
Just disable this.
Hence, in Visual Studio, I'm gonna clone
that SQL App connection repository that I have
on my local machine.
I'll hit on clone.
This, again, the same SQL-based application
we had seen earlier on
that connects on to an Azure SQL database.
In order to, basically publish our report,
or basically convert our report.
Just double-click on the solution file.
We need to have an Access LT file in place
that needs to be consumed or used by a pipeline.
Again, this file is available, has a resource
where it comes on to the section resources.
So for my project,
I'm gonna add
an existing item.
This is a file, which will be available as a resource.
This is an Access LT file.
I'll choose this file and click on 'Add'.
Because see, in the end, we are gonna be having
an XML file in place.
When it comes on to the output of the test results.
This needs to be checked in to our Git repository.
Let me go on to git changes,
and commit this on to the Git repository.
It's done.
In another tab.
So I'll just close this.
Let me go on to my pipelines to see if it has triggered.
Yes it has triggered the SQL App connection pipeline.
So that's fine.
Let me click on, 'Edit the Pipeline', to see what we have.
This is a normal pipeline in which we have
our pool, our variables, our steps, our tasks,
to build, to publish, and to take
these station directory files, you know, as an artifact.
I'm gonna add now one more task
for the published pipeline artifact.
So I will add it here.
This will be to now publish that Access LT file
so that it'll be available
on to a classic UI release pipeline.
Let's click on 'Save'.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Click on 'Save' here.
So what I'll do is I'll mark it in on to this chapter.
I'll wait for both of these to run.
I'm also sure that this is gonna trigger a release
of my SQL App pipeline, or maybe some other pipelines.
I'll make sure to cancel all of them.
I'll also ensure that this is the only pipeline
that runs when we have a build off our YAML build pipeline.
So make sure all of this is in place
and then we'll come back in our next chapter
to construct the UI pipeline.
When it comes on to integrating that OWASP Zap scanner.

--- Using OWASP Tool - Release pipeline ---

(upbeat music)
-: So I've come back and my job is complete.
There was just a small mistake
that I'd made when it came onto my pipeline
in terms of the directory
in which I had my excess LT file in place.
I had to make sure that I was referencing SQL app
because if I go onto my repos
in another tab in SQL App Connection,
it's under the SQL app folder.
Made sure I did that change and I ran the pipeline again.
Let's go onto our releases now.
I'll edit my SQL app pipeline.
I'll go onto the Jobs.
I'll remove the other two jobs that I have.
See, currently this has already run,
so I will be having anyway
my application connecting onto my SQL database.
What I'll do just to confirm that this is working,
I'll click on Remove.
Just having this in place or to take my artifact
and deploy it onto my existing Azure web app.
Just for now, I will take the name,
make sure that in the variables,
I add a pipeline variable of web app name.
This will be the value,
'cause in the task, I'm referencing as web app name,
click on Save.
I'll quickly just create a release
and make sure that my application is still working
because this is very important.
You have to ensure
that your application is in the working state
in order for the ZAP scanner to go ahead
and perform a scan on your web application.
Once this is complete, I'll just refresh my web application
just to confirm that it's working,
so it's fine, it's working.
I'll now add tasks onto the pipeline.
First task is to create my storage account,
that's gonna be Azure CLI.
I'll click on Add.
This is for the storage account.
I have all of my commands here.
The first two commands
is what's gonna be as part of my task.
This is to create a storage account
with this particular name in my resource group.
I'm creating it in the North Europe location.
The next command is to create a FileShare
with the name of security within the storage account.
Copy this,
here I'll choose the connection,
PowerShell script and inline script,
place this, click on Save.
The next task again, Azure CLI,
is to create my container instance.
Here we have a lot that we need to do.
The actual creation of the container instance is here,
it's easy container create.
I'm creating in my resource group.
This is the name I'm giving onto my container instance.
The image which it is using from Docker Hub,
this is what has that tool in place which will run.
This will have a public IP address,
it'll run on port 8080
and we are gonna be mounting
that FileShare in our storage account
onto this container instance.
For this, we need to give the name of the storage account
that we created and we have to give the account keys.
See, we need some way for this container instance
to authorize itself to access our storage account.
For this, we need to have or use the access keys.
Remember when it comes onto a storage account,
so if I go onto an existing storage account,
we have the access keys in place.
(object clicking)
So if I show a key,
this key can be used to authorize the container instance
to access the FileShare in our storage account.
Hence, we need to get that access key.
This is what is being used to get that access key.
There is a command to list all the keys
that are available with our storage account.
I want to get the value of only the first key
because there are two keys for an Azure storage account.
I'm taking that output onto a TXT file.
I'm getting the content of that TXT file
and then writing it onto a variable onto a key.
I need to ensure
that the value of the key is in double quotes
that's why I'm ensuring that we format that accordingly,
and then we'll have the key in place.
This is gonna be the storage account access key
that can be used by the container
to access the FileShare in our storage account.
Next is the URL of the web application that we want to test.
So in our case, it's our web application here.
Make sure you copy this URL and place it here (indistinct)
if you have obviously a different name.
Again, I need to make sure it's in double quotes
when it comes onto this URL.
I have another variable
in which I'm now calling the ZAP baseline application
that's gonna run within the container,
I'm passing it the complete URLs.
So these parameters are specific onto this Zap tool.
You have to pass in the URL that needs to be tested.
What is the report that the name of the report
that needs to be generated?
We have an XML and HTML report in place
and in the easy container create command,
if I scroll onto the right after the key,
we are giving the name of the FileShare
to copy the reports into,
we actually have to mount that FileShare
onto a mount path within the container
and in the command line,
what is a command that needs to be executed?
What is a command that needs to be executed is right here.
I'll take all of this.
Let's place it here.
PowerShell, in line script.
Click on save.
Now the next task will be to download the report.
Let me create a new task.
I'll again can choose a ZR CLI, click on add.
This will be to download, report.
Go onto the task.
To download the report,
we're using the command of AZ storage file download,
this is the storage account name.
We again need the account key,
what is the name of the FileShare,
what is the report that we wanna download
and the destination,
and the destination is basically in the pipeline
with this particular name.
I'll copy all of this.
(object clicking)
PowerShell again, in line script, paste all of this,
click on save.
The next task is a PowerShell task to convert the report.
(object clicking)
(keyboard clicking)
Here I'll choose an inline script.
So I'm using whatever commands were available
as part of that documentation link
in terms of converting that report,
that report conversion is making use of that excess LT file.
We need to make sure that we give these values accordingly.
Now, how can we actually give the location
of the excess LT file?
Here, if I choose, lets say, a file path,
I'll browse for the file path,
so we can go onto our link artifact.
In the link artifact
if I go on to excess LT,
I can see my access LT file in place.
So it's under underscore SQL app connection.
So, underscore SQL app connection
and excess LT artifact.
(object clicking)
Excess LT artifacts.
(keyboard clicking)
So this seems fine,
so let's copy all of this,
click on cancel.
Now I'll choose an in line, paste all of it,
click on save,
and the last task is to publish the report.
Publish the test results, click on add, scroll down.
The test format is end unit
and in terms of a test result files,
it is the converted report file
that we generate in the last PowerShell script that's here,
what we had specified over here.
With all of this in place,
I'll click on save and let me create a release.
Let's see if all of the go on completion.
If not, we will diagnose the errors
and then run it again accordingly.
Now I'm back.
Now I did run into some issues
when it came onto the release itself,
I'll tell you about the change that I had made.
But after the deployment is a success,
you can see some tests that have failed here.
This is actually coming from that OWASP ZAP scanner.
Here, if you click on the 11 tests
that have actually failed,
you'll be taken onto the test results
and if you scroll down,
you will see what is a test that has actually failed,
you'll get some information on the right hand side.
Now, what is a change that I actually made,
if I go onto my SQL app pipeline,
here the only change I made
was in the stage of a download report.
Actually, this is where I was actually getting an error.
The error I was getting
was that the report which gets generated
by the Azure container instance
in the FileShare was not available.
But when I was to go into the storage account
in the FileShare, I could see that the container instance
was indeed generating the file.
But maybe it's taking time for that file
to basically take effect in terms of its presence
and this Azure CLI script in downloading the report.
So maybe the file is there,
but it's taking time for a Azure to understand
that the file is actually in place
in that particular FileShare.
Hence, in this particular script,
I added a PowerShell cmdlet
to basically just sleep for 30 seconds first
and then continue with the downloading
of that particular report dot XML.
That's the only change I made.
If I go onto all resources within my Azure account
and if I hit on refresh,
you will see the OWASP Azure container instance in place,
this will actually run in the background
and then gone ahead and done its job in running the tool.
Don't worry about the status,
it's run in the background,
it has done its job.
If you go onto the storage account that got created,
so we have the storage account here.
If you go onto the FileShare,
onto the security FileShare,
here you will see the files
that got created by the container instance.
So in this chapter, wanna give you an example
on how you can actually run the OWASP test
when it comes onto the ZAP scanner as part of your pipeline.

--- Review of service connections ---

(upbeat rhythmic music)
-: (instructor) In this chapter, just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to service connections.
This is something we've already seen during this course.
When we want to connect onto an external service
we make use of a service connection.
If you go onto the project settings within your project
you have these service connections.
Here we have a number of service connections in place.
So when as Azure DevOps
wants to connect on to let's say your Azure subscription
or onto GitHub
or onto an Azure Kubernetes cluster
you can create a service connection
and then use it within your pipeline.
Instead of embedding the credentials
for connecting to an external service
within your pipeline itself
you can create a secure connection via service connections,
wherein the credentials for connecting
onto that external service is
within the service connection itself,
and all you have to do
is to reference that service connection
within your pipeline.
So again, we have already seen this is very simple.
Within your project,
if you want to connect onto an external service
you make use of service connections.

--- Review of personal access tokens ---

(bright lively music)
-: In this chapter just wanna give a quick note when
it comes now onto personal access tokens.
We're looking at service connections
this is for Azure DevOps to securely connect
onto an external service.
We'd use personal access tokens
when something needs to authenticate with Azure DevOps.
So the other way around
and incoming connection onto Azure DevOps.
So as an alternate onto a password
you can generate a personal access token
and we had done this earlier on.
If I go onto personal access tokens
we did generate a number of personal access tokens.
For example when we wanted to have a self hosted agent
running on an Azure virtual machine
and that needed to be part of our agent pool
it could use a personal access token.
Or when it wanna become part of a deployment group.
When you create a new personal access token
you decide what is the access you are giving
to that personal access token within Azure DevOps.
So when something needs to connect onto Azure DevOps
onto a particular feature
one way if it is available
is to make use of personal access tokens.

--- Note on secure files ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- GitHub Code Scanning ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- About this section ---

-: Hi and welcome on to this section
when we are looking at implementing
an instrumentation strategy.
So if you are coming from the background of AZ-104
or AZ-204, all of this will be very familiar to you.
In fact, this entire section
is gonna be kind of a revision for you all.
Here we just have to focus on the monitoring aspect
when it comes on to your Azure resources.
And for that, we have to look at the main tool,
that's Azure Monitor,
and how we can use application insights
when it comes on to performance monitoring
for your web applications.
So you would already been very familiar
with the usage of Azure Monitor and application insights.
So most of these concepts
are gonna be from a revision perspective,
at the same time I'll ensure to cover those aspects
which are important from an exam perspective.
So let's go on ahead.

--- Quick look at the Azure Monitor service ---

(upbeat funky music)
Presenter: So the first aspect we're gonna look at
is Azure Monitor.
Azure Monitor is that service
within Azure that helps you to monitor your resources.
I've gone ahead and spun up a set
of resources as part of my Azure subscription
so that we can see some monitoring aspects
when it comes onto the resources itself.
If I go onto the service of Monitor
we have a lot of features
when it comes onto the service.
If you go onto the metric section
here you know that you can scope out metrics
for various resources that are part of your subscription.
Here for example, if I go onto my template
grp resource group, I have a number of resources in place.
If I go, for example
onto a virtual machine scale set that I have
and I hit on apply, let me just minimize this.
You can select various metrics.
For example, if I look at the percentage CPU over time
I can graph this accordingly.
I can also save this onto my dashboard.
So you can have a dashboard of all
of your important metrics that you want to monitor
over time.
So in the metrics section, you can scope
out the metrics or a graph of the metrics for
various resources that are part of your Azure subscription.
At the same time, if you go onto your activity log,
here you will see the different administrative activities
that have been performed on your resources.
Currently, in terms of the filter
it's showing a time span of the last six hours.
If I change this on to last week and hit on apply
I should see some information in place.
I would see all of the operations that have been conducted
on my resources.
This is actually very useful.
Normally when it comes on
to deployment of my resources, especially when
it comes on to, let's say, ARM template deployments.
If something fails, I can always go
onto the Azure Monitor Service.
For example, I have an error here.
Go onto the event itself
and you will see a message as to
why that error occurred.
So I told you in ARM templates, when you deploy it
maybe you might not get the error message straight away.
What you can do is you can go
onto Azure Monitor and debug the error accordingly.
If you go onto the json bit, and if you scroll down
you will see information about the event itself.
This gives you kind of an insight
as to why the error occurred.
I normally use this
as my go-to tool whenever a deployment fails
or any sort of action fails on a particular resource.
So this chapter, just wanna get up
to speed on the key features available when it comes
onto the Azure monitoring service.

--- Azure Monitor - Setting up alerts ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
In this chapter, want to revise the use of alerts
when it comes onto the Azure Monitoring Service.
For example, if you want your IT administrative team
to be notified if any sort of metric goes
beyond a certain threshold.
For example let's say your web application is facing errors.
The users are receiving HTTP responses that correlates
onto errors for accessing the web application.
You can have a metric in place accordingly
and then probably send an email
or notify an IT administrative team.
Or if the CPU percentage of a virtual machine goes
beyond a particular threshold, you can do that as well.
When you create an alert rule,
the first thing is you define the scope.
For which resource do you want to base the alert rule on?
If I filter on all of my resources, so for example
if I take a virtual machine that I have and I click on Done
first step is to define the resource.
The next step, very important, is to define the condition.
You can define the condition based on metrics.
Metrics, that is the CPU being consumed.
You can base it on activity log,
if any sort of operation is performed on the machine.
You can base it on log.
This is a custom log search.
If I click on Custom Log Search,
it will take me onto a Log Analytics workspace.
Now, currently, there's no data found because I don't have
any Log Analytics workspace that actually collecting data
about this Azure virtual machine.
Going back onto creating an alert rule,
(mouse clicking)
so we were on the condition.
And then we have the resource, health of the VM itself.
(mouse clicking)
Here now, let's say I go onto the metrics.
And let's take the metric of the percentage CPU.
If I scroll down, we have two thresholds in place.
One is static, and the other is dynamic.
Next, we have the operator where we can say
if the average CPU percentage is greater than 70%
then ensure to trigger an alert.
Next, we have what is a frequency of evaluation.
The frequency of evaluation is one minute.
At this point in time, it's defined as one minute.
This means that the alert rule is going to check
every one minute whether the average CPU percentage is
greater than 70%.
If I put the frequency of evaluation as every five minutes,
this means the alert rule will check now
once every five minutes
if the percentage CPU is going beyond 70%.
This is the frequency of evaluation.
Next is the aggregation granularity.
Here when you're talking about five minutes,
you are telling the Azure Monitoring Service
when we are evaluating this alert rule
take the data, the average data, over the last five minutes
to come to a conclusion
whether the CPU percentage is going beyond 70%.
If I choose this has 15 minutes,
here we are telling that, okay, once every five minutes
check whether the average CPU percentage
over the last 15 minutes, when you take the average,
if that is going beyond 70%.
Hence, the frequency of evaluation is
the different timeframes at which you want this alert rule
to evaluate this condition.
And the granularity is over how much period of time
do you want take the metrics
and see what is the aggregation type.
It also depends upon the type that you choose here.
For example, if I choose these metrics,
then you can go onto actions.
What is it that you want to do?
For this, you can create something known as an action group.
This comes as a separate resource
when it comes onto your subscription.
I can choose an existing resource group.
I can scroll down.
I can just give a group name.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Go onto Next for notifications.
Here, we can send the notification accordingly.
I can put an email.
Scroll down, hit on Okay.
Just have to give a name.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Go onto Next for actions.
Here, you can trigger an action.
For example, you can run an automation runbook.
You can run an Azure function.
You can send a request onto Event Hub
the different actions that you can perform.
And then go on Tags, go onto View and Create.
This is actually gonna just create the action group.
At this point in time, you still have not created the alert.
This action group will then be assigned onto your alert.
So we come back onto the alert rule.
You can go onto Details.
Here, you can choose the severity.
You can give an alert name.
Go in Tags, go onto View and Create.
And you can go and create the alert accordingly.
So now, based on the alert rule, if the CPU percentage goes
beyond 70% over the last 15 minutes
then you probably will go ahead and get an alert.
So in this chapter, again,
just wanna kind of revise or go through the creation
of an alert rule when it comes onto Azure Monitor.

--- Azure Monitor - Dynamic thresholds ---

(upbeat electronic music)
-: Now, in this chapter
I want to go through dynamic thresholds.
In the prior chapter, when we were defining
our alert rule, we had a threshold type.
It was either static or dynamic.
When it comes onto dynamic thresholds,
your Azure monitor actually uses machine-learning
to check the historical behavior of your metrics.
Based on the historical data,
it can then identify patterns
and anomalies that could indicate possible issues.
When you're defining dynamic thresholds,
you can choose the sensitivity.
If you choose the sensitivity as high,
here the alert rule will be triggered
even for the smallest deviation.
If you have medium, this has more balanced thresholds
and few alerts will be generated.
And finally, if you choose the sensitivity as low,
here the alerts will be triggered on large deviations only.
I'll just go ahead quickly onto Azure
to show you that point
when you can choose the threshold type.
So here in Azure, if I go ahead
and create an alert rule,
I'll filter on all of my resources.
Here, let me take the case of my virtual machine scale set.
Click on "Done".
Code next for the Condition in the signal type.
Let me again just search for CPU.
I'll choose percentage CPU.
I'll scroll down.
Here, in the alert logic, we have static
and we have dynamic.
When we choose static,
here we are statically mentioning a value
when it comes onto the threshold.
So, if the CPU percentage goes beyond 70%
based on the evaluation criteria,
then an alert should be triggered.
If I choose dynamic here,
it's saying greater or less than the average,
but we have something known as a threshold sensitivity.
We are not mentioning a static value here.
And then we can choose the sensitivity.
So what exactly is happening
when we choose the alert logic as dynamic?
The monitoring service
will
look at the metrics of CPU over time,
for your virtual machine scale set.
It will then determine,
what is the normal
CPU percentage
for your virtual machine scale set over time.
If there is a deviation
or many deviations over a period of time,
then it will go ahead and trigger an alert.
So here you are not saying that
a static value of 70%, 50%, no.
You are telling Azure monitor, "You determine
what should be the ideal CPU percentage
over time."
And what Azure Monitor does is
it uses machine-learning to determine
what should be the ideal CPU percentage
over time for this resource.
If there is a deviation from that,
then go ahead and trigger an alert.
Obviously, as your monitor
needs some metrics
for your resources over time
in order to understand
what should be the ideal threshold value
when it comes onto this resource,
when it comes onto that particular metric.
And then we have the sensitivity.
If you choose it as high,
even if there is a small deviation,
it'll go ahead and trigger an alert.
If you choose low,
here the alert will be triggered
only on large deviations.
So if you don't want to have too many alerts over time,
you can go ahead and choose low.
And you again have your evaluation criteria
and in the advanced settings, you can decide
on the number of violations to actually go ahead
and trigger this particular alert.
So in this chapter,
just wanna kind of give you that kind of distinction
between the static and the dynamic threshold
when it comes onto defining your alerts.

--- Log Analytics workspace ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now I want to go through the Log Analytics workspace
that you have in Azure.
Again, kind of a revision.
This is a resource that you can use for storing logs.
So if you wanna have a central repository
when it comes on to the logs that you wanna collect,
you can create a Log Analytics workspace.
You can direct logs from your Azure virtual machines,
from your on-premises servers, from Azure SQL database,
different types of information from resources
all on to the Log Analytics workspace.
For some resources, you can directly go ahead and connect it
from the Log Analytics workspace.
For other resources,
you can play around with the diagnostic setting
to go ahead and send data on to the Log Analytics workspace.
One of the advantages of having this workspace in place
is you can use a query language
that can be used to query for data within the workspace.
So if you wanna search for certain results
when it comes on to your data set,
you can go ahead and use this query language.
You can also have solutions in build
on top of the Log Analytics workspace
that can work with that data
and give you visualizations or details accordingly.
So let's go on to the next chapter
and start working with the Log Analytics workspace.

--- Using a Log Analytics workspace ---

(upbeat music)
-: So here we are in Azure.
Let me go ahead and create a new resource,
that'll be our Log Analytics workspace.
(keyboard clacks)
I'll just search for Log Analytics workspace,
I'll hit on Create,
I'll choose an existing resource group that I have,
just give a workspace name.
I'll choose my location,
go on to Review and Create,
let me go and hit on Create.
Now, the number of resources I have here,
when it comes on to my subscription,
I'm gonna connect a couple of them
on to my Log Analytics workspace.
So I can see I have my workspace in place,
let me go ahead on to the resource.
When it comes on to the workspace,
there's a lot that you can do.
Firstly, I'm gonna go on to my virtual machine,
so I have a virtual machine in place.
I have Staging VM,
I also have a virtual machine scale set also in place.
Let me go on to my virtual machine here
and let me hit on Connect.
What this does is, it will apply an extension
of a Log Analytics agent
that's gonna be installed on the virtual machine.
That Log Analytics agent will actually connect
on to this Log Analytics workspace
and send the data accordingly.
Obviously, we have to decide on the type of data
that needs to be collected in this Log Analytics workspace.
If I go back on to my workspace,
I can go on to agent management.
Here, let me go on to the data collection rules.
Let me create a new rule.
(keyboard clacks)
Just give a rule name.
In terms of region, I'll choose North Europe, um,
the main platform type has Windows
because I have a Windows-based machine.
Go on Next for resources, I'll click on Add resources.
I'll choose my Staging VM, hit on Apply,
go on Next for Collect and Deliver.
Let me add a data source.
In terms of the data source,
I could choose either performance counters
or Windows event logs.
Let me choose Windows event logs
and decide what I want to collect,
let me collect the information
when it comes on to application.
If you want security in terms of system,
any sort of errors or warning messages.
There we go, on to Next for the destination,
so my destination is my Log Analytics workspace.
Let me add the data source.
I can go on Review and Create,
and I can go and then hit on Create.
This will create a data collection rule.
Based on what we have mentioned,
it's gonna collect that data accordingly
on to a Log Analytics workspace.
I'll go on to another resource that I have,
I have a SQL database in place.
If I go on to my databases,
here, if I scroll down, I want to go
on to the diagnostic settings.
Another way in which you can direct the logs
from resources on to a Log Analytics workspace,
I'll add a diagnostic setting,
so here in the diagnostic setting, I'll choose
to store all of the logs.
So I've chosen everything.
Let me give a name and then we can send the data
on to a Log Analytics workspace.
I'm gonna choose my central workspace
and then click on Save.
Now, to take around half an hour
for the data to get accumulated
in the Log Analytics workspace,
so let me come back after some time.
Now, I waited for around half an hour.
When I come back on the Log Analytics workspace,
if I go on to logs, just close this,
I can filter based on the resource type.
When it comes onto SQL databases,
I can see an Azure Diagnostics table in place.
If I just query for the data quickly,
in terms of the result, you will see information
in terms of the errors, database, weight, stats, et cetera.
So all of this information, where it comes
on to the diagnostic setting
for the SQL database is now being recorded
in the Log Analytics workspace.
Similarly, if I go on to virtual machines,
you will see some information here as well.
Here, if you go on to the event table and click on Run,
you will see the logs being recorded here.
With the help of the Log Analytics workspace,
you can collect data from your resources
and query them accordingly.

--- Service Map solution ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter,
I want to go through the Service Map solution.
This solution helps to discover application components
on Windows and Linux-based systems.
You can see information such as connections between servers,
latency for connections, et cetera.
In order to go ahead and use the solution,
you have to ensure that the machines
that are gonna be part of Service Map
is connected onto a Log Analytics Workspace,
and they also need to have
the dependency agent installed on them.
So let me show you how we can use the Service Map solution.
Now, currently in Azure, I have a virtual machine in place.
It's Stating VM.
This particular virtual machine we have seen earlier on
is already connected onto my Log Analytics Workspace.
I have a Log Analytics Workspace in place.
It is connected onto this workspace itself.
So the first job, which we have already done earlier on
is to connect this virtual machine
onto a Log Analytics Workspace.
The next step is to ensure that we install that agent,
that dependency agent on this virtual machine.
In order to go ahead and do this,
I have an ARM template in place
that is gonna go ahead and install this extension.
It's gonna install this extension
for an existing Azure virtual machine.
I need to change the name here
because the name of my machine is Stating VM,
and pretty simple.
It just needs to go ahead and install the dependency agent.
Again here, you can see a condensed version
wherein I'm only having the code in the template,
in the ARM template for deploying the extension.
I'll go ahead and copy this.
Here in Azure, let me create a new resource.
This is gonna be a template deployment.
Hit on Create.
I'll build my own template in the editor.
Let me click on Save.
I'll choose my resource group.
On to View and Create.
And let me go ahead and hit on Create.
Let's wait till the deployment is complete.
Now, once the deployment is complete,
if I go onto my Azure VM,
go onto Extensions.
Here I can see IRV Dependency Agent Installed.
I'll now go onto the Log Analytics Workspace.
That's my central workspace.
Here I'm gonna go onto the Workspace Summary.
Click on Add.
We can add different solutions
when it comes onto the marketplace
on top of the Log Analytics Workspace
I'm searching for Service Map.
I'll choose that particular solution, and hit on Create.
So we're kind of pasting something,
a solution on top of the Log Analytics Workspace.
I'll choose the workspace, go on to View and Create.
And let's go ahead and hit on Create.
Now, once the deployment is done,
I'm gonna wait for around four to five minutes
so that solution can start
working with the data within the workspace itself.
So let's come back after some time.
So after the deployment is complete,
I'll go ahead onto Resource.
I waited for some time as well.
If I go onto the Summary, we are now in the solution itself.
It says "A solution requires additional information."
So it seems that we need more time for Service Map
to go ahead and work with the data.
So let's come back again after some time.
Now I've waited for around five to ten minutes.
When I refresh the page now, in the summary I can see
one machine is now reporting onto Service Map.
That's my Stating VM.
If I click on Stating VM,
here I can zoom in,
and I can just hide this.
You will actually see all of the different ports
which are being recognized as
having some sort of service running
on this as Azure Virtual Machine.
I can see that I also have 10 clients
that are actually trying to connect on Port 3389.
So basically there are some people who are trying
to connect forcefully onto my Azure Virtual Machine.
Here the solution is quite impactful.
It gives you a lot of information when it comes onto
the processes running on the machine itself.

--- Virtual Machine Scale Sets Notification ---

(Upbeat music)
Narrator: Now in the Pride chapter, we had looked
at sending data from a virtual machine
and a SQL database that data onto
the log analytics workspace.
In this chapter, I want to go
through a few aspects when it comes
onto the virtual machine scale set.
Currently I have a virtual machine scale set in place.
Currently, there are two instances running
as part of the virtual machine scale set.
If I go onto the scaling, if I go onto configure,
I can configure a custom auto scale wherein the instance
in the virtual machine scale set can scale based on demand.
Also, if I go onto the notify section here,
here you can only notify when auto scale is enabled.
If I go on a diagnostic setting, again
we have the same case.
So let me go onto the configure section,
go onto custom auto scale.
Let me scroll down onto a scale condition that I have.
So this is a default scale condition
and I have a scale condition one.
In case if we don't have this,
auto creates scale condition one,
let me delete this.
Let's say you only have the default condition in place.
You can go ahead and create a new condition.
So you can scroll down and add a scale condition.
This will create that new scale condition.
So you can say,
(computer keyboard tapping)
now just say auto scale based on network traffic.
I can scale based on a metric.
I can then add a rule.
In adding a rule here,
I could base this on the (indistinct) CPU,
but just to ensure that scaling does occur,
when it comes on to the metric,
I'm gonna choose network.
I'll choose network in total.
Yeah, I always have a little bit
of network traffic that's coming into the virtual machine,
that's part of the virtual machine scale set.
Here I'll say that if the number of bites here,
it's in terms of bites the metric, is greater
than 70 and definitely it's greater than 70.
Here we have the network
in total on average is UN 14.8 kilobytes.
So definitely this threshold value is
gonna trigger an alert.
This is what I want because I wanna show you how
you can send notifications when it comes onto the scaling
that actually happens part
of your virtual machine scale set.
Early duration hazard, it is, I'll scroll down,
you can increase the count
by one instance and have a cool down period.
Let me go ahead and click on add.
In terms of the maximum number of instances
I'll put four, in the minimum I'll put one
in the default, also I'll put one.
And then let me go ahead and click on save.
So now I'm having my own auto scaling condition in place.
If the network traffic goes beyond that threshold
which definitely it will, it'll go ahead and start spinning
up new instances as part of my virtual machine scale set.
Now I can go onto the notify section, and here
I can send an email whenever a scaling happens as part
of my virtual machine scale set.
I'll just add an email ID
and click on save.
At the same time, let this be done,
I'll go onto the diagnostic setting.
I can add a diagnostic setting.
I can choose the auto scale scale actions
and send it onto my log analytics workspace.
(Computer keys tapping)
I'll give a name for the setting and then click on save.
Now, obviously again
this is going to take time, so let's come back
once I have some sort of data in place.
when it comes onto my scaling actions.
Now after some time when I come back
I can see that I've got a notification that the capacity
of my scale set is changing because indeed
if I go onto the instances, I can see more instances running
as part of the virtual machine scale set.
If I go onto my log analytics workspace,
I can see a table here
in place when it comes onto the autoscale action logs.
If I query for this particular table just to look
at the data, click on run, just hide this,
I can see some details in place.
So every action, auto scale action is now
being recorded here.
So with the help of the diagnostic setting
and with the help of the notify setting
so the notify can notify an email address.
Here you are getting all of the details in the log
analytics workspace when it comes onto
every auto scale action.
Now, in case
if your virtual machine scale set is not auto scaling,
if I go onto my scale condition,
make sure that you're adding the metric correctly.
Also, ensure that you have a maximum when it comes
onto the instance limit,
and also check your schedule as well.
Sometimes it might configure a future date when it comes
onto the rule itself,
that means it'll not be triggered right now.
So keep a note of all
of this when you're creating that scaling condition.

--- What is Application Insights ---

(upbeat intro music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now let's have a review of Application Insights
that if you're coming from a background
of AZ-104 or AZ-204,
you'll be very familiar with this particular service.
So this will be a quick review.
We'll also see, again, a quick example
on how you can set up Application Insights
for those who are not familiar with the service itself.
So Application Insights provides the feature
when it comes on to application performance management
and monitoring of your live web applications.
Here you can see aspects
that it's detecting performance issues
or any other issues when it comes onto your application.
There is support for .Net, for Note.gs, Java, and Python.
This can work for applications
that are hosted in Azure
on your on premises environment or other cloud platforms
as well.
It has integration with Visual Studio,
has an integrate development environment
and here you can see several aspects,
such as how your users interact with your application.
So, how does it normally work?
Well, you install a small instrumentation package
that is an SDK for your application
or you can use the Application Insights agent.
You can then instrument your web application,
your background components,
and even your JavaScript in your web pages.
The telemetric data send by Application Insights
has very little impact when comes
onto the overall performance of your application.
So in the next chapter,
let's look at an example where it comes
onto the usage of Application Insights.

--- Example on using Application Insights ---

(upbeat music)
-: So now in order to showcase the usage
of application insights here in my Azure account
as part of all resources,
I am first gonna create an Azure web app.
I don't have any web app in place.
So let me go onto this particular service.
Choose an existing resource group.
Let's try to give a unique name,
in terms of the Core I'll choose .NET six.
I'll choose the location.
I'll leave all of this as it is.
Go onto deployment,
onto networking,
onto monitoring.
Now, when it comes onto monitoring,
yes I am going create an application insights resource.
I'll just give a different name.
Hit on okay,
go next with, go onto review and create.
And we go and hit on create.
So what we bring here is
in addition to creating our Azure web app
we are creating another resource that is based
on the application inside service.
We are linking them together.
Then from Visual Studio,
we'll have again a normal ASP.NET Core web application.
We will first ensure to integrate that web application
with application insights
and then we can promote our web application
from Visual Studio onto this web app itself.
I'm gonna wait
for the deployment to complete and then come back.
So once I have the Azure web app in place
I can go onto the resource.
Here if I scroll down,
if I go onto Application Insights
it is currently enabled.
In terms of .NET Core, in terms of instrumentation,
the collection level is recommended
and you can change the other settings has required.
At the moment, I'm keeping everything as it is.
In Visual Studio on my local machine.
Let me quickly create a new project.
Again, ASP.NET Core, go onto next,
let's give a project name,
go onto next, hit on create.
Just go onto the pages
just make a change onto the index page.
Click on save.
Now I'll integrate this with application insights.
I'll go onto the project.
I'll right click.
I'll choose the option of configure application insights.
I'll choose Azure Application Insights, go onto next.
I'll choose the resource
because I'm logged into my account.
Go onto next,
it's basically gonna configure a connection string.
Go onto next and then hit on finish.
So this is done.
It also installs some new Git packages when it comes
onto instrumenting application insights
for your application itself.
I then hit on close.
I now publish my project
for my local machine onto my Azure web app.
So I'll choose Azure, go onto next,
Azure App Service, go onto next.
I'll choose my Insights app.
Hit on finish.
This will create a published profile.
Let me hit on the publish button.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once it is complete, it'll launch the application
in the Edge browser.
I want to go onto the application insights resource
that we have.
This is the one, I'll go onto it.
Here if you go onto Live Metrics.
Let me just hide this.
The live metrics is connecting.
The stream is connecting onto my application.
So if you go onto the application
go onto the different parts of the application itself.
Here you will start to see live metrics
about the application.
That means you've gone ahead
and connected the application that's running
in the Azure Web App Service
onto this application Insights resource.
This is how you can start seeing live telemetry
data when it comes onto your web application
that's hosted on the Azure Web app.

--- Application Insights - Availability test ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter,
I want to go through the availability feature,
when it comes onto Application Insights.
Here you can actually add tests that can do basic tests
against your web application.
So just as an example,
if I go ahead and wanna test
whether my site, that's Insights App,
is always available from different locations,
I just wanna do kind of a standard check
to ensure that when I send a request onto the URL
for my web application, I get a successful response back.
We can create a quick availability test
within the Application Insights resource.
You can choose to add a standard test.
We can give a test name.
(keyboard tapping)
What is the URL I want to test?
I'll just take the URL of my Azure Web App
and place it here.
If you want to check all of the dependent request,
for example,
if your Web Application has images or it has JavaScript,
you wanna ensure that all of that is also checked,
whether it loads as expected,
when a request is sent, you're getting a response back.
You can check to pass dependent request.
If I scroll down, you can choose your test frequency,
by default, it is five minutes.
In terms of the test locations
you can test your application from various locations
and also get the response time, a pretty useful feature.
The standard test info, so you are making a GET request
and you're expecting a 200 response,
that's the okay response
when it comes onto an STP GET request.
And then you can go ahead and hit on create,
this will create a simple availability test.
I'm gonna wait for around 15 to 20 minutes
to ensure that we have some results in place
when it comes onto our availability test.
Now I've come back after some time.
Yeah, I can see my results of the of availability test
from different locations.
You can look that all of them have actually passed.
That means the test is able to get a successful
response back from our website.
You can see the average duration
in terms of getting the request back
from different locations.
If you drill into the 30 successful results over here,
you can actually click on this button
to go on and see the end-to-end transaction details.
So in this chapter, wanna kind of go through
how you can use this a availability test
that is available within Application Insights.

--- Application Insights - Other features ---

(bouncy music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
wanna go through some important points
when it comes onto Application Insights.
This is from the exam perspective.
Firstly, are the different things that we can record
when it comes onto Application Insights.
We had already seen that live telemetry data
that we get as part of this particular service.
Apart from that, you can also see your users,
your session, and your event data.
When it comes on to users, you can see how many people
have actually used your application and its features.
You can see sessions of the user activity.
This includes certain pages
and features of the application itself.
You have events.
This gives a view of how often certain pages
and features have been used in the application.
You have this concept of having funnels in place.
Here, you can have multiple stages like a pipeline,
and then see how users are progressing
through your application has an entire process.
You have cohorts.
This is a set of users, sessions, events, operations.
There are something in common.
It helps to analyze a particular set of users or events.
You have impact.
Here you can see how the low times
and other aspects of your application
impact the conversion rate of the application itself.
You have retention.
Here you can analyze how many users
return back to your application.
You have user flows.
This helps in answering questions such as:
what do users click on a page within the application?
Where are the places within the application
the users churn out the most in the site?
And are there places in the application
where the users repeat the same action over and over again?
So for your Application Insights resource,
for example, if you go onto the sessions data,
you can see two sessions in place,
and you'll see information about the sessions
if you go and click on view more insights.
You can see the events, you have panels,
you have user flows, et cetera.
We're not going through the details
of each of these features.
When it comes onto the exam,
you should just understand what each feature does.
Apart from that, another important note is the performance.
If you go onto the performance part of Application Insights,
you will see all of the operations.
Let me just go ahead and hide this.
You'll see all of the operations
that have been performed on your web application.
Each get request that have been made,
you will see the average duration and the count as well.
And then finally, when it comes onto Application Insights,
another very important feature
is the smart detection feature where it comes onto failures.
Here you can be alerted in real time
if your web application experiences any sort
of abnormal rise in terms of rate of failed requests.
So instead of you trying to track this,
this can be done automatically
with the help of the smart detection feature
when it comes onto Application Insights.
If we go onto Application Insights resource
and you scroll down,
there is something known as the smart detection feature,
and all of this is already enabled for you.
All of these rules are already enabled.
And how do you get notified?
If I go onto the monitor service in another tab,
if I go onto the alert,
if you go onto the action groups,
there will automatically be an action group
known as Application Insights Smart Detection
that gets created because you've created
that Application Insights resource.
You can click on the edit button.
Here there are already some notifications in place,
but then you can always go ahead
and add your own notifications
and your own actions onto the action group.
So I just wanna go through some important features
when it comes onto the usage of Application Insights.

--- Important note on Application Insights ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter, I just wanna give a quick note,
an important note actually
when it comes onto Application Insights.
In our case,
when we created the Application Insights resource
it was created along with the Azure Web app.
Now, the default way of Application Insights
storing its data is via a Log Analytics workspace.
So, in the background you'll have a Log Analytics workspace
that stores all of the data
that is being recorded by Application Insights.
There you will see that it is being linked
onto a default workspace.
In fact, you can separately create
an Application Insights resource
and probably link it onto an existing
Log Analytics workspace.
If I click on the workspace itself
and let me go onto the logs, just hide this, and open up.
In terms of the tables, let me reduce the zoom,
you'll see a number of tables in place.
For example, if I look at the data in the app request table
and I click on run.
You will see information about all of the get requests
that we had seen early on
when it came onto the performance section
for Application Insights.
So in the end, all of the data,
when it comes onto Application Insights by default
is being recorded in a Log Analytics workspace.
So, you could either query for the data here itself
but Application Insights gives you a way
to visualize data that's being stored over here.
So in this chapter, wanna give that important note
so that you know that in the end
the data for Application Insights
by default gets stored in a Log Analytics workspace.

--- Note - Azure Container Instances probes ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, and welcome back.
Now, in this chapter
I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes onto the probes
that you can configure for your containers
when they are being deployed
on to Azure Container Instances.
You can actually use YAML files
when it comes onto the deployment
of your container instances.
This is done by the use of container groups.
Now, there's something known as a Liveness Probe
wherein by you scroll on onto the YAML deployment.
When you're doing the deployment itself,
you can specify that you want to have this probe in place
and what is appeared in seconds.
See, what this does is,
let's say your container is not working for some reason.
It can go ahead and actually restart
the container automatically.
This is very important if you have functionality
within the container that needs to be up and running,
and let's say it's crashed because of some error
you can go ahead and ensure
that the container instance
can restart the container automatically.
Another probe that is available is the Readiness Probe.
If I scroll down, so let's say that your container,
your application container, depends upon a database
being up and running and having data in place.
You can ensure that you have the Readiness Probe in place.
In the Readiness Probe,
you'll actually have commands in place to check,
once the data is in place,
then go ahead and start this particular container.
Because let's say you have an application running
in the container and it tries to connect to a database
which is not in the ready state,
the application will get an error.
So this is from the perspective of the exam.
Just wanted you all to know
on these two types of probes
that you can have for your container instances.

--- Note - Azure DevOps notifications ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter,
I just wanna give a quick note
when it comes on to notifications in your pipeline.
Here, if I go on to my user settings
and there should be something known as notifications.
So in terms of your user settings,
you have a lot of notifications that are already in place.
So it's not only in terms of your pipeline.
Whenever a build completes, you'll get a notification.
Whenever there is a pull request on to your Git repository,
you will get a notification.
So all of the notifications are already in place.
If you wanna create a different type of notification,
because here you can see that you can only view aspects
about the notification, you can't edit it.
But you can always create a new subscription.
Here let's say when a build has been completed,
you go on to next.
You can then decide if you want to go ahead
and have another email that gets notified
whenever this build does complete.
So within your user settings,
when it comes on to your Azure DevOps account,
you can go ahead and have different notifications in place.
I wanna ensure that I give this quick note on the students
on where you can actually go ahead
and set these notifications accordingly.

--- Note on IT Service Management Connector ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I just want give a quick note
when it comes onto the IT Service Management Connector.
When it comes on to Azure,
you have the alerts that can be defined for various metrics
that are being recorded in the Azure monitoring service.
But your company might be using an external tool
when it comes onto, let's say, incident management.
So if there is any sort of incident that actually occurs
in your production-based environment.
So let's say that an alert gets generated
while the use of the CPU going beyond a particular threshold
for your Azure virtual machine.
Now, you also wanna ensure as a company
that an incident, you know, a problem gets recorded
in the service management solution that they are using.
So they could be using ServiceNow
as a service management solution.
At that point in time
they might want to have an integration
between Azure Monitor and the service management solution.
They can make use of IT Service Management Connector
so they can connect their service management solution
onto Azure Monitor.
So whenever an alert gets triggered
within the Azure monitoring service,
it could create an incident
within their service management solution.
In this chapter, I wanna give this quick note
when it comes onto the IT Service Management Connector.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
