

=== Introduction ===


--- PDF and Diagrams download ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- How the course has been structured ---

Hi and welcome to this course again.
Now in this chapter, I want to go through important points on, first of all, how the course has been
structured and the important points about the course itself.
Here I am on the Microsoft documentation page when it comes on to being Microsoft certified as an Azure
Administrator.
If we scroll down, we know that we need to give exam AZ 104.
That's what we're here for, to study for the exam.
If I scroll down, in addition to being able to schedule the exam, we also have the official exam study
guide.
Click on it.
So as you're going through the course, maybe you can also refer to the exam study guide.
I've made sure that whatever topics are being discussed in this course is being aligned with the skills
that are being measured here.
We have five major sections.
We have Managing Azure identities, implementing and managing storage, deploying and managing compute
resources, virtual networking, and then Azure Resources.
How do we monitor and maintain them?
Now when it comes on to this course.
Okay.
What am I starting with first?
Obviously just having an optional section on how do you start working on the Azure platform, in case
if you're already familiar, you can go ahead and skip this particular section.
Then I'm going on to deploying and managing Azure Compute Resources.
So I am not starting with Azure Identities and Governance.
I'll be doing that later on.
I thought has a logical flow.
Let's first start with working with resources on Azure itself.
And I want to start with one of the most commonly used resources.
And that's the Azure Virtual Machine that comes under compute resources.
So we're going to start with, you know deploying and managing Azure Compute resources.
That's Azure virtual machines first.
And then after virtual machines I'll go through important aspects about the VM itself and see how we
can also work with containers.
I have a separate section when it comes on to ARM templates and also Bicep based files, because ARM
templates is important from an exam perspective, and hence I have dedicated an entire section just
to this.
Again, that's later on in the course.
So if we look at the sections I have Azure Compute Resources.
Then we dive into networking.
We have implementing and managing storage then identities Monitor and backup.
I have a separate section when it comes onto Azure PowerShell and Azure CLI.
Then Azure Resource Manager and the Bicep language in each section.
Right I have videos, I have labs.
So what I like to do is I like to practice on the Azure platform.
You know once you practice and you know in and out when it comes onto a service, when you hit problems
using a particular service, you will refer on to the Microsoft documentation.
And the Microsoft documentation is rich in information.
You can go through it.
It makes you prepared.
You know, from an exam perspective.
I have a lot of labs you can go ahead and actually follow along in using Azure based services when it
comes on to, you know, um, explaining key concepts.
I make use of diagrams that I have in another tool known as lucidchart.
I make sure that I take a screenshot of all of the diagrams and make it available as a PDF file.
I don't give access on to Lucidchart itself because it will become unmanageable.
So what I normally do is I create a screenshot of all the diagrams discussed in this course.
It's available as a PDF.
You can download the PDF and refer to this accordingly.
This is all when it comes onto the key concepts that I discuss in this course.
And then I said I have multiple labs also in place.
Then at the end of each section I do have a section quiz that helps you, you know, test out key concepts.
And then in the end, I do have a practice section in which I have practice tests in place.
I also make sure to keep a note of the announcements, so I make key announcements when it comes onto
the course.
Remember there's also a Q&amp;A section, so if you have any questions you can always go and reach out to
me via Q and A's.
So in this chapter I want to give some important points when it comes onto how the course has been structured.


=== Starting with Azure (Optional) ===


--- Introduction to Azure ---

Right now.
Obviously we need to learn how to use services on the Azure platform.
That's why in the next set of chapters, as part of this introductory section, I want to showcase how
we can create something known as Azure Free Account, how you can start using services, how you can
start using services for free using the account itself.
So what is Azure?
Azure is a leading cloud provider when it comes onto offering various products and services.
You can use these services to build, manage and deploy applications.
They have global infrastructure located across the world in which you can make use of the various services.
Now, what we're going to be doing is we're going to be using firstly, the Azure AI foundry service.
Within Azure AI foundry service.
You can deploy the various models that are available from different vendors.
So for example, when it comes onto open AI, we can deploy the GPT 4.1 model and other models as well.
And then we can start consuming these models from our applications.
We can also use the various playgrounds within Azure AI foundry to work with the models.
Then in subsequent sections, we're going to see how to work with the various Azure AI services.
I told you that Azure already has their own set of AI based services that you can infuse in your applications.
For example, we have the Azure AI translator.
We have the Azure AI vision service.
We have the language service.
We have content safety which is so important to monitor for text and images that can be used to detect
offensive and inappropriate content.
So there's a lot that we need to cover.
So Azure is a cloud platform that we can use for a variety of applications.
We can build and deploy applications and then infuse AI into the applications itself.
So in the subsequent chapters, I just want to showcase how we can basically create an Azure free account.


=== Deploy and Manage Azure compute resources ===


--- The Azure Free Account ---

Now this goes, I'm going to be going through these services that Azure has to offer.
If you want to follow along, you can actually go ahead and create something known as an Azure Free
account.
You can get started very quickly using Azure based services.
They provide the facility where you can get started for Azure with Azure for free.
Here on the home page, if I click on Get Started with Azure, this will take me onto the option where
we can try Azure for free.
And I said we can create something known as an Azure Free account.
Let me scroll down.
The Azure Free account is available only to new Azure customers.
Here you get free monthly amounts when it comes onto using popular services.
You also get $200 worth of free credit that you can use on your Azure services that's available for
30 days.
So let's say that you are using a service that has a cost associated with using the service itself.
The usage, you know, the cost usage can be deducted from that $200 worth of free credit.
So you get this $200 worth of free credit that you can use to explore what services Azure has to offer.
And the credit is valid for 30 days.
If I scroll down, you will see some of the services that you do get for free when it comes onto the
Azure Free account.
For example, if you are using the Virtual Machine service, we are going to be looking at using this
particular service in the next section.
So with the virtual machine service, if it's based on, let's say windows, you get 750 hours free
per month, you know, for a particular instance type.
Again, we'll go through these concepts as we go through services on the Azure platform.
So there's certain services that you do get for free.
So you can actually go through this list to understand the service that you do get for free.
If I scroll down even further, I want to go on to the FAQs.
Now very important, do go through these frequently asked questions, because students do ask me various
doubts when it comes on to creating this Azure free account.
In order to create the Azure Free account.
You will need to provide either a credit card or a debit card and a phone number.
So Microsoft uses the phone number and the credit card or debit card details to identify the verification
to validate the account holder.
They want to validate that we are indeed real people and not bots who are trying who are trying to create
this Azure free account.
Hence, in order to create the Azure Free account, we will need to have a credit card or a debit card
in place and a phone number.
Now what happens?
You know, once I utilize my $200 worth of free credit.
So after this, Azure will prompt you saying that, okay, your $200 worth of free credit is over.
Do you want to continue using Azure based services?
If you want to continue using Azure Based services, you can do so.
You will then need to convert on something known as a pay as you go pricing, where you only pay based
on how much you use during the initial 30 days.
When you do get that $200 worth of free credit, you will not be charged, right?
If I said if there's any charge when it comes to using a service, it will go against that $200 worth
of free credit.
So go to this page to understand all the important concepts when it comes on to creating the Azure Free
account.
In the next chapter, I'll go through an example on how we can create such a free account.


=== Configure and manage virtual networking ===


--- Creating an Azure Free Account ---

Right.
So let's see how we can create an Azure free account.
Now currently in hand I have a Gmail account in place.
I'm going to use that to try and register myself to create an Azure free account.
We can also use a GitHub account as well to register for an Azure free account.
I've also got my phone readily available and a credit card here.
Let me try Azure for free.
Now please note that I am not a new Azure customer.
I have already created an Azure free account earlier on.
Hence, I won't be able to get that $200 worth of free credit for 30 days.
But that's fine.
My job is to teach you about the various services that Azure has to offer for you.
If you are newly signing in on Azure, you are a new Azure customer.
You will indeed get that $200 worth of free credit that you can use for 30 days.
I'm going to go ahead and use an email ID that I have.
So I said I do have a Gmail account in place.
Let me click on next.
It's saying that we can't find an account with that username.
name it's telling me.
First, please go ahead and create a new Microsoft account.
So what I'll do is let me click on create a new account, create a new Microsoft account.
And I'll say yes, I do want to create a new account using my existing Gmail account.
I'll click on next.
It's in a verification email to my Gmail account.
Let me go ahead and see if I've got yes, I have got a code.
I'll go ahead and put in that code.
So I've gone to my email address.
I've got a code.
Now I need to add details about myself.
So let me go ahead and add the details accordingly.
Add the details.
Click on the next button.
Ask me to give the name that I want to assign to my Microsoft account.
I'll add my details accordingly and click on next.
So let's prove that you're a human.
I'll click on press and hold.
On my mouse I'm I've clicked on my mouse and I'm just pressing on it just to verify that I'm indeed
a human.
Once the verification is complete, it would have gone ahead and created the Microsoft account.
Now with this Microsoft account, we are signed in.
We can now create our Azure Free account.
Again, I'll need to give my various details here.
We need to use our phone number to verify our identity.
I'll just say to text me I should be getting a text message.
So I'm getting the verification code on my mobile device.
I'll go ahead and just add the code that I've received.
Click on verify code.
So that's done.
I've added the relevant details on this page.
I'll click on the next button.
I'll just verify my address and say use this address.
Now in order to complete our profile we will need to do an identity verification by card.
I have added my required details.
Click on the sign up button.
You think in order to protect our account.
B to enable something known as multi-factor authentication.
I'll click on next.
This means that in addition to providing a username and password, we will need to use an additional
mechanism in order to log in onto the Azure portal.
But here it's telling us that we're ready to start using Azure.
I'll click on go onto the Azure portal itself.
And now we're logged onto Azure.
I've also noticed that in terms of my credit card I was.
I got a charge of 1 USD and I believe this is just an identification charge.
This might either be charged a credit card or it will be reversed because you know, from the Microsoft
documentation, it clearly states that there will be no charges just used, you know, from an identification
perspective.
Right.
So in this chapter, I want to go through the process of, you know, how do you create an Azure free
account.
All right.
Let's go ahead and mark it in onto this chapter.


=== Implement and manage storage ===


--- Tour of the Azure Portal ---

In this chapter, let's have an initial tour of the Azure portal.
We are going to be working with the Azure based services from the portal itself.
So we are using a web browser.
In the web browser we go on to https portal.azure.com.
This is the link if you want to log on to the Azure portal itself.
Here we are logged in with our Microsoft account.
This Microsoft account was created based on an existing Gmail account that I had.
When you log in, we are taken onto this kind of quick start center.
We'll be working with.
If I go on to the left hand side onto the portal menu, we'll be working with creating resources on
the Azure platform.
We'll be creating resources based on services that Azure has to offer.
So for example we'll be working with the SQL Database Service.
We'll be working with Azure Cosmos DB.
will be working extensively with virtual machines, so on and so forth.
When it comes on to your account, so on the right hand side, you can see that you are signed in with
your Microsoft account.
If there are any notifications.
So for example, when you log in the next time you will probably get a notification on how much credit
you currently have.
When it comes onto your Azure account, currently, I don't have any notifications in place.
Here we can search for resources, services, etc. if I search for something known as subscriptions,
let me just click on subscription.
This has taken me onto a new page.
In this page I can see that I have something known as Azure Subscription one.
When we start using services on Azure if there are any costs linked onto using a particular service.
Those costs are actually built against your subscription currently.
Since I have not started using the Azure platform, there is no current cost that is available.
As you know, as part of this course, I will be going through important aspects when it comes onto
costing.
Normally costing is very, very important not only from an exam perspective, but for you all as students.
When you start using services on the Azure platform, it's very important to monitor the cost when we
can go back onto the home screen.
Within home, we can see that we have Azure services.
We've not used any recent services and we got some useful links in place.
So this is just an initial tour of this interface.
Obviously when we start using services on Azure, you'll get more and more familiar with using the Azure
portal itself.


=== NEW - Azure PowerShell and Azure CLI ===


--- Code resources for this section ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== NEW - Azure Resource Manager Templates ===


--- We are going to start with the Azure virtual machine service ---

High and warm.
Welcome back.
So now in these series of chapters we are going to look at the virtual Machine service.
One of the most popular services on the cloud platform.
First and foremost we'll look into what goes into deploying an Azure VM.
Then we'll see how to actually deploy virtual machines onto Azure.
We'll look at examples on deploying both windows based servers and Linux based distribution based servers.
We'll see how to deploy simple workloads on these virtual machines.
So in the first set of chapters we want to look at virtual machines.
These are like, you know, simple on demand.
They are flexible in nature.
You can deploy them within a matter of minutes.
So instead of a company actually spending time or money in investing in hardware and physical hardware,
they can offer using the virtual machine service.
This will actually form the basis.
And this is the basic compute service.
That's why I'm starting with the service itself.
So let's move on to the next set of chapters.
Let's first of all understand the bare bone concepts when it comes onto the virtual machine service
itself, and then subsequently look into deploying virtual machines on the Azure platform.


=== NEW - Bicep language for deploying resources ===


--- The anatomy behind building an Azure virtual machine ---

Now, in this chapter, I just want to give a kind of a simple introduction over the concept of the
virtual machine service.
Again, this is just for the benefits of those students who are not familiar with these base services
on Azure.
The Virtual Machine service allows you to host virtual machines without the need of buying and maintaining
the underlying physical hardware.
And here, the best thing about this service is you only pay based on the usage of the service itself.
In the past, if a company had to host a set of applications, they would first need to invest money
in buying servers, buying storage, setting up different aspects in the background like networking,
cooling, etc. they would need to build data centers.
All this was an upfront cost for the company itself.
They would then host their Applications.
Then we had the advent of virtualization.
In virtualization on your physical server, you would install virtualization software, a hypervisor.
With the help of this hypervisor, you could start building virtual machines.
So you could have multiple machines now running on a single physical server.
The virtual machines would use the hardware of the underlying physical server itself.
Now the advantage was that you could have multiple applications running on these virtual machines,
and you could make use of the capacity of the underlying physical server itself.
But here again, the problem is that in order to start using virtualization, the company still has
to buy the underlying physical hardware in terms of what in terms of either the physical servers, the
storage, the software, etc. there's a lot of work that needs to be done just to get the virtual machines
in place for hosting your applications in Azure.
With the help of the virtual machine service, the underlying physical infrastructure, the hardware
is maintained by Azure themselves from Microsoft.
All you have to do is you have to deploy your VMs and start using them.
The company does not need the overall burden of, you know, investing in buying physical hardware,
in buying storage, etc. they go onto the cloud, onto Azure.
They say, I want to build a virtual machine.
I want to deploy a virtual machine onto my account, and within a matter of minutes, you'll have the
virtual machine up and running.
And we're going to see this in the subsequent chapters.
Us.
Now we are going to build a virtual machine.
In subsequent chapters, I told you we'll see an example of building a machine based on Windows Server
and an example of building a machine based on Ubuntu Server Linux distribution, a Linux flavor.
Basically, I want to cover some bare bone concepts.
I said this is for students who are not familiar with the Azure platform.
So we have our Azure account in place.
We can now make use of Azure services to build something known as resources.
The VM that we are going to build is known as a resource.
The resource is actually based on a service known as the Virtual Machine Service.
So we're going to tell Azure please go ahead and build a resource based on the virtual machine service
on the cloud.
When you do this there are several aspects that we have to consider.
First and foremost is when we do build a resource on the cloud and you'll get familiar with these concepts.
I said, if you're new as we go through these labs, you'll get a better understanding of these concepts.
Firstly, is something known as the Azure subscription.
When you create your Azure account, you get an Azure subscription.
All of your services, whatever you consume, are actually billed against this subscription.
Remember, when you create your Azure Free account, you get a $200 worth of free credit during the
first 30 days.
If you do consume services that have a cost linked to it, that cost will go against that $200 worth
of free credit.
Even if you don't have the $200 worth of free credit and you're using a pay as you go model, when you
only pay based on how much you use, remember that Azure is not going to upfront charge you for using
the resource itself or using the service You are billed based on how much you use.
So in our labs we'll go through building resources, but at the same time I'll tell you all, okay.
Please go ahead and delete resources that are no longer required.
Because even if you run your resources, your services for, let's say, 20 minutes, you won't get
billed that much of an amount because I said there's very minimal cost when it comes onto using certain
services.
So again, the Azure subscription is used for billing purposes.
Then when you deploy a resource, it has to be part of something known as a resource group.
The resource group is a logical grouping of resources.
I'll explain this as we go along the way.
Then when we deploy the machine, we have to obviously give a name for the machine.
We have to decide on where to host the machine in Azure.
There are different regions across the world where you have to mention.
Okay, I'm going to build, let's say, my virtual machine in the East US location.
See, in the end, yes, we are working with a cloud platform.
We are telling the cloud platform, please go ahead and build a virtual machine for us.
But remember, in the end that VM has to be hosted on some sort of physical hardware that's maintained
by Azure.
That physical hardware has to be in some data center in some location.
Hence, in the end, we still do need to mention, okay, in which region should we host our virtual
machine?
There are various regions across the world.
Then when we tell Azure to build a VM, there are various templates in place.
So for example, we are going to be making use of a template that will allow us to deploy Windows Server
2025 as an example.
This template is kind of a packaged solution.
It only has the pre-built OS in place.
With the help of this template, we should be able to get a virtual machine up and running within a
matter of minutes.
Then we mentioned a username and a password that we can use to log into the machine.
And there's also the licensing.
Now for most of these services the licensing is already baked into the cost.
But again you have to make sure that you look at the service.
The service will actually tell you very clearly in terms of licensing, whether it will be embedded
in the cost or will it be an additional cost.
These are some of the barebone aspects when it comes on to building a virtual machine.
I said, don't worry if you're new, I'll be going step by step.
I'll be explaining to you all the different concepts in building resources.
This is just a very quick starter.
Let's now move on to the next chapter, wherein within our account, we are going to build a virtual
machine based on Windows Server 2025.


=== NEW - Azure Infrastructure Project - Building with Bicep for Success ===


--- Lab - Building a Windows virtual machine ---

Right?
So here I am in my Azure account.
Let's go with building our first resource as part of this course.
And he said we are building a resource based on the service virtual machine.
We want to host a machine on the cloud.
Once we do have the machine on the cloud, we can then start deploying our software's, our workloads,
our applications.
Now to create a resource, there are various entry points.
So for example here I'm on the home screen, the home dashboard basically of my Microsoft account.
I could just click on create a resource from here itself.
If I do this, it takes me on something known as a marketplace.
In the marketplace we can see the popular Azure services.
I can see the popular marketplace products as well.
If I go back onto the home screen.
So this is one way.
Another way is to go onto the All Resources view.
This will show all of the resources within our Azure account.
Currently, I don't have any resources in place.
And then from here I can say let's create a new resource.
And again, we get that same pop up of the marketplace where we can see the services and the products.
Now I want to build a virtual machine.
So what I could do is just going back onto the context menu here.
So where have I gone?
I've gone on to this portal menu in the portal menu as well.
On the left hand side we can see that we can create a resource.
We can go on to our home dashboard.
We can go onto all services.
And here we have the favorites.
So under favorites we have the most popular views when it comes onto services itself.
So for example, if I want to look at all of my app services in my account, I can go onto the App Services
view, so on and so forth.
Here you will see something known as a virtual machines view.
So if I go on to this particular view.
So now we can see the view when it comes onto the compute the virtual machine service.
We don't have any machines in place.
Let me use this particular view to create my machine.
We can go on to create.
We have a number of options in place.
I'm going to choose the first one the virtual machine service.
Now as soon as I click this we are presented with a wizard.
This wizard will guide us through the different aspects that we can configure for our machine.
So again, remember what we are trying to achieve here.
What we're trying to do here.
We want Azure to build us a Windows Server based machine on the cloud.
Later on we should be able to log into this machine.
And then I said install our applications, install our software, so on and so forth depends upon our
workload.
On the right hand side, you will see that you're getting an estimated monthly cost when it comes on
to using the virtual machine service.
I said this is an estimated monthly cost.
Remember, based on the pay as you go model, at no point in time you're going to be charged this amount.
Right now itself, you are only charged based on how much you use.
So if you just use the services for ten minutes, you are only charged mostly for the ten minutes.
You are not charged the upfront monthly cost when it comes onto using services.
So we have a lot on this wizard.
We are just on the first tab of the basics.
We can configure the disk for the machine networking management, so on and so forth.
Every resource I told you needs to be part of a subscription.
So when you create an account, you do get a subscription in place.
I just have one, so I'll just select that one.
Next is the resource group.
Now the resource group is a logical grouping of resources.
Uh, it's free to create a resource group.
Uh, just to give some examples, let's say in a company there are multiple departments.
Every department might be using different services within an Azure account.
So what you can do is you can create a resource group for each department.
So it helps you understand okay which department is using which resources.
So if you create let's say a resource group for the logistics department, then when you create a resource
itself, you will make sure that you tag that resource against a resource group for the department itself.
Now, since I don't have a resource group in place.
I'll say let's click on Create New.
I'll just give a simple name for now.
Click on okay.
This is the name for the resource group.
Now we have to give a name for the VM itself.
Let me give a simple name by the way when it comes to naming your resources.
So in later on sections I'll give examples on how you can name your resources based on industry practices.
Industry standards.
Your company might have their own requirements on how they name resources so you can follow them accordingly.
I said in the beginning, I'll keep it very simple.
In subsequent chapters, I said, we'll try to see how we can name our resources accordingly.
All right.
Now next is the region.
So I told you that Azure has different regions across the world.
In the end, remember that for us it's you know, it's on the cloud.
It doesn't seem like our machine is hosted anywhere but in the background.
Azure has to host a VM on some sort of physical server.
On a host machine, that host machine needs to be in some sort of data center in a region.
Hence I have to choose my region accordingly.
Now what I'll do is I'll choose east.
US has my region.
Now please note that when you do initially start using Azure, you know in the first couple of months
you might have restrictions on which region that you can use for deploying your resources.
So for example, if I choose, let's say North Europe, if I go on to the last screen and I say, okay,
let's create a resource and you might get an error saying that, you know, you can't, you don't have
enough, you don't have a quota to actually go ahead and create the VM itself.
Then just go ahead and choose a different region for the deployment.
I said it just during the first couple of months when you start using the Azure Free account, there
might be some restrictions.
I'm using East US because mostly there should not be a restriction on these locations.
But again, I said if you do have any sort of errors that come up later on, you can always go back
and say, okay, let's change the region for our resources.
There's something known as availability.
We'll be covering this later on, but for now I'll just say no infrastructure redundancy required.
I'll leave these security type as it is.
There's something known now has the image.
Now, let's say that you wanted to install in the past.
How would you set up a machine with, let's say, Windows Server?
So first of all, you have to get the entire installation of Windows Server.
You would have to acquire that installation, then install it on the server, set it up, configure
it.
It takes time.
I hear there are these inbuilt templates within the template.
You already have the Pre-baked installations already installed and it's already configured also with
some basic aspects.
So when you do use these templates, you know within a matter of minutes you'll have the machine up
and running.
So process that can take hours to set up.
I said within a matter of minutes you'll get a machine with your underlying OS in the running state.
And the reason for this is these templates.
These templates already have this pre-baked image in place.
Now I want to use Windows Server 2025 as an example for these labs.
I can see Windows Server 2025, but if you can't, how can we get access to that image?
There is an option of see all images.
Let me click on this.
And within the marketplace, we should be able to search.
I can see Windows Server here, but in case if you can't see Windows Server, just search for Windows
Server here in the marketplace.
But then it should come up here itself.
Now against Windows Server, if I click on select there are different flavors and versions of Windows
Server.
I'm going to search for Windows Server 2025 specifically.
And please note that there are different versions of Windows Server 2025.
We are going to be choosing Windows Server 2025 datacenter x64 Gen two.
Sometimes users choose the wrong student, choose the wrong version.
They sometimes choose Server core x64 Gen two no.
There's also an Azure Edition.
No.
What I normally choose is Windows Server 2025 datacenter x64 Gen2, so make sure you choose this particular
image.
Next is the size of the machine.
When you configure a size for the machine, you're going to get a certain number of virtual CPUs and
you'll get some amount of memory.
Currently it has selected for me something known as standard underscore B to S.
I can click on see all sizes.
This will now give me another screen wherein it's showing me all of the available sizes that I can choose
for a VM for every size.
You can see the amount of virtual CPUs that can be allocated to the machine, the amount of Ram, the
amount of data, disk, so on and so forth.
Obviously, as you start going down when you start getting more and more in terms of virtual CPUs and
Ram.
Currently it's not available.
The cost per month is not coming up.
But obviously you can understand that the cost will increase.
The cost per month will increase as you start using higher hardware configurations for the VM itself.
Now, currently as part of the Azure Free account, you get this b1's under the Free Services eligibility.
Remember, you get 750 hours of free credit when it comes onto this B1's configuration.
As far as B1's configuration, we get one virtual CPU and one gig of Ram.
I can go ahead and select this, and the advantage of using this free services eligibility is you are
not going to be charged for the compute of the virtual machine itself.
But the problem is when it comes on to a windows server.
Yes, we will be able to create this machine, but we're going to have issues when we want to log into
the machine, which is later on, because it's not going to be enough.
That one gig of memory, this one gig of memory, is not going to be enough for the machine.
Still, let's go ahead with the creation of the machine itself, with one virtual CPU and one gig of
memory.
By the way, when we go into the series of looking at ubuntu servers, you know, the Linux distribution,
this one virtual CPU and one gig of memory should be enough.
But when it comes onto windows, we need a high configuration, a slightly higher configuration.
Okay.
Next is the username and password.
So the username and password is something that you are going to use.
So make sure that when you specify the username and password you keep it somewhere.
You keep a note of it.
Because we will need this to log into our machine.
For the password I can't give a simple password, so there are some constraints in the password.
Must have three of the following one lowercase, uppercase number, etc. so make sure that you specify
your own password that adheres to all of these constraints.
Right then I'm leaving all of the other settings as they're in terms of the licensing.
So when it comes on to Windows Server, the licensing is already baked in into the cost.
Something known as the Azure Hybrid benefit.
If you are a company that already has an existing contract with Microsoft in terms of servers, you
can make use of that contract to actually get a reduction in cost when it comes onto using the virtual
machine service.
I'm going to go on to next for the disks.
So it's saying deployment recommendations.
For now I'll just click on ignore.
It's fine.
You get an OS level disk.
This will be of size 127 gigs.
This will be assigned to your machine.
You can add additional data disks.
Don't worry, I said.
In later chapters we'll go through this concept of disk for your machine.
We are going to go through a lot of concepts.
Go on to next for networking.
This wizard is not only going to create a VM, it's going to create additional resources as well.
These resources are required by the virtual machine.
And we'll see these resources again later on.
But this wizard is going to create a number of resources for you.
It's not only going to create the virtual machine, even the disk that we saw in the previous screen,
that is a separate resource in Azure.
It's also going to create something known as a virtual network.
The virtual network is a separate resource within the network.
It creates something known as a subnet We're going to cover these aspects in the networking section.
And we need a public IP address.
Currently it's not giving an option.
So I'll just click on Create New.
To say please create a new public IP address.
I'll click on okay.
You know with the help of the public IP address, we can communicate from the internet onto the machine
itself.
And this is required because from my laptop I need to connect from the internet.
You know why the internet and connect onto the machine itself.
So this is required.
Only the other aspects has there.
Go onto next for management.
So I'm not going to touch anything.
There are a lot of features that you can enable and these features keep on changing.
The new features being added on a regular basis for Azure based services.
We can go on to the final review and create screen where in we can review all of our settings.
And then finally we can hit on create to create the machine itself.
This does a final validation.
Once the validation has passed, we should be able to click on the create button.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
What this is going to do is this is now going to send a request.
You can see you're getting a notification.
It's initializing the deployment.
What it'll do is it'll create that resource group.
And then it's going to tell something known as the Azure Resource Manager.
Please go ahead and deploy a machine based on my specifications.
That is Windows Server 2025.
And it should start the deployment accordingly.
And within a minute or so you'll get a notification that the deployment is complete.
What we'll do is let's mark an end to this extensive chapter wherein we are building a machine based
on Windows Server.
Let's move on to the next chapter once the deployment is complete.


=== Manage Azure identities and governance ===


--- Lab - Connecting to the Virtual Machine ---

Radar deployment is complete.
It just took less than a minute for everything.
Every action that you perform in Azure, you'll get actually get a notification.
So here we've got the notification that the deployment has succeeded.
There is a button that's telling us that we can go on to the resource itself.
If you expand the deployment details here, you will see that a number of resources got deployed as
part of our action of deploying the virtual machine itself.
Let me click on this button to go onto the resource.
It is now opening up a view of the details of our virtual machine.
We have the name of our machine.
It's based on Windows Server 2025 data center.
Currently, the size of the machine is standard b1's, where we get one virtual CPU and one gig of memory.
It's part of our resource group.
It's running in the East US location.
It has a public IP address that has been already configured by Azure.
We should be able to now connect to the machine using this public IP address.
And we have various aspects the properties of the machine itself.
On the left hand side we have a number of features available for the machine.
These features differ depending upon the service that you're using.
For example we are using the VM service.
So as part of the service we will get whatever features are adequate for that service itself.
Now before we can actually connect or to the machine itself, just a quick thing.
I'm going to go on to actually opening up another tab.
What I can do is I can go on to the portal menu for the All Resources view.
I'll right click on my mouse and open the link in a new tab.
I want you all to get a view now of the resources that are part of your account.
You will see that we not only have the VM, so the VM here in this particular view it's based on the
virtual machine service is part of my resource group.
It's in the East US location and it's part of my Azure subscription.
Apart from that we get the entire virtual network itself.
We get the public IP address.
You can see each resource is based on its own type, its own service.
We have something known as a network security group.
We have the network interface and we have the disk.
This is the OS level disk, separate resources that are all required.
If you want to have a view of how this looks like.
So what I do is for my videos, I make sure that I create these diagrams.
Just to give you a visual representation.
I create a PDF version of these diagrams and I share them accordingly.
With students.
It's impossible for me to give access to this particular link, because there's an additional cost for
giving access.
And for us, what I recommend to students is that you yourselves go ahead and start building.
You can use a scratchpad, you can use notepad.
You can use you can use any tool that you want or even on paper.
Just go ahead and start drawing these diagrams just to get a better understanding of the infrastructure.
How do you build the infrastructure of your Azure based services?
So we have our subscription.
So this is located within our Azure account.
Please note that a company can have multiple subscriptions in place not quite as to have one.
Within the subscription.
We have a resource group.
Let's go ahead and just change this, just to make sure that we are with conjunction with what we've
defined.
So for our resource group it was app GRP right.
So let me name it here.
Now within the resource group we have all of our resources.
The first thing is the virtual network.
Let's go on to Azure just to make sure that we have the correct name.
So the name of our network is VNet East US.
I just go on to it quickly just to confirm.
Now this is the address space 172.16.0.0 slash 16.
Let me change this accordingly here.
So as we are moving along just for now.
I'll make changes accordingly so that we are in line.
And I said in the chapter of networking, I'm going to explain all of these concepts of a virtual network.
Within the network we have the subnets.
I go on to the subnets.
So we have a subnet of ZDNet East US one.
This is the address space.
Let me change it accordingly here.
Then we have the virtual machine itself.
What is the private IP address.
Each machine gets a private IP address if I go on to the machine itself.
So what I'm doing right now is within this Azure portal view, I'm navigating onto the different resources
on the left hand side as I hit each and every resource on the right hand side, I'm getting what is
the view of the resource itself?
I told you that each view will differ.
Some of the things will be the same, but depending upon the service.
So for example, if I choose the VNet, obviously I'll get details of features of the virtual network
itself.
Now that I'm on the VM, I'm getting the details of the VM itself.
What is the private IP address of this machine?
So if I scroll down this is the private IP address 172.16.0.4.
Let me change this accordingly.
So I'm just doing this changes for this chapter itself.
So if you are using your own tool make sure that I said you create these diagrams on your own.
It's good for practice.
In the subsequent chapters, I'll make sure all the diagrams are updated based on our specification
based on our deployment.
Just to let you all know, I'm going to go step by step, making you all familiar with the different
resources that are part of the virtual machine service.
So we have our network interface.
Then we have our network security group, and then we have the public IP address.
What is the public IP address assigned on to our machine?
So I need to go on to the overview of the machine itself.
And this is the public IP address.
So this is now kind of a brief infrastructure diagram of our deployment a very basic one.
I now want to connect from my laptop, which will have its own IP address via my Wi-Fi router across
the internet or to the public IP address.
So when you connect to the machine, we are going to be connecting via the public IP address of the
machine itself.
Let's try this out.
How do we connect?
Let me just hide this.
So at any point in time we can hide the other context menus.
There is a connect button.
So I'm on the web VM zero one page.
There is a connect button.
I'll click on connect here.
It It'll tell us different ways in which we can connect onto our machine.
I'm going to click on download the RDP file.
RDP stands for Remote Desktop Protocol.
Would you like to keep it?
Anyway?
I'll click on keep and then I'll open up the file.
This is a separate utility that you can use to remotely connect.
You know this is a utility that you can use to connect to your remote machines.
So we want to connect to our remote Windows server I'll click on the connect button.
It's asking me for the passwords.
Remember this is the username and the password that we had mentioned for our machine during the configuration.
Click on yes to connect.
And by the way here you will see other ways that you can actually connect onto the machine.
So you can use something known as the Azure Bastion service, the serial console, so on and so forth.
And now what we are seeing is, you know, we're getting kind of a session now onto the machine itself.
I'm actually getting an error.
It's saying some sort of protocol error.
The remote session will be disconnected.
Mostly the problem that we're having here is the hardware configuration.
I told you, the hardware configuration is not enough for the Windows Server machine.
Because of just having one gig of memory in place, it's not enough.
If we don't get this error, you might get another error later on.
But in my experience, at whatever point in time you will get some sort of error when you try to work
with the machine itself.
So for now, let's mark an end onto this chapter.
We still haven't connected or been able to connect onto our machine.
Let's move on to the next chapter and see how we can resize our machine.
This can be done at any point in time and then be able to successfully connect onto the machine itself.


=== Monitor and back up Azure resources ===


--- Lab - Resizing the Virtual Machine ---

Now in the prior chapter, we were kind of stuck.
We tried to use something known as a remote desktop utility, so we could download that remote desktop
utility from the connect page of the machine.
So you can see that we are on the connect page of the VM itself.
We were connecting on to the public IP address of the machine, but we were not able to successfully
complete the connection process because of an error.
And I told you that this error is most probably because of the size of the machine.
It's not capable enough to actually handle the load of having a windows server in place.
At any point in time, we can change the size of the machine.
So if we go on to the availability and scale section, so different sections when it comes on to the
machine itself, I want to go on to the size I said.
At any point in time we can change the size of the machine.
I want to go for the size of B to S, which gives me two virtual CPUs and four gigs of memory.
I'll click on the resize button.
I'll click on resize accordingly.
So you've seen first of all, how simple it is to go and resize a machine.
C the virtual machine is like any other physical server, right?
You need CPUs to power the compute.
You need Ram, right?
The inbuilt memory that is the Ram that's given here.
You need storage.
Even your laptop.
Just take the simple use case of your laptop.
Your laptop has a CPU.
It has a GPU for graphics.
It has underlying Ram.
Could be eight gigs.
It could be 16 gigs.
It has storage.
If you have a windows device, your storage will be in the form of a C drive.
You might have extra storage in the form of a D drive, so on and so forth.
All of these similar aspects are there for the VM as well.
So for the VM we are now allocating.
So what it's doing is it's taking that allocation from the underlying physical host.
The VM is on a physical host machine.
Now the VM is taking more resources on the physical host.
It's taking two virtual CPUs and four gigs of Ram.
Now obviously here I'm going away from the free services eligibility.
And there will be now a small cost linked onto running this machine.
I told you that if you use your resources smartly, you don't keep them running for a long duration
of time.
You don't get that much of a cost.
It's very, very minimal in terms of using, you know, in terms of costing for using resources.
Okay.
Now if I go back onto the overview, just to confirm, I can still see the standard underscore.
Sorry.
but it's saying the resize is done.
Let's go ahead and click on refresh.
Okay, now I can see it's standard.
It just takes some time.
But then we should be able to see it.
If you want we can refresh the entire page.
Right now I can see it's reflecting properly.
Okay I'm going to go on to my downloads folder.
This is where.
So remember we try to use the remote Desktop utility.
You could actually download a file onto your downloads folder.
If I can double click on this file we can have the connection dialog box.
So this is the utility that allows us to connect onto the remote machine.
Remember we are connecting onto the public IP address of the machine.
I'll click on connect.
Again it's asking me for my password.
Click on yes.
And now what you're going to see is we are getting now a session onto our Windows Server.
And this is the best thing about cloud platforms.
We don't have to invest a lot of money just to get physical infrastructure and hardware in place within
a matter of minutes.
We now have a server running on the cloud, and on this server we should be able to install our workloads,
etc..
Now note that for me it could take some time.
I'll just click on accept.
Sometimes it takes time to get the screen refreshed.
Getting wider.
The camera shut down.
I'll just click on cancel.
This was the previous time when we tried to log into the machine.
It depends upon your location.
Now for me, East us is further away.
That's why there will be some latency.
It's going to take some time for my request.
And the request, the response to come back right for the screen to get refreshed.
It takes some time when I go through the concept of Azure regions.
I'll explain to you, you know, how do you decide on a region?
So one way is to choose a region that's closest to you.
If you want to get a better response time, you can choose a region closer to you.
I could have chosen another region for our demos, which is closer to me.
I'll get a better response time.
Is it for students who are trying out with a brand new Azure account?
They may not have that liberty of choosing any region.
So just to be on the safe side, I've chosen East us.
It's fine in the end.
Now you can see the screen of Windows Server.
So I said, now you have a full fledged server running on the cloud.
You don't have to build anything.
You don't have to buy anything.
Nothing but just a few, you know, a simple wizard with a few configuration steps.
We now have a windows server running on the cloud.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter.


=== Practice Section ===


--- Connecting to the machine from macOS ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use Remote Desktop to connect onto the windows
based machine that we have in Azure from a mac OS device.
Here I am in Mac Studio.
I want to connect onto the machine that we have running within Azure or Windows based server.
Now for this, I'm going to go on to the App Store first on my machine and install the windows app.
This will be required to remote Desktop or the Windows Server based machine.
Now once I have the windows app installed, I'll click on the open button.
Currently, we don't have any devices in place.
I'll go onto my app VM Virtual Machine and on my Mac OS device.
Let me click on connect.
I'll download the audio file.
I'll click on the audio file.
Now it's asking me to give the password for the Windows Server based machine.
So it's trying to configure a remote connection onto the machine itself.
And now I'm connected onto the Windows Server machine.
So very simple to go ahead and connect onto the Windows Server machine from a mac OS device.
And then as always you can go ahead and perform operations on the Windows Server machine itself.

--- Troubleshooting connectivity ---

In this chapter.
I just want to give a quick note when it comes to troubleshooting the remote desktop connections.
So let's say you are not able to connect onto the VM.
Go through this Microsoft documentation page which has the different steps when it comes onto troubleshooting
your connections onto Azure VMs.
By the way, for any sort of issues, just refer to the Microsoft documentation.
It's rich in information onto not only using the services, it has a lot of reference materials.
It also has a lot of FAQs, troubleshooting everything that you need to know about a particular service.
Some of the issues that students can come across is, first and foremost, make sure that you have the
adequate size for the VM.
That's one thing.
Make sure that you've chosen the right VM image.
Sometimes students choose the wrong VM image and they're saying that okay, we are logging on to the
machine, but I can't see the graphical user interface.
Well, this only comes with certain editions of Windows Server.
For example, if you use a core edition, you're not going to get that screen.
Uh, another common thing is the username and password.
Obviously, make sure that you're using the correct username and password.
Another aspect can be that if you're working from, let's say, a company laptop, obviously the company
would have, you know, it's always good.
They have their own security restrictions wherein they might block connections onto external services.
So you need to talk to a company administrators to make sure that you understand what are the procedures,
to make sure that you can actually connect onto a machine from a company laptop.
So there are these different restrictions in place, but that's, you know, that's part of the entire
security of a company environment.
This is just a page that you can actually go through when it comes to troubleshooting your remote desktop
connections.
If you're working from a personal laptop, if you have a firewall in place that could be blocking connections,
you have an antivirus that could be blocking connections.
So you just need to keep a note of all of this.
This is one thing.
Another thing is.
When it comes on to creating the VM, I told you there are restrictions in place when it comes onto
your Azure account, and for the first 30 days, you may not be able to use all of the features of all
of the services, and even when it comes on to regions, you might have restrictions, you know, what
you can do is just to understand these restrictions, you can actually go on to your subscriptions.
I'll go on to the subscription service, go on to your subscription itself.
I'll just hide this here.
Under the settings, there's something known as usage and quotas.
You will now see what is your usage and also what quota do you have when it comes on to using the various
services.
You can also filter based on the region.
So for example, if I search for East US, I've deployed my VM in East US.
So in terms of the BS family of virtual CPUs, I can see that I have a quota of ten.
So I can have ten virtual CPUs used as part of my account.
Currently I've used two.
So remember for our Windows server at two virtual CPUs I've used up two.
But I can see that I have the usage of ten.
If you are brand new in your Azure account, this might be even less.
You might have only four.
I said it depends upon at which phase you are in your Azure account.
For me, I'm on the pay as you go model, so that's why it has increased in terms of the limit.
I have ten, but I can see that I can create this in the East US region.
Let's say that you are trying to create this in another region as let's say North Europe.
Just as an example, you can actually go onto North Europe and see whether you have that quota in place.
If you don't, then you know that you have to choose another region, right?
Just some quick tips on working with the services.
You know, if you are new to Azure these are some quick tips.
But as you keep on using the services, as you keep on using Azure as a platform, you'll get more and
more familiar with these different options.

--- Lab - Setting up a Web server on the virtual machine ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give an example of installing a workload on a server.
Right.
So now it's great that you have a server in place.
So normally your companies will do is they will copy the application.
They would run the application, they would install a software.
Right.
They would install some sort of workload.
You could have a web server running for serving web applications.
You could have a database server for running databases, so on and so forth.
I want to give a very simple example of hosting a web server on a windows server.
If you want to host a web application on the Windows Server, you would need some sort of web utility,
some sort of web services running on the machine itself.
On Windows Server there is something known as you can install different roles.
Here I am on the server manager dashboard.
If you don't get the dashboard, just go on to the windows menu.
Click on Server Manager On the Server Manager dashboard, I can click on Add Roles and Features.
This will give me another wizard that will prompt me to install the different roles that are available
on a windows server.
I'll click on next.
I'll select my VM.
Click on next.
And now this is nothing to do with Azure.
This is something that's specific onto Windows Server.
Azure is just being used as a medium now for hosting your infrastructure for hosting your server.
What you do with the server is up to you.
Now your host data.
You are now responsible for the server.
We are using the mechanics of Windows Server now to install a web server role.
So you know in this video there's something known as a web server.
So when I click this it's going to install something known as Internet Information Services.
This has been a utility on Windows Server for a long duration of time that can be used for hosting web
applications.
It's a web server, basically.
Click on Add Features.
Click on next.
I'm not changing anything.
Whatever are the defaults.
And then I'll click on install.
We are using the inbuilt features of Windows Server to install something known as Internet Information
Services.
When you install this Internet Information Services, I told you you'll get something known as a web
server.
And by default we should be able to send simple HTTP requests on port 80 for the machine.
First of all, let's wait for the installation to complete this.
Just take a moment or two when I'm back.
The installation of Internet Information Services is complete.
On the machine.
On the virtual machine.
I'll click on close.
Now, I said, what we can do is we can initiate a request.
If I go on to my virtual machines, go on to the machine itself.
So if you navigate away, you can always go ahead onto the Virtual Machines view and go to the VM itself.
I said what we can do now is we can take the public IP address.
This is like an entry point from the internet or the VM itself.
I can go on to a new tab type in HTTP.
And what is the public IP address of the machine.
You're saying continue on to the site.
But it's not going to show you any sort of response from the web server.
The ID in this case, what we should be getting is we should be getting kind of a default home page
that is set up by Internet Information Services, but it's giving us an error message saying that it
can't reach this page.
In order for us to now reach the web server that is running on our Windows Server machine, we have
to just implement a certain step.
I have to go on to.
So we have to go on to the Azure VM for the web VM machine.
I need to go on to the network settings.
And under Network settings I need to add something known as an inbound port rule.
There is something that we're going to cover later on.
This is known as a network security group.
This is kind of a lightweight filter, a lightweight firewall that is used to filter the incoming and
outgoing request from the VM itself.
So by default, the request from my laptop is not reaching the web server.
It's being blocked by this network security group.
I said we'll cover this later on in a lot of details, but for now I'm going to say let's create an
inbound port rule.
It's a security rule.
I'll leave all the options as they are.
It's just in terms of the service, I'm going to choose the HTTP service.
We are making a call using HTTP protocol in our browser.
This protocol listens on port 80.
So I'll leave it as it is.
This is an allow request.
I'll just give a name for the rule and click on add.
We are just adding a rule saying that please allow requests from anywhere on port 80 of the VM of the
virtual machine.
Once you do, this just takes a moment or two.
If I refresh this page, we are now getting the home page of Internet Information Services.
So what have we done?
We have now installed a web server.
It's just an example of having now a workload running on the virtual machine itself.

--- Understanding Azure regions ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to briefly go through Azure regions.
When you decide to deploy a resource based on a service, one of the important decisions that you need
to make is what is the region to host your resource.
There are certain services that are available at the global level where you don't need to choose a region.
But for most services, you need to decide a region.
So what is an Azure region?
So this is a set of one or more data centers in a specific geographic location.
Here the data centers are connected by high capacity, low latency networks.
When you deploy resources onto Azure, you deploy them onto a region.
Remember for us, when we deploy a VM, I told you in the end it would need to be on some sort of physical
server in a data center.
Just giving an example screenshot here.
So when you deploy the VM.
The machine is deployed to an underlying physical host in Azure Data Center.
If you look at the manage disk, the OS level disk, these are stored on Azure storage clusters.
If we look at your virtual network, this is again part of some sort of physical networking system.
There are decisions that impact the region of choice.
So for example first is the latency and user experience.
So is it for me.
East US is not the ideal location in terms of latency and user experience because it's further away
from me.
If you have users who are going to use an application hosted on a VM, then choose a region that's closest
to your users.
See, when you make a request to an application on a VM, right, the request still needs to go to the
data center in that region which is hosting the VM itself.
And the response needs to come back.
Hence there is a latency.
It takes time.
So normally companies would decide to host the virtual machine in a region that's closest to them.
That's one aspect of choosing a region.
Another aspect is compliance.
Maybe due to legal and security implications, you might need to host your data within a particular
region.
If you have a VM that's hosting an application, and an application is storing application data on the
VM itself, you might need to ensure that the data is due to, again, certain security implications.
It has to be in a particular region.
Another one is features and pricing.
Now if you look at the virtual machine service.
So this is the basic service in Azure.
It is available in all regions.
And in terms of all of its features also it's available in all regions.
But it's not the case that each and every service is available in each and every region.
So if you're using a service you first have to go on to the Microsoft documentation to make sure that
that service is available, or its features are available in a particular region.
So even if you do decide that you want to host your resource based on a service in a particular region,
you still have to make sure that the service is available in the region itself.
So this is important.
Another thing is the pricing.
So the pricing of a service depends on region to region.
The price per r in our case let's say for an Azure VM in East US, let's say I'm my VM is in East US.
The price per R for the VM in East US will be different from the price per R of the VM in North Europe.
A company might decide to choose a region wherein the cost is minimal.
So even the pricing also is a factor in terms of deciding on a region.
If you want to just have a quick look at the global infrastructure.
Into the global experience can actually go on to data centers.
Docs.microsoft.com.
Here you will see all of the different regions across the world.
So we have East, us, East US two.
You can choose on your view mode.
If you look at the legend you can see, okay, we have regions across the world.
We have networking across the world.
You can also take a virtual Microsoft Data Center tour.
So if you want we can enter the lobby.
It's giving kind of a virtual tour of the entire Microsoft Data center.
Remember we have data centers across the world.
If you want, you can enter the lobby or you can go on to the operations room to see how it looks like.
You can explore the operations room.
So you're getting kind of a virtual tour of the operations room itself.
There's a lot that actually goes into maintaining these different data centers.
So in this chapter briefly want to go through the region concept when it comes onto Azure.

--- Costing for Azure resources ---

Now in this chapter, I want to go through the costing aspect when it comes on to Azure based resources.
This is very important for any company.
Every company would need to make sure they want to make sure that they make the best use of Azure in
terms of their services, but at the same time, they want to also keep a track on the costing aspect.
If you don't keep track, you know at the end you're going to get a humongous bill and it's going to
deter you from actually using cloud based services.
You should use cloud based services.
They are available for you, but you need to also make sure that you track and manage your costs accordingly.
The first most important thing is what I do is, is to go into the Microsoft documentation page and
first of all, understand the pricing for each and every service.
Now, since we are just starting out, I want to explain to you all one first basic concept.
See, what we have currently as part of Azure account is we have a virtual machine?
But in addition to the VM, we also have other resources in place as well.
Remember we have our VM.
We have the virtual network.
We have the OS level disk.
We have the public IP address, we have the network security group.
And all of these are separate resources.
The compute cost for the VM is separate.
So this is billed while the VM is in the running state.
And normally you are built on a per minute basis.
So if you just use the machine for five minutes you only charge for five minutes.
That's it.
To save on compute cost you can actually go ahead and deallocate.
I'll show this later on.
You can deallocate the virtual machine.
So the first important aspect is each and every resource will be billed separately.
So if you look at your manage disk this has a separate billing mechanism.
So even if you stop the VM, you deallocate the VM to save on compute cost, you will still be charged
for the underlying disk.
So each resource is billed separately when it comes on.
To manage disks, you are charged based on the provisioned size for the public IP address.
There is a separate charge.
Please know that in terms of our demos, we are using kind of not that many disks or that many public
IP addresses, so there won't be that much of an additional cost.
There are some resources that are free of charge.
So for example, there is no charge for the network security group and there is no charge for the virtual
networks and subnets.
So you go on to the pricing page for each service.
So for example, here I am on the pricing page for a virtual network.
Here it's clearly saying that the virtual network in Azure is free of charge.
No problem there.
What is there in terms of pricing is when you enable a feature known as virtual network peering, there
is some charge.
So if you scroll down so you'll see all of the charges when it comes down to using some other features
in virtual networks.
Apart from that there is also a bandwidth a data transfer charge.
Any inbound data that's coming in onto Azure is free of charge.
So data is coming in.
So let's say you're copying something from your machine onto the virtual machine so that inbound data
transfer should be free of charge.
Any outbound data transfer data that's coming out of the VM onto the internet is charged per gig.
So you have to be well aware that there are different aspects when it comes onto charging for a cloud
platform.
Now, quickly, I want to showcase how you can create something known as a budget alert in Azure.
So budget alerts are kind of notifications from something known as Azure Cost Management.
You know you can make them fire whenever your spend or your usage hits a certain threshold.
So for example, you might set out a monthly budget and you would tell, you know, if you have resources
running as part of your platform, you can tell that budget feature to send you an alert if, let's
say the usage is going to cross a particular threshold as part of Azure subscription.
You can search for cost management.
Under cost Course management on the monitoring.
You have something known as budgets here.
I only have a monthly budget setup.
You can see as part of this monthly budget I have set a budget amount of 30 USD.
My current spend is around 11 USD.
You can see the percentage in terms of progress.
You can add your own budget.
You can give a budget name just giving a simple example.
You can decide, okay, do you want to have the budget on a monthly basis, a quarterly basis or an
annual basis?
You can decide, okay, my budget per month is 10 USD.
You will see the cost over time.
You can click on next and then you can set an alert.
There are different alert conditions.
You can decide to trigger an alert if the actual cost is coming to 70% of your budget, so that's around
7 USD.
So you can do this with either the actual or the forecasted.
Now in terms of forecasted, Azure does need some you know, it takes some time for Azure to forecast
your costs.
For now, I would um, recommend you to choose actuals.
If your actual cost is coming to 7 USD, you can receive an alert accordingly.
So you can give your email and then you can go ahead and create the budget alert accordingly.
This is a very good thing.
Make sure that you define the budget alert because sometimes if you leave resources by mistake running
in Azure, if they are, you know, they go up to a certain cost limit, then you will get notified
accordingly.
And then you can go onto Azure and delete your resources accordingly.
So I do recommend you go ahead and create the budget alert accordingly.
Alright, so in this chapter I want to go through kind of the basic costing aspect when it comes to
Azure services.

--- Virtual Machine sizes ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Virtual Machine series.
When we chose our virtual machine size, our virtual machine size was actually based on a particular
virtual machine series.
So ours was standard B2S.
This comes under the BS series of machines.
Each series of machines actually has different underlying physical hardware.
Again, always remember this core concept.
When you deploy a VM, the VM is deployed on a physical host machine in an Azure data center.
So this is a physical server.
Now obviously uh Azure has different types of physical servers for different sort of computing needs.
For the B series of series of machines they provide a low cost option for workloads, you know, that
run to low and moderate baseline CPU utilization.
So if you have any dev environments or test environments, it's good to have these machines when you
start having workloads in your production Base environments.
So for example, you have web servers that are hosting your production based web workloads.
At that point in time, you should decide on a different series of machines.
So for example, you have the D series general purpose compute machines.
Here they provide a good combination of virtual CPUs, memory and storage.
So this is good for your production workloads.
There are other different series of machines.
For example you have one that's good for in-memory applications.
So let's say you have databases or you have other services that rely on good in-memory representation.
You can make use of the E series set of virtual machines.
Again, remember that it all depends on the underlying physical infrastructure.
If you look at the E series base machines, you will see that these are based on the custom Intel Xeon
machines.
Hence, I said depending upon the capabilities of the underlying physical server, those same capabilities
are made available to your virtual machines.
So you can actually go through this documentation page just to give this a quick note on the Virtual
Machine series.

--- Lab - Building a Linux Virtual Machine ---

Now in this chapter, we're going to go ahead and build another machine as part of our infrastructure.
This VM will be based now on a Linux distribution.
So I just want to showcase the different distributions, the different flavors that are available when
it comes on to underlying operating systems.
We looked at windows.
Now we look at Linux based distribution.
I'm going to be using Ubuntu Server as an example here.
I'm going to deploy this VM onto the same subnet or to the same virtual network.
When we go through the section of virtual networking at that point in time, I will explain more about
virtual networks.
I'll explain more about subnets.
They will deploy our machines across different subnets and even different virtual networks as well.
Here I just want to showcase how I'm trying to keep it simple.
Let's deploy a machine onto our existing infrastructure.
And by the way, I am keeping my Windows Server in place even though we're not using it at this point
in time.
I want to showcase that we can have servers running side by side within the same virtual network.
So in Azure, what I could do is I could again go on to virtual machines.
Now my current VM, my current network, everything is in the East US location.
Now if I need to deploy another machine onto the same network, I have to ensure that I deploy my machine
onto east US.
So we have to target the same location now as our virtual network location.
I'll choose to create a new VM.
Again we have the same wizard, the same screen.
in the resource group, I will choose my existing one.
So we are logically grouping all of our resources in the same resource group.
I'll give a simple machine name.
I will target the same east US location because my virtual network is in the same location.
Again, I don't want any infrastructure redundancy.
We'll cover this later on, this time in the image.
I will choose Ubuntu Server 24.04 LTS x64 Gen two.
If you don't see this, go on to the see all images.
Search for Ubuntu Server 24.04 and select it accordingly.
Now, in terms of the size, I will leave it as standard underscore B-1s.
This should be good enough for us for our demos for Linux has a lightweight distribution.
You know, we don't have that graphical user interface.
So this configuration of one virtual CPU should be fine.
But remember when you start hosting workloads, when you want to install something at that point in
time, you will definitely need a higher configuration to support whatever workload you want to host
on the VM itself.
Now, in terms of the authentication type, just to start simple, for now, I'm going to select password
and mention my own username and password that I'm going to use for logging onto the machine.
Again remember we need to keep this.
You need to note it down because we have to use this later on to log onto the machine itself.
I'll leave everything as it is.
Let me go on to the disk.
I'll again click on ignore.
This time.
Again we get an OS level disk.
The size is 30 gigs.
So again, depending upon the underlying OS, you're getting the size of the OS disk accordingly.
I'll go on to next for networking.
Now here what it's doing is that the wizard is saying, let's create a new network for us for this VM.
But I don't want to do that because I already have a network in the East US location.
I'll click on Edit Virtual Network.
Now here in the dropdown I should be able to see my existing virtual network.
So I'll select this.
I'll select my existing subnet I don't want to create a new subnet.
I'm trying to keep it simple.
The only thing that we will definitely create is a new public IP address.
So we want now a new public IP address for this machine so we can connect onto the machine itself.
I'll click on next and everything remains the same.
I'll go on to review and create.
Now after the validation is complete I'll click on create.
Now in case if it asks you to give a phone number, you can give your phone number accordingly.
This is a requirement when it comes on to building the machine based on Ubuntu Server.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter.
Let's move on to the next.
Let's come back once our deployment is complete.

--- Lab - Connecting to the Linux machine ---

Come back.
It just took again less than a minute to have my Linux base machine in place.
Again, it gave me a link.
You can see the deployment details, but it's giving me a link to go on to the resource.
And now we have a view of web VM.
Zero two web VM zero two is based on ubuntu.
It's based on this particular size of standard B-1s.
It has its own public IP address.
So Azure will allocate its set of public IP addresses onto your machines.
It's in east US.
It's in the running state.
It's part of our resource group.
So let me go ahead and update our diagram.
First let me put in what is the public IP address.
So now within our infrastructure we want to be able to actually connect to our machine in this particular
chapter.
But before that let me go ahead and put in the different details.
So first is the public IP address, then we'll also need the private IP address.
So we can scroll down.
And we should be able to see the private IP address.
It's just the IP address that has been allocated from the address range of the subnet.
That's it.
So this is 172.16.0.5.
So we'll go through IP addressing also a little bit later on.
Now we want to connect onto our Linux based machine.
If I click on the connect button.
Or by the way before we actually do this, let's go on to all resources in a new tab just to get a view
of the resources.
So now I can see that I have web VM zero two.
VM zero two has its own public IP address, which is a separate resource.
It has its own network security group.
It has its own network interface and it has its own OS level disk.
All of these are now separate resources under the resource group.
Now, when it comes on to connecting onto a Linux based machine, it's going to be a little bit different.
Here we have to use Secure Shell.
When you look at Ubuntu Server it's a bit different from Windows Server.
It does not come with a graphical user interface.
So there's no graphical desktop.
It's just a command line shell.
You can connect via secure shell.
So if you look at just for those who are not familiar with connections.
So when you have a windows based machine, you remote desktop using the Remote Desktop Protocol on the
windows machines.
There's a service that listens on port 3389 for your remote desktop connections.
When it comes on to your Linux based machines, you secure shell to connect your.
The port number is 22.
Just to make sure, because this is important from an exam perspective for you to understand the connectivity.
Just for those who are not familiar, obviously, if you're a system admin, this is all very clear
to you in terms of connecting to machines.
It's just the basics again.
But I said, now we need to connect.
Now I am on a windows laptop, Windows 11.
What I'm going to simply do is from a windows I can just open up command prompt on my machine.
So here I am in command prompt.
I can just type in ssh.
What is the username for my machine at the rate and the public IP address?
I can copy the public IP address of web VM zero two.
Right right click on my mouse to paste it in here on enter.
Are you sure you want to connect?
I'll type in.
Yes.
I'll put in my password and I should be connected.
So now we are connected from our machine onto the ubuntu server.
The experience is different because on a windows server you have a graphical user interface.
Here this is a command line shell.
But then we can start executing commands.
We can now start working with our ubuntu server.
This is one of the most simplest way to connect onto the machine if you cannot connect here.
There is also a way that you can connect via the Azure portal itself.
You know what you can do is for this machine you can scroll down under help.
There is a serial console even.
Why this console?
You can actually log on to the machine and you can start executing your text based commands.
So this works here as well.
As if you can't connect using SSH on your local machine, you can always connect here.
So it's asking for the username and the password.
I'll mention those details accordingly.
And even here again we are connected.
So you know you're connected when you can see the username at the rate.
It's a prompt now.
And the web server name.
Right.
So let's mark it in onto this chapter wherein we have connected on to our Linux based VM.

--- Connecting to Linux from macOS ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can connect onto our Linux based machine from a mac
OS device.
So you're in Mac Studio and I've logged on to the Azure portal.
I have my web VM machine in place.
We will need to connect using the public IP address of the machine on my Mac client.
I'm going to open up the utilities and within utilities I'll open up the terminal.
From the terminal let's use SSH to secure shell order machines or Linux admin at the rate.
What is the public IP address of the machine?
And we should be able to connect using the username and the password.
And we are connected onto our Linux machine.
So similarly to using SSH on a windows based device on a windows based client to connect onto the Linux
based machine, we can also use SSH to connect from a mac device as well.

--- Lab - Deploying a web server on the Linux virtual machine ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, similar to the concept with Windows Server, wherein I'd shown you an example of hosting a web
server on the machine, even here on the ubuntu server, I want to showcase how we can host or turn
it into a web server just by installing a very simple package.
So this is a popular package or a popular web server known as nginx.
So we can go ahead and install this.
We can just install the package via the server commands and have the web server running within no time.
So let's go ahead and do that shall we?
Now you can execute these commands from here itself from the Secure Shell in command prompt.
Or you could also execute.
Or you could also go and execute these commands from the serial console in Azure.
Either way we'll do.
First and foremost I'm going to execute the commands to update the package index.
And by the way, when it comes on to the exam you're not going to be asked about these commands.
These are all specific to the OS itself.
We need to understand what in general, what does it mean to host workloads?
Because there will be examples on having workloads on systems in exam.
Hence, we need to be aware of all of this.
Now I will issue the command to install the nginx package.
Do you want to continue?
Yes.
And just like that we are installing nginx package.
Then we'll have a web server running again listening to HTTP requests on port 80.
Now, would we able to again reach the web server by default?
You know, the answer is no.
Why?
Because this machine has its own network security group.
Hence, we will need to go onto that network security group and modify these settings accordingly.
So for web VM Bmp02 I can go on to the network settings and as always, I will need to add an inbound
port rule in the inbound port rule again the same.
The service is HDP.
I'll give a name of HDP and click on add.
This will allow our request to come on to the machine itself.
Once done again, I can take the public IP address.
We can copy it from anywhere.
So it's available in network settings.
It's available in the overview.
It's the same public IP address.
Then going on to another tab I can put in HDP and the public IP address and ID I should get the home
page of nginx.
So even nginx serves a simple page to you that lets you know that yes, you are able to connect onto
the web server itself, right?
So in this chapter I want to showcase how you can have a web server running on your Linux based machine.

--- Lab - Deploying a Linux machine - SSH keys ---

Right now.
In this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how you can create a Linux based VM, but this time just
using the keys.
The private key concept.
Instead of using password for logging in as the administrator.
It's a very simple process.
Let me go on to VMs and create a new VM quickly.
We already quite well aware now in terms of creation of a virtual machine.
I don't have a resource group, so let me quickly create a new resource group.
Just give a name for the machine in east US.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
I'll select Ubuntu Server.
Scroll down for the size as standard.
Underscore B-1s.
This time I will choose a secure shell public key.
We can put in our own username here.
The wizard is actually going to create something known as a new key pair.
This consists of a public key and a private key.
You'll get access to the private key.
The public key will be stored on the Azure VM.
You can give a name for the key pair.
I'll leave it as it is and nothing else.
I'll go on to the disk.
Auto networking.
It will create a new virtual network.
I do need a public IP address, so I'll say to create a new one.
Let me go directly onto the last screen of review and create.
The only difference is the way that we're going to log onto the machine.
So prior we were using the username and the password.
Now I want to make use of secure shell keys.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
It then gives me an option to download the private key.
And then go ahead and create the resource.
Let me go ahead and download the private key onto my local machine.
Please make sure that you keep the private key in a secure location.
This will then be used to log on to the machine itself.
Now, while this is being done, what I've done is for the private key.
I've copied it from the downloads folder onto one of my other local folders in command prompt.
Let me go onto that folder.
So I've just copied the key here.
What we will need to do is on a windows based machine, we'll just have to run some commands to reduce
the permissions on this file.
Otherwise we will not be able to connect.
I'll just right click and make sure to just change the name here.
So if you are following along make sure to execute these two commands.
Once the deployment of the machine is complete, I'll go on to the resource itself.
In order to connect onto the machine, let me copy the public IP address in command prompt where I have
my key in place.
Let's do a secure shell Linux admin.
Add the rate the public IP address.
Now I need to mention the usage of my key file.
So I can mention the use of my key file.
Hit on enter.
And now I am connected onto the VM itself.
So in this chapter briefly we want to go through how you can create the key pair and use the private
key to log onto your machine.
Now that we're done, I'll go ahead and delete my resources accordingly.

--- Azure Virtual Machine - Disks ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to kind of give an introduction and a focus on Azure.
Manage this when it comes onto our VMs.
By default they get an OS level disk.
Here you have the operating system files.
If you install, let's say an application or a workload on the VM itself.
If you want to store application data, then it's better to actually go ahead and create an additional
disk.
The Azure managed disks are block level storage volumes that are managed by Azure themselves.
These are like your physical disks that you have for your machines, but they are virtualized when it
comes onto the virtual machine environment so that you get that OS level disk.
But what you can do is you can create additional data disks and then you can attach them onto your VMs.
I say this is ideal when you want to host applications.
So if your applications need to store their data instead of storing them on the OS level disk, it's
normally recommended to store it on a separate data disk.
Now, when it comes on to manage data disks, there are different types of disks in place.
We have currently, at this point in time different types.
So we have standard HDD, standard SSD, we have the premium SSD and we have Ultra Disk.
SSD is basically backed by solid state drives.
These are data disks are much faster in nature.
They give you higher performance depending upon the type of workload that you're going to host on your
VM, you will decide on the type of disk.
So for example, if you want to host a lightweight web server on a VM and that web server needs to store
its web data, the web application.
You can create an additional data disk based on, let's say, standard SSD.
You will see for each disk the maximum disk size, something known as max IOPs and max throughput.
Obviously, the cost of having a disk in place is going to increase based on the feature, right?
If you look at ultra disks, these really give you the best performance.
And this is ideal when you have production level database systems in place, when you need better performance,
better throughput.
At that point in time, you'll probably use Ultra Disk, but again, the cost is going to increase.
And the cost obviously based on the amount of provisioned throughput, we are going to go on to a lab
on how we can add a data disk onto VMs.
But before that, You can go through this documentation link to understand your decision in terms of
choosing a particular disk type.
And before that, I want to give kind of a quick note when it comes on to IOPs and throughput.
So each disk type you get a certain number of IOPs in place and throughput.
What exactly is IOPs?
So IOPs is the physical input and output operations per second for storage.
Let's say that you're hosting a database server on a VM.
On the database server you host a database and tables of information.
The CPU of the VM is obviously required from a computational aspect for the database server, but the
data itself, the data in the tables.
Finally, in the end they are stored as database data files on the underlying hard disk.
Okay.
On the disk itself.
Now, when a user fires a query against the database system, let's say to fetch data from an underlying
table, what's going to happen is first the database server.
That service is going to see if that table data is already in memory.
In order to serve the data, in order to serve the data from the database.
The data first needs to be loaded onto the internal Ram memory.
So if the data is not present in the Ram memory, it's present on the data disk.
Then the database service needs to perform a read operation and input operation on the data disk copied
onto memory, and then give the response of the query back to the user.
Hence, this concept of an input operation of reading data from a disk.
Okay, it's an operation.
This is the amount of IOPs in terms of input.
If you are writing data onto the disk, its output operations for a database system, a production database
system, you will have a million queries in place that's going against the database service itself.
At that point in time, the database server might be doing a lot of operations on the underlying disk.
So at that point in time, the amount of IOPs that is supported by the disk is very, very important
because if the IOPs is less then the it would become a bottleneck for the database service to go and
fetch data.
So this is very important.
It all depends also on the amount of IOPs based on your requirement.
The other thing is throughput.
Now throughput is the amount of data per second that the disk can accept or give.
An example is let's say you have an application hosted on the VM.
That application accepts videos uploaded by users.
Now, videos are basically big chunks of data.
If you look at a database system, there are queries are small chunks of data.
But here we are looking at, let's say videos in different resolutions.
They are big chunks.
They are big video files.
These videos, when they are uploaded by users, they have to be copied onto the underlying data disk.
If you have a higher throughput, you can copy larger chunks of your video.
Hence, you'll get a better throughput in terms of copying videos onto the underlying data disk.
Again, this is very beneficial if you have applications that are taking in a lot larger chunks of data
as input and then copying it onto the underlying data disk, it's going to give kind of a quick overview
on IOPs and throughput because these are key factors.
But for us we're going to go simple.
We are just going to see how to basically create an additional data disk and attach it onto VM in the
subsequent chapter.

--- What happens when we stop the machine ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the process of shutting down a VM.
I'm going to take an example of the VM that's based on Windows Server.
Now, if you want to restart or shut down the VM, we have the option from windows itself.
Here we can either restart or shut down the VM.
Now if I shut down the VM from here, you know when it comes on Azure it will just kind of create a
partial shutdown of the machine.
You know here I'm actually trying to focus on two aspects.
One is the compute costs I mentioned earlier on.
If you want to save on just the compute cost, remember that compute is charged separately for your
VM, your disk or charge separately.
Your IP addresses are charged separately, but just from a compute aspect.
If you want to save on costs, remember you are charged based on the running time of your instance of
your virtual machine.
If you want to save on just the compute costs, you can go ahead and perform a deallocation of the VM.
What is the meaning of Deallocation?
Well, Deallocation is your VM will be deallocated from the underlying physical host when you start
the machine again.
The machine will start again on the host, on the host machine.
What we can do is we can perform.
You can see also in Azure we have a restart and a stop operation here as well.
And we have it from the Windows Server.
So if we do a shutdown from here you're not performing a deallocation.
It's kind of like a partial shutdown.
You will still be charged a little bit when it comes on to compute.
If you do want to be charged for compute at all, you would need to To perform a shutdown, a stop from
the Azure portal itself.
When you click on stop, it will perform a deallocation of the VM.
I said at any point in time you can start the machine again.
So this is one aspect.
I will stop the machine in a moment's time.
But I want to tell you about another aspect.
And that's just quickly in terms of the storage.
If I go on to the VM, let me go on to File Explorer.
So we have our data e drive.
We had assigned this disk earlier on.
In another tab I'll go on to my C drive.
Let me just copy some files.
Any random files?
I'm just copying some.
This is from the Internet Information Services folder.
I'll copy these two files onto my e drive at the same time.
If I go on to another tab here in File Explorer.
So on our PC we have our main C drive, the OS level drive, we have our new data drive and we have
something known as temporary storage.
Let me go ahead and copy those two files here in temporary storage as well.
Now if you perform a shutdown or a restart from the machine.
So from here, if you perform a shutdown or restart, your files will definitely remain as they are
in the D drive.
They will not lose them.
And normally even on your temporary storage you should not lose the files.
But if I perform a stop and a start again from the Azure portal this performs.
Remember a deallocation of your VM.
What this means is your data on your E drive will remain as it is.
It's not going to you're not going to lose it because I said it's a separate resource altogether.
It's managed separately on your C drive also.
It should be fine.
Should not be a problem.
It's only when it comes onto your temporary storage.
That's where is you're going to lose your files.
So here it clearly says that there's a data loss warning Readme file as well.
Any data stored on this drive is subject to loss and there's no way to recover it.
So please don't use this disk for storing any personal or application data.
There's even.
So when you create a VM, there's even a file that's created for you to actually read.
And let you all know that temporary storage has a name, does imply is just for storing temporary data,
not for your permanent data.
So you would probably go ahead and lose this data.
So let's try this out.
Let me close this session because then we're going to lose it later on and I'll stop.
It's clearly saying that this is a deallocation operation that takes around 1 to 2 minutes, but it
can take 90 minutes in some cases.
I just hope it doesn't take 90 minutes.
But let's click on yes and stop the VM.
So now what's happening is it's performing something known as a deallocation operation.
It's deallocating the VM from the underlying physical host.
Remember now after this, once the machine is in the stop state, you will not accrue any charges just
in terms of compute.
Okay.
It's done.
That's good.
So now we can see that the status has changed onto a stop deallocated state.
I can go ahead and start the machine again.
So let me go ahead and start the machine.
You know, earlier on this would also be a change in the public IP address.
That was before when public IP addresses had basically something known as two SKUs, something known
as basic and standard.
But now Azure only has one SKU currently that is standard.
So the public IP address is not going to change when you stop and start the machine.
So early on there could be changes in the public IP address.
But at this point in time there's no change.
The main changes are going to come when we look at the data, the disk, the data on the disk itself.
Okay, I'll just go on to my downloads folder and connect on to the machine itself again.
We already know how to do this, right?
I'll just connect.
If it takes a little bit time to connect again remember it's it might just take some time to start in
case if we're getting an error, just go ahead and connect again.
When we're connected I'll quickly just open up the File Explorer.
And File Explorer if I go on to my D drive.
Sorry e drive, I can see both my files in place.
I told you, nothing's going to happen here.
If I go on to my temporary storage.
The files are gone.
In this chapter, I want to give two notes.
So one thing is the concept of performing a shutdown from the Azure portal itself that performs something
known as a deallocation process, and at the same time do not store your permanent files, your application
files in the temporary storage.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Data Disks Snapshot ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through a feature known as data disk snapshots.
A snapshot is a full read only copy of a virtual hard disk.
A snapshot can be taken out of the operating system and the data disk.
The snapshot can act as a point in time backup.
So if you want to take a backup of the data on your, let's say, data disk, you can take a snapshot.
It's a point in time backup.
You can also use the snapshot data to bring up a new disk if you want to, say, diagnose or troubleshoot
issues.
So from a security perspective, an example is let's say there's a malware on a machine.
They might want to isolate the malware on the data disk.
So what they would do is they first create a snapshot of the existing disk, then create a new disk
from the snapshot, and then attach the disk onto a new VM and perform analysis accordingly.
Now for us, as a first step, let's ensure we already have actually data on our disk.
Let me create quickly a disk snapshot from the Azure portal.
And then what we'll do has a next step is.
So first is making sure that we have the disk snapshot in place.
Once we have the snapshot.
I'm going to create a new data disk out of the snapshot.
I want to attach now this new data disk onto another Azure VM.
So what I'm going to quickly do is I'm going to create a new Azure VM based on again Windows Server.
And then attach this new data disk onto this new Azure VM.
Now I want to give a quick important note for students at this point in time.
So I'm keeping you know, at times I'm going to be keeping my infrastructure in place because it makes
sense, right?
Based on what we're going to be doing at one point in time in a, you know, after a few chapters,
I'm going to delete all of my resources and start with a clean slate again.
Now, let's say if you're uncomfortable with the approach of keeping resources in place, let's say
from a costing perspective, you can always go ahead and delete and recreate your resource at any point
in time.
I said, for me or for y'all to make things simpler.
You know, instead of recreating infrastructures again for a set of chapters that make sense, you know,
to have that same infrastructure in place, I keep it.
So even now I have my servers in place, but after some time, we'll, you know, once we are done with
a certain set of chapters, I'll go ahead and delete all of my resources.
So let's focus on this particular chapter wherein I said, first we create something known as a snapshot,
wherein I said, if you want to take a point in time copy of your data on your disk, just as a safety
precaution, you can go ahead and create a disk snapshot.
Then using the disk snapshot, I'm going to create a new data disk.
And then we'll attach that data disk onto a new VM.
Okay.
Going on to Azure this is for VM.
Now for VM zero one that's based on a Windows Server machine.
Remember we had created that additional.
Let me just close.
Actually bigger that additional data disk.
Let me just click on refresh.
So this was that additional data disk.
If I go on to it remember this is a separate resource on its own.
I can go ahead and just hide this for the moment.
Here we have the option to create something known as a snapshot.
So this is I said that a point in time read only copy of your data.
I'll click on Create snapshot.
Currently on our data disk.
We have those two files in place.
Remember this is based on our E drive for the E drive on our Windows server.
This was our new data disk.
And we have these two files in place.
And let's say that you have a collection large collection of files.
And you want to take kind of a snapshot, a copy just to make sure, just to be on the safe side, in
creating the snapshot, we get a wizard.
This will be in a resource group.
I can give a name.
For the snapshot.
This will be in East US.
Let's go on to okay.
It's saying that do you want to make an incremental or a snapshot?
I want to create a full, complete read only copy of the selected disk.
We can choose the storage type in the storage type.
Let me put it as premium SSD.
Go onto next for encryption.
I'll leave it as it is.
We'll be going through encryption later on.
Networking I can enable public access so I'm not changing anything.
I'm just go on to review and create and create the snapshot.
That's it.
I'll click on create since we don't have that much data on our disk.
You should not take that much time to have a snapshot in place.
And once we have the snapshot, let's create a new data disk out of the snapshot.
This data disk initially is not going to be attached onto any VM, so it's going to be in isolation.
So another important concept from an infrastructure perspective is you have to understand that the VM
is a separate resource.
The data disks are separate resource.
You can detach the data at any point in time and attach it onto another VM.
Something that you can do.
Your IP address is the same concept.
You can disassociate your public IP addresses from your VMs and attach it onto other resources.
Obviously, there are constraints that the resources need to be in the same region.
Sometimes in the same resource group, you have to refer to the Microsoft documentation when it comes
on to detaching and attaching resources accordingly.
Right.
We have a snapshot in place in another tab.
If I just go on to all resources click on refresh.
So we have this snapshot.
It's of the type snapshot.
It's another resource altogether.
So in this tab I can go on to the disk snapshot itself.
And now here we have the ability to create a new disk.
So I can create a brand new disk out of this disk snapshot.
Again we have a wizard.
Let me name this as Data Disk zero two in East US I'll just say no infrastructure redundancy required.
Again, the same size of premium SSD layers won't change anything in the subsequent screens.
I'll just go on to review and create and let's create our new managed disk.
So what we have now, we have our snapshot, and we should be having a disk that's not attached onto
any sort of resource.
Let's wait till this complete again.
It should not take that much time.
Now once this deployment is complete.
So now we have a new data disk in place.
This data disk is in my resource group.
It's in east US.
And you can see currently it is not attached to any VM.
Now let me go ahead and create a new virtual machine.
We'll keep this simple.
We'll keep this in the same resource group.
I'll just give a new name in East US because I want to put as part of my same virtual network.
I'll put this as Windows Server 2025.
Make sure to change the size onto the standard underscore B2S2 virtual CPUs.
Just give a username and password that I can use to log into the machine.
Now in the disk what I'm going to do is here I'm going to scroll down.
I'm going to say let's attach an existing disk.
Remember we do have that existing data disk in place.
Now it's showing up I'll leave it as the same logical unit number of zero.
That's fine.
Go on networking.
Make sure it's part of my existing virtual network.
Make sure it's part of my existing subnet.
Let's create a new public IP address.
Go to management monitoring advance tags review and create.
And let's create a new VM.
So here I want to showcase that even during the the creation time of the VM, we can go ahead and attach
existing data disks.
Once the validation is complete, I'll go ahead and click on create and let's come back once the machine
is in place.
Now once the deployment of my VM is complete, I'll go on to the resource itself.
We now have a new VM.
I'll go onto the connect option.
Since this is a windows based server I can download the audio file.
So we'll get a new remote desktop file.
This will be now for this VM.
It will contain the public IP address and the details of this new VM.
I'll click on connect.
Again put in my username and password.
So we are connecting onto the machine.
Now once you have a session onto the server let me open up File Explorer in File Explorer.
If I go on to this PC just to make sure what are the volumes that I have here.
We can see that we have our C drive.
We have our D drive and we also have our data drive in place.
Remember this is for web VM zero three.
Since we are already initialize the disk early on and we created something known as a snapshot.
So windows has automatically understood that we now have a new data disk in place and is automatically
also create a volume out of that disk.
Remember we are on web VM zero three, not on VM zero one.
And if I go on to that volume I can see my files in place.
So the entire idea was just to showcase that from an existing disk we can create a disk snapshot.
We can create a new disk out of that snapshot and attach it onto a new VM.
Okay, now that we are done, I'm going to close this session.
Since I don't need web VM zero three, let me go on to all resources.
I am not going to delete all of my resources as of yet, because we still have a few more chapters left
in this series of, you know, looking at BMS.
But what I can do is since I don't need web zero three, I can go and just mark the resources based
on web VM zero three and delete them.
So this is the virtual machine, the IP address, the NSG network security group, the network interface
and the disk.
And if we don't need the data disk the new one, we can delete that as well.
You can select the resources that you no longer require.
We can click on delete here.
It's giving you a confirmation.
Just type in delete and click on the delete button.
This should execute now a command to remove these resources accordingly.
You'll also get a notification once the deletion process is complete.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Azure Disks - Server Side Encryption ---

On this topic, I want to give an introduction onto something known as encryption when it comes onto
your disk.
See when you look at our infrastructure.
So when it comes on to virtual machines, rbms are hosted.
Remember on physical servers in Azure Data Center.
When it comes onto our disks.
So for us these disks are virtual in nature.
But in the end these disks are hosted on some sort of storage cluster, right?
This is physical hardware.
These are storage scale units or clusters or racks of storage nodes.
So in the end you have to remember that your disk is your virtual disk.
The data is stored on actual physical hardware.
And remember everything is part of a data center in the end.
From an Azure perspective, Microsoft, they have a lot of security protocols in place to secure your
data.
So in terms of physical access, in terms of security for your softwares, etc., everything, there's
a lot of security in place.
But companies always want to have that additional level of security.
And here we are talking about data that's stored on the underlying disk.
So you could have sensitive data stored on the disk even though the disks are stored in the end in storage
clusters in Azure data centers, where it's not easy to get access to.
From a security perspective, they would want to securely store this data.
That's why you have this concept of encryption.
Encryption is a technique that's used to encrypt data.
You encrypt data using something known as a key and encryption key, and an encryption algorithm when
it comes onto Azure Disk Storage.
They already have something known as server side encryption, enabled by default.
This encrypts the data stored on Azure Managed Disk, both your OS level disk and your data disk.
Your manager, your Azure manages the entire encryption process.
The data is encrypted using an algorithm and a key.
This does not impact the performance of your managed disks and there is no additional cost.
The.
By default, Azure manages the encryption keys.
These are known as platform keys, but you can also make use of your own customer managed keys.
That is what we are going to just look at quickly in the subsequent chapters.
How can we use server side encryption using our own encryption keys?
In this chapter, first and foremost, we want to give an introduction when it comes onto your server
side encryption for your Azure managed disks.

--- Lab - Azure Key Vault Service ---

So now in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use customer managed keys when it comes on to
server side disk encryption.
If I go on to one of the OS level disk, let me go on to the disk that is assigned onto web VM zero
two.
This is for our Linux based machine.
This also works for windows based machines.
Under settings, if I go on to encryption here, you will see that it's already enabled.
Encryption is already offered by default when it comes onto your manage disk.
The only thing is the the only thing is the underlying encryption keys are managed by Azure themselves.
Sometimes there'll be companies wherein from a security perspective, there is a requirement wherein
you need to manage the underlying encryption keys.
Now for this we need to make use of a service.
If you need to store our own encryption keys, there is a service in Azure known as the Azure Key Vault
service.
The key service is a managed service that allows you to store securely your secrets, your encryption
keys, and your certificates.
See, in our case, what we want is we want to create something known as an encryption key.
This key can be used to encrypt the data on the data disk.
I said the data is already in the encrypted state, but the only difference is the key that is being
used to encrypt the data is managed by Azure.
But normally companies have that requirement wherein they themselves need to manage the encryption key.
Now, if companies want to manage their own encryption keys.
One way is to kind of host an encryption based software on some machine and use that software to generate
encryption keys.
But in Azure there is a service known as the Azure Keyword Service.
It's a platform as a service wherein you don't maintain the underlying software or the infrastructure.
And the keyword service can be used to generate encryption keys.
And these keys can be used to encrypt your data at the same time.
The key can also be used to store your secrets.
For example database credentials like your database passwords.
You can store them as secrets in the keyword, and your applications can make secure calls on the keyword
and fetch the passwords accordingly.
And it can also be used for storing your certificates as well.
In this chapter, let's just focus on building a resource first on the Azure Keyword Service.
So in another tab, if I go onto all resources, let me go ahead and click on create.
Now in the marketplace we can search for the service that we want.
So let's say we want to create a resource based on Azure Key Vault service in the marketplace under
Key Vault.
I'll say yes.
I want to create a resource based on the service.
We again get a wizard.
I'll select my existing resource group.
I will need to give a unique keyword name.
If I just give keyword, it's saying it's already been used by someone else.
What you can do is you can append some numbers.
Try and make it unique in nature.
We are going to create this keyword in the same region as our virtual machine and the disk.
So it's going to be in East stress in terms of the pricing tier standard.
We have standard and we have premium.
Again, we won't be charged that much when it comes on usage of the keys.
If I scroll down there's something known as soft delete.
Now soft delete is enabled by default.
See what happens is let's say by mistake, someone has gone ahead and delete a keyword or a particular
object in the keyword itself.
Instead of being permanently deleted, what the keyword service will do is it will put that state of
the object.
So let's say someone has mistakenly or accidentally deleted a key from the keyword.
That key will go into something known as a soft read state, and it can be recovered during something
known as the retention window.
So this helps to protect against accidental or malicious deletes when it comes onto the objects in the
keyboard.
So this is enabled by default.
Then we have the days to retain the key vaults.
I'll leave it as seven.
The minimum duration.
In order to make use of server side encryption for Key Vault, we will need to enable port protection.
This is another safeguard on top of the soft delete option.
If it is enabled, you know no one can go and actually purge a removed object during the retention period.
Click on next in access configuration.
We have two types of permission models when it comes on to the key vault.
You have several permissions to manage the key vault itself.
At the same time, you have separate permissions to manage the different objects within the keyboard.
I'll leave everything as it is for now.
Click on next.
Actually, let me go on to tags and Review and create.
And let's create the Key Vault.
I'll click on create.
I'll just take a moment or two.
Let's wait till we have the key vault in place.
Now, once the deployment of the keyboard is complete, I can go on to the keyboard resource.
And here under the objects, you will see that you will have the ability to create encryption keys.
You have the ability to create something known as secrets.
And you have something the ability to create something known as certificates.
Now we want to create an encryption key in order to create an encryption key.
You're saying that this operation is not allowed by something known as Rbac.
We will be covering role based assignments in the section when it comes to security.
But at this point in time, you know, the key word service, you know, is storing a lot of critical
data in terms of your encryption keys, your secrets, and your certificates.
That's why you have multiple layers of security.
Even has the Azure admin.
I'm logged in as Azure Admin.
Even though I'm logged in as the Azure Administrator.
Still I will not have the ability to actually create an encryption key.
What I need to do is I need to first go on to access control.
Under access control, I'll add a role assignment.
In the role assignment, let me search for the keyword.
And for the keyword let me choose a keyword administrator.
So this is the role that I want to choose.
Click on next.
Click on select members.
Here I should be able to see my Azure admin.
Don't worry about this admin user.
You have to choose your Azure Administrator account.
Click on select.
Click on next.
So what we're doing here is we are using a service known as Microsoft enter ID and the app permission
model.
When it comes on to role based access control, we are giving permissions to ourselves the administrator
permissions to manage the key vault.
I'll click on review and Assign and assign the role accordingly.
After signing a role, just wait for a moment or two.
You know, after a moment or two.
Now when you go on to keys, you don't see that message anymore.
That error message.
I can click on generate an import and we can now generate a key.
I can give a simple name.
We can leave the key size as it is and click on create.
So now we have an encryption key in place.
Let's move on to the next chapter where in.
Now for a disk we can enable server side encryption using a key that we defined in the key vault.

--- Lab - Disk Encrytion Sets ---

Now in the prior chapter, what we've done is in order to make sure that we can encrypt our disk in
Azure using our own encryption key, we are making use of a platform as a service in Azure known as
Azure Key Vault Service.
In Azure Keyword Service, we have defined an encryption key.
Now that encryption key can be used to encrypt data on our data disk.
Note that this entire encryption process is abstract to you.
It's going to happen in the background for you.
When you access data via your data disk, you don't see the encryption process taking place.
It is in the end when the data is stored on the underlying physical disks in Azure Data Center.
At that point, they will be encrypted.
They'll be encrypted at rest.
Going back onto my, uh, OS level disk, it's saying that the encryption settings can only be made
when the disk is unattached, or the managing virtual machine is deallocated.
Something to note?
So let me go onto my virtual machines.
What I can do here is I can select VM zero two.
I can go on to the context menu and click on stop here.
So we have various ways again to work with VMs.
The basic operations I am stopping web VM zero two so that we can change the encryption settings for
the OS level disk.
Let's wait till the VM operation is complete.
Now once done I've got the notification that the command was successful.
If you want you can click on refresh.
And now we can see that the VM is in the stopped Deallocated state.
Now that this is done, we have to create something known as a disk encryption set within Azure.
That disk encryption set is going to make use of our encryption key.
And then we can change the disk settings to use that disk encryption set.
Here I will need to search for disk encryption sets.
I should be able to create a new set.
This will be in our resource group.
I'll just give a simple name for now.
This will be in East US.
I want to manage now encryption at rest with a customer managed key.
You can also perform encryption with both the platform and the customer.
Manage key and use something known as confidential disk encryption as well.
I'll go with encryption at rest with a customer managed key.
Here.
It's telling me.
Now we can select our key vault from the key vault we should be able to select our key.
And then every key has a version.
So this is the current version.
Let me go on to review and create and see if we can create this disk encryption set.
So all we're doing is we need to create something known as this encryption set.
This will contain the details about the encryption key and the type of encryption that we want to perform.
And then later on we can associate this with our disk.
Now once you have the encryption set in place let me go on to the set itself.
Here initially we're getting kind of a error message.
It's saying to associate a disk or an image or a snapshot.
With this set we must grant permissions.
Luckily what we can do is if you just click on this link, it would go ahead and grant the adequate
permissions.
What it's doing is it's assigning again something known as role based access control onto the keyword.
So this disk encryption set can make use of that keyword.
Okay.
Now that this is done let me go on to all resources.
Since.
Go on to my web VM zero two disk.
Go on to encryption and within encryption.
Now under key management we have the ability to you know mention our customer manage key.
We can set our encryption set and click on save.
Is it for you.
You're not going to see a difference for you.
You are still working with the underlying data on the disk.
I said it's only from a security perspective there.
There is always a mention saying that, you know, companies always stress that even when it comes on
to an encryption key, you don't want the underlying cloud platform to manage it.
You need to have control over the encryption key itself.
So the entire point of this exercise was just to show you all that we can change the encryption by using
our own encryption key.
Right.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Disk Encryption ---

Now, in the prior chapter, I talked about this concept of server side encryption, wherein when your
data is finally stored on the underlying physical infrastructure, the physical storage, your data
will be encrypted before it is finally stored at rest.
There is another encryption model that's available from Azure that's known as Azure Disk Encryption.
If you go on to the documentation, you will see you have server side encryption and your Azure Disk
encryption.
Again, Azure Disk Encryption can be used to encrypt your OS and your data level disk.
You're the only difference is Azure Disk Encryption makes use of the tools available at the OS level
to encrypt data.
So for example, when it comes onto windows, it uses BitLocker to encrypt the data.
So here everything is happening at an OS level on server side encryption.
Everything is happening at the final storage level where your storage is being encrypted.
Here it is the OS levels responsibility to encrypt your data so you have these different levels that
you can decide on when it comes on to encrypting your data.
Even for Azure Disk encryption, we can make use of the Azure keyword.
So by default Azure Disk Encryption is not enabled.
We can go ahead and do this.
What I'll do is let me go on to my key vault.
Let me create a new key.
I'll use this key to encrypt the data on my windows based server.
Now since I have a windows based server based on Windows Server.
Now, since I have a server based on Windows Server 2025, the support key size is 4096.
Hence, I will choose this as a key size and click on create.
So now I'm just creating a new key.
Next I need to go on to the settings and access configuration for the keyboard.
There is a resource action known as Azure Disk Encryption for volume encryption.
I'll need to apply this.
This is an additional setting that's required if you want to perform the act of Azure Disk Encryption.
Now saying that there is an error which occurred this.
So for this error what we need to do is we will need to go onto the networking section of the Key vault.
I'll choose the setting of allow public access from specific virtual networks and IP addresses, and
just click and also enable allow trusted Microsoft services to bypass this firewall.
I'll click on apply.
By the way, when it comes onto the virtual network section, I'll explain again this concept when it
comes on to firewalls and virtual networks.
The settings basically let me go back to access configuration, enable Azure Disk Encryption and click
on apply.
Now it should go through wherein yes it's now done.
Once done.
I will go on to my VMs.
Now the virtual machine.
Let me go on to VM zero one.
I'll go on to the disk and in the disk section I can go on to the additional settings.
In additional settings I should be able to now enable Azure Disk Encryption.
Here we can say that we want to encrypt the OS and the data disk.
I can select my keyword.
I can select my new key.
Select the version and then click on save.
Again everything will be done in the background, because now the encryption of your data will be done
at the OS level.
If you have a connection or to your machine, you might lose a connection during this entire process.
I said, now what it's doing is it is performing that act of encrypting your data.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now, once the deployment is complete.
So I didn't lose the connection onto my machine.
But now if I go onto my PC, you'll see these icons.
Now you can see that the notification has also come that the encryption is in process.
So now the OS is performing the encryption of your data on your OS and your data level disk.
Let me go and close this.
So now we are done.
With a set of chapters when it comes on Azure VMs, we still have a lot that we need to cover, but
for now, since we are done.
I want to delete all of my resources.
Now, one way of doing this is I can go on to the All Resources view.
I can select all of my resources and click on the delete button.
Something that we can do.
We could also go on to the resource group that is holding our resources.
Let me just hide this and I can choose to delete the entire resource group may delete a resource group.
It'll delete all resources within the resource group itself.
Since I want to go ahead and have a clean slate, I'll choose Delete Resource Group.
Make sure that I give the resource group name and click on delete.
Right.
So this marks the end of the set of chapters.
Let's move on to the next.

--- Custom Script Extensions ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the chapter, I want to give an introduction on something known as Custom Script Extensions.
Then in the next chapter let's build a new VM.
But this time, during the creation of the virtual machine itself, we'll make use of this feature known
as Custom Script Extensions.
What is the main purpose of Custom Script Extensions is it's a feature that allows you to automate the
post deployment of, let's say, software applications on your machines.
See, what we have done earlier on is when we looked at building VMs.
So we spun up a VM, let's say based on Windows Server or Ubuntu.
And then we logged on to each machine.
Right.
Either it was RDP into the Windows Server or Secure Shell onto the Linux machine.
And then we installed Internet Information Services on Windows or Nginx on Linux.
This was a manual task.
In today's world there's a lot of automation in place wherein we want to automate tasks wherever possible.
So we want to automate the task of installing internet information services on windows.
So when a new VM is deployed automatically, that VM should have internet information services.
Or if we deploy a VM based on ubuntu automatically it should have nginx in place.
And what we can do is one option in Azure is to make use of custom script extensions.
VMs have this ability of something known as Azure VM extensions.
These extensions extend like the name does imply.
It can extend the functionality of certain aspects about your VM.
So first thing is custom script.
Custom script allows you to run scripts that can probably set up an application, set up a software,
install something.
So ideal for your post deployment configuration software, installation task, etc. in order to make
this work, you still need to devise a script that's going to run.
That's the entire purpose of custom script extension.
You create the script, so it is your responsibility to create a script that will perform the required
task.
So for us, for example, I'm going to showcase a script that will install internet information services
automatically.
So it's my responsibility to create that script.
If you need a script that will run, that will install a software.
So you will need to make sure that the script is devised in such a way that first of all, it does a
silent installation in the background of the software.
Because remember, this custom script extension runs in the background.
Once the VM is deployed, it will start that process of using the script to install, let's say, your
software.
So you need to make sure that you devise your script in such a way that it performs a silent installation
in the background.
It does not prompt for any user credentials or any user prompts because it's going to fail.
Then because it's happening in the background, you can't see it.
You can't log onto the machine at that point in time.
So there are some things that you have to consider when you create the script.
The script file can reside in as a reside somewhere.
Custom script extensions will pick up that file from somewhere, the custom script, and then run it
accordingly.
So your script can be in a storage account.
It can be in GitHub.
What we'll do is we are going to make use of Azure Storage for this purpose.
Now I know we've not covered Azure Storage.
We'll be covering this in the storage section.
But for now we'll create something known as a very simple Azure Storage account.
In that we're going to create our script.
And then we'll create a VM to make use of custom script extensions.
Right.
So let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Custom Script Extensions for Windows Virtual Machines ---

So let's see how we can use custom script extensions.
First and foremost, I told you we need some sort of storage location to store our script.
We still need to have a script in place.
But before that, let's go ahead and create a resource based on the Azure Storage service.
Now, currently I only have one resource in place that's something known as a Network Watcher resource.
There's no cost for this.
Remember we had removed our resource group in the last chapter.
Hence we don't have any resources in place.
I am going to go on to the left portal menu.
Go on to a service known as Storage Accounts.
As the name does imply, this is a storage service on Azure.
We'll be covering this in the section of storage later on.
For now, I want to create something known as an Azure Storage account.
So I'll click on Create a Storage account.
Please note that storage account is just a name given to the service.
You are not creating an account within an account.
Don't get confused.
Used again.
We have a screen.
Let's keep this as simple as possible.
I'll create a new resource group.
What I'll do is let me give the same group name again.
I'll click on okay.
I'll need to give a unique storage account name.
Again.
If I just give a simple name it's not going to work.
Normally I can you can append some numbers to make the storage account name unique.
I'll keep this in East US.
In the preferred storage type, I'll choose Azure Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.
In terms of the performance, I'll leave it as standard in terms of the redundancy, I'll choose locally
redundant storage since I don't want to do anything on the subsequent screens.
I'll just click on Review and Create.
This will take me on to the final screen because I'm creating a storage account with the default settings.
Click on create.
Now the next step is to have a script in place.
I want to create a script.
I've already done this beforehand.
I'll just paste in the code again from the perspective of AZ 104.
You will not be asked about any sort of creation of scripts.
You will be asked, you know, based on using something known as Azure Command Line Interface or PowerShell
later on.
But these scripts you won't be questioned on.
I said I want to showcase an example of custom script extensions.
So I have a simple script that's going to, first of all, install internet information services automatically.
Then it will create a very simple HTML page and store that HTML page within the required web directory
that you know that serves web content when it comes to to Internet Information Services itself.
Now, what I'm doing is just to have a script in place.
I'm using a tool known as Visual Studio Code.
You can download this tool for free and install it.
It's a very simple installation.
You can create your script in notepad as well.
You don't need any sort of fancy editor, it's just that I have it installed on my local machine.
Right?
This is Visual Studio Code.
After you download and install the tool, I told you you can have your script and I will make the script
available as a resource to this chapter.
So no problem.
Just to showcase what the script looks like.
I have opened up an empty folder here in VS code on my local machine.
This is on my local machine.
I'll just create.
A file I said don't worry, this file will be made available as a resource.
So this is going to be based on PowerShell.
I'm attaching a simple code file.
I said the first step is to make use of the inbuilt features in on Windows Server.
Using this line, we can install the role of Internet Information Services, the role of the web server
on the Windows server itself.
Then I have a variable defined of C inet pub.
Actually, when you have internet information services, the web content is served from this particular
folder.
Creating a simple HTML content and then saving it onto that path.
Very simple.
I'm just saving this file.
So this is on a dev folder on my local machine.
Let me go back onto Azure wherein I have my Azure storage account in place within the storage account.
Just expand data storage.
Go on to containers.
Click on add a container.
This is like a root level folder for your files.
You can give any name.
I'm giving a name of scripts for the container.
Then let me go on to the scripts container.
We can upload that PowerShell script file from our local machine.
I'll click on upload browse for files.
I'm going on to my local dev folder.
Using that setup file, click on open and click on upload.
So now we have our file located in our storage account.
Now let's quickly spin up a VM in another tab.
I'll go on to virtual machines or create a new VM.
In this VM I'll choose my existing resource group.
Give the name for the VM Him in east US.
No infrastructure.
So now I'm going a little bit faster because we are already familiar with the creation of the machine
itself.
So there should be Windows Server.
Sys is standard underscore B to S.
Give the required details.
Now when I scroll down in this public inbound ports I will also allow traffic on port 80.
Remember early on we used to go to that network security group and add that inbound port rule.
Well in the wizard you can actually allow the most common protocols of HTTP, https, secure shell and
RDP.
So by checking this HTTP 80 it will automatically add that inbound port rule.
Click on next for the this networking.
Since I don't have a virtual network, it will create a new one for me.
We'll create a new public IP address for the machine.
I'll accept the defaults and click on okay.
Go on to next for management.
This is fine.
Go on advance.
Now in the advanced section there is a place where in we can select an extension to install.
I'll select an extension here to install.
What you'll see is a number of extensions.
So these extensions could install something configure something.
These are all inbuilt extensions.
I'm going to search for the one of Custom script extension.
I will click on this.
Click on next.
Now we just need to tell Custom Script Extensions.
Where is our file.
I'll click on browse.
Here we can browse onto our storage account.
I can then go on to my scripts container, select my PowerShell script and click on select.
It will now run this script file.
I'll click on create.
Go on to the final review and create Screen and create my VM.
So what's going to happen now is yes, it will do the normal deployment of VM based on Windows Server.
I'll go ahead and just click on create.
But after the VM is deployed automatically it will also now install an extension on the machine known
as Custom Script Extensions.
It will be an agent that agent.
After it is installed it will download the file from my storage account.
The PowerShell script file and it will run the PowerShell script file.
And as per our PowerShell script file, we are telling.
Please go ahead and first of all, install Internet Information services and then have a kind of a simple
page in place with simple HTML code.
Now this does take time.
When it comes on to custom script extensions, it could take around 5 to 8 minutes.
So what I'll do is let me wait and then come back.
Now often time, once the deployment is complete, I can go on to the resource itself.
So we are going on to the web VM zero one machine.
If I just take the public IP address, go on to a new browser tab and the public IP address itself.
I should hopefully get the home page of Internet Information Services.
And this works as expected at the same time here.
If I go on to slash default dot HTML, I have my sample HTML page in place.
So in this chapter, I want to go through how we can make use of custom script extensions.

--- Lab - Custom Script Extensions for Linux Virtual Machines ---

Now, in the prior chapter, I'd shown you how you could set up custom script extensions for a windows
based server.
In this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use custom script extensions even for Linux.
I'm going to have a script, a bash script that will run that'll install nginx again, the same concept.
Let me go on to VS code.
I'll just create a new file here.
Again, this file will be available as a resource.
Just give a name for the file.
This is going to be a bash script file.
Let me put in code.
What we're doing in this particular code is we are first updating the package index.
I'm then installing the nginx web server.
When you install nginx, the folder that serves web content is slash slash slash HTML.
Then I'm creating a simple index dot HTML file.
I'm having this simple content Intent and just enabling and restarting the nginx service.
So all of this is within a script.
I will save this.
Let me go on to.
My scripts container in Azure storage.
Let me upload that file from my local machine.
So this is the setup for nginx.
Let me first upload this file onto the storage account.
Let me quickly build now a new machine.
So I have my existing machine and my resources in place.
I've kept them in place so that I have my network, everything in place as well.
Let's quickly build a new Linux based machine.
Let me go on to virtual machines and choose to create a new VM.
Select my existing resource group.
Give a machine name.
Again East us no infrastructure.
This time I want Ubuntu Server 24.04.
In terms of the size, I'll choose Standard underscore b1 s select password.
Give the required details again in the select post.
Let's remember to allow traffic on port 80.
Go on to the dis networking.
Let me make sure that it is within our existing virtual network.
I'll make sure it is within our existing subnet.
Let's create a new public IP address.
Again we have to go on to the advanced tab.
In the advanced tab I will click on select an extension to install.
We will search for Custom Script.
This time there's a custom script extension for Linux because now there'll be a different agent that
will run on a Linux distribution, and that will fetch the script from our storage account and then
run the script accordingly.
I'll choose custom script for Linux, click on next.
Same concept I have to browse for.
The script file in my container.
So this time it is the setup nginx script file.
I'll click on select.
I need to make sure that the same name is reflected here in what script to run.
So please make sure click on create.
Go on review and create.
And let's create this virtual machine.
Now please note that again it will take time.
Same concept, but this time I'm showcasing that we can run this for Linux as well.
I'll click on create and I'll come back once the deployment is complete.
Now once the deployment of the machine is complete, I can go on to the machine itself.
Let me take the public IP address, send a request onto the machine itself, and hopefully we should
be getting the default nginx page.
So now we are getting the actual page that we created as well, which now saying we have nginx running
as web server.
In this chapter I want to showcase how we can also run custom script extensions for a Linux based machine.

--- Linux Virtual Machines - Cloud init ---

In this chapter, I just want to give this brief note on another tool that you can use for automating
the process of installing packages.
This is for Linux distributions.
This cloud init is again an industry standard that you can actually use for post installation of packages
on your machines.
Now I won't go through an entire process.
I just want to show you all what you can do.
You can actually try this out if I try to create a new VM.
So a new virtual machine, this is going to be based on Ubuntu Server.
Choose my resource group, give a machine name in East US.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
In terms of the image.
Ubuntu server 24.04 leave the size as it is.
Mention my password.
Make sure again if you are trying this out to enable traffic on port 80, go onto next for the disk
onto networking.
Choose your existing network.
Choose your existing subnet.
Create a new public IP address.
Go on to management.
Go on to advance in advance.
We had looked at Apart using custom script extensions, but there is also this custom data section in
which you can type in your cloud init script.
So cloud init is an external tool that has its own set of commands that you can use for installing packages.
So as an example, don't worry, this code will be made available to you.
In this code, I'm using the cloud init base commands to update first of all the package index.
Then I'm telling to install the nginx package.
I'm telling you to create a new index dot HTML file and specifying the details to create in that file
itself.
There are specific commands that you can use as part of cloud init to install packages, and have kind
of your setup in place when the VM is first booted up within Azure.
I want to give this a quick note if you want to try it out.
I said this script will be made available.
Now that we are done with the set of chapters, I will go ahead and delete all of my resources.
So this includes my storage account.
This time around I will click on all resources, click on delete and delete my resources accordingly.

--- Virtual Machine - Boot Diagnostics ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through Azure Boot Diagnostics.
Boot diagnostics is kind of a debugging feature when it comes onto your Linux based machines.
It can capture the console output.
When it comes onto windows based machines, it can capture the screenshots so it captures information
during the entire boot up process of the VM itself.
So this kind of designed to help an administrator when a VM fails to boot correctly.
If you want to diagnose the sort of issues in terms of boot failures or kernel failures, we can make
use of Azure boot diagnostics.
Now by default this is already enabled.
Azure manage the underlying storage that is used for capturing this information.
So as an example, if I go on to my existing VMs, let's say for web VM zero one that is based on windows,
if I scroll down under the help section, we have boot diagnostics for a windows based machine.
We should be able to see the screenshot.
I can see the entire screen.
That means the machine has moved in a correct manner, so it's fine.
I also have a Linux based machine in place for Linux.
If I go on to boot diagnostics.
Again, you get the screenshot, we have the login screen and we can see the entire serial log as well.
So this captures all of the information at the boot process stage, which is also very important for
an administrator.
So in this chapter I quickly want to go through the boot diagnostics feature.

--- Availability Sets ---

Hi and welcome back.
So in this chapter I want to go through the concept of availability sets.
In the last chapter I talked about that overview of, you know, the need of adding stability to your
entire systems and an infrastructure layer when it comes on to your virtual machines.
We do have some features in place for adding, you know, higher availability to your infrastructure.
In this chapter, I want to go through the use of something known as availability sets.
So again, let's take the use case example where in a company is hosting an application on just a single
Azure virtual machine.
I told you, if you have a very critical application running on the machine, and if the machine goes
down, the application is no longer available.
It can result in a loss of revenue and a loss of customer confidence, so on and so forth.
Hence, you want to ensure that the application is always running.
Hence you want to make sure that it's tolerant to faults at different layers.
Told you that the application can go down on its own due to several reasons the application could cause
problems on the VM.
The VM could go down.
The VM can also go down for other reasons at the infrastructure layer.
See for example, we know that the virtual machine in the end is hosted on a physical server in an Azure
data center.
There could be faults in the underlying physical layer, so they could be probably a network issue,
a power issue.
If this is the case, then it would cause a problem to the physical server and hence cause a problem
to the virtual machine.
I said Azure makes sure that their infrastructure is always, you know, highly available, but no one
can guarantee a complete 100% availability for infrastructure, Although sometimes Microsoft has to
perform vital updates to their physical machines, these physical machines again are hosting your virtual
machines.
Sometimes when these updates are applied, it would require a reboot of the entire physical server.
Now, if a reboot is required of the physical server, even though it is a fraction of a time, it could
just take a few minutes.
But in that few minutes, your application will no longer be available because your virtual machine
will be down again.
It's a problem for a company if they are having a critical application in place, a critical application
running on the VM.
So what companies normally do is they increase the availability of these critical applications by making
sure that they have multiple machines in place.
So they'll have the application running on multiple Azure VMs.
So if one machine were to go down, the application would still be available on another machine.
But the problem is that when you launch a VM, you have no control over what physical server the VM
is located on.
Let's say that both machines are launched on the same physical server in the Azure Data Center.
Again, we have that same problem wherein if there is a power failure that impacts this particular physical
server, both machines are down.
Or when Microsoft needs to perform an update on the physical server itself.
Again, both machines are down.
So what you can do is you can distribute your machines across your physical infrastructure by placing
them as part of something known as an availability set.
So what exactly is an availability set?
An And a baby set is a logical grouping of machines that helps you reduce the chances of multiple VMs
going down because of hardware issues.
To make use of availability sets, you need to deploy a machine to the availability set itself.
The machine can only be part of the set when it is created, so you can't add.
Currently, an existing machine has part of an availability set.
So when you create the machine at that point in time, you have to make the machine part of an availability
set.
So how does availability sets actually help in the case of these power failures?
In terms of whenever Microsoft needs to perform an update on the underlying physical infrastructure.
So when a machine is made part of an available set, the machine is allocated on something known as
a fault and an update domain.
So a baby.
Sets are made up of various fault and update domains.
What is a fault domain?
A fault domain defines a group of machines that share a common power source and network switch.
What are update domains?
Update domains are used to signify the group of machines and physical hosts that can be rebooted at
the same time.
So let's say that a company, you know, they have an application that is being used extensively.
Hence they have six machines in place just for the application itself to make sure that you have high
availability.
I said, if you want to deploy these six machines has they were maybe they might be located on the same
physical server and have the same problem at the infrastructure layer.
But if you make these machines part of an availability set, the availability set has different fault
and update domains.
means.
So when the machines are made part of the available set, they are allocated to different fault and
update domains.
So let's say out of these six machines, two machines are part of fault domain zero.
So at the infrastructure layer let's say there's a problem with the power supply and Ethernet switch
off just for domain zero.
It would only impact these two machines.
It will not impact the other machines.
So at fault layer you are trying to isolate the issues when it comes onto the power supply.
You know, things such as the power supply networks such as etc. by placing the machines as part of
different fault domains and at the same time the machines are placed as part of different update domains.
So when Microsoft needs to publish updates to the physical servers, the updates are made to, you know,
each update domain at a time.
A b domain zero could be one set of physical servers.
So when the updates need to go as part of this update domain, it only impacts this particular virtual
machine.
When the updates are done to this update domain, then the updates go on to the next update domain.
So this machine will be up and running and the updates will then impact this machine.
But in the end you still have machines available because they are part of other update domains.
When you create an available set, you can decide on the number of fault domains that you want and the
number of update domains.
Now note that there is no additional cost for using a vary sets.
Obviously from a costing perspective, right?
You are only again charged based on the number of machines that you have running as part of your entire
system.
Now, in the next chapter, I want to showcase how simple it is to go ahead and create machines as part
of an availability set.

--- Availability Sets - Review ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Availability Zones ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the prior chapter, we discussed the concept of a query sets wherein we can spread our machines
across multiple fault and update domains.
And by doing so, we are kind of distributing our machines across different power supplies.
Ethernet switches and making sure when updates are done, they are only carried out to a set of machines
at a time.
But what we need to remember is that in the end, the physical infrastructure when it comes onto an
availability set, all of them are located within a single data center within a particular Azure region.
What if we need to make sure that our infrastructure is available, even if a data center were to go
down?
Again, this is not a very likely event, but let's say there's a power outage on the entire data center.
It takes time to get everything online again.
your infrastructure is again not available.
Well, we can make use of something known as availability zones within Azure regions.
Not all of them, but most of them.
Regions have something known as availability zones.
What exactly is an Availability Zone?
This is a group of data centers.
There are fast links across the baby zones to ensure low latency.
So when you are deploying your VMs, what you can do is insert deploying the VMs onto an availability
set.
You can deploy the VMs across different availability zones.
So for example, here you can have two machines that are part of one availability zone.
And a baby zone is made up of multiple data centers.
If the entire zone were to go down, you will still have machines available in the other zones in the
these same Azure region again.
You'll be telling me, Alan, seriously, do we really need to consider building machines across different
zones?
I said, sometimes companies have these critical applications that generate revenue on a per second
basis, and every second that the infrastructure is down, the application is down.
They lose money.
So in such cases, companies do need to consider how do they make their applications highly available.
How do they make their infrastructure highly available?
Now again, when it comes on to using availability zones, there is no cost as such.
But there is a cost when it comes on to data transfer between a baby zones.
So if there is data being transferred across machines across a baby zones, then there is a data transfer
charge.
Let me go ahead and showcase how simple it is to go ahead and just deploy a machine as part of an availability
zone.

--- Lab - Availability Zones ---

Now in the chapter I briefly want to go through, how do you place a machine as part of an availability
zone in Azure?
It's actually quite a simple process.
If I go on to virtual machines and let me create a new machine here, I don't have any resources.
As part of my account, I'll select my existing resource group.
I'll quickly give a virtual machine name.
Now, in terms of the region, I'm going to choose central US for some reasons.
You know, again these are based on limitations as part of an Azure account.
You know, if you have just built the Azure account, if I try to deploy a machine in East US as part
of an overlay zone, it gives me an error.
It's saying that there are not enough compute units to actually deploy onto that particular region.
Hence I'm building my machine in central US.
Now, please note that your resource group can be in a different region in East US in our example and
the resource itself, a the virtual machine can be in another location.
This is possible.
As part of the available options, I will choose now an availability Zone.
We can choose a zone to deploy our machine to.
So this could be either zone one.
Zone two or zone three.
I'll leave it as zone one.
In terms of the image, I'll just choose Windows Server 2025.
Now, please note that we are not going to log on to the machines.
We just want to see, or I just want to showcase how simple it is to place a machine, a new machine,
as part of something known as an availability zone.
I'll leave these size hazardous.
Standard underscore underscore B3.
Sometimes if you choose a lower size again, you might get an error when trying to deploy the machine
onto a zone.
And I said I'm just doing a very quick deployment.
After this is done, I'm going to go ahead and delete all of my resources, go on to the disk networking,
let it build a new virtual network along with the subnet.
Don't need the public IP address.
Don't need an NSG or network security group.
I'll just go on to review and create because in the end, I just want to showcase how simple it is to
place a machine as part of a zone.
Once the validation has passed, I'll click on create.
So from an infrastructure perspective, all we're doing is we are building a VM.
We are placing it as part of zone one in the central US location.
Now obviously just having one VM with your application in just one zone doesn't make a difference.
If the entire zone goes down, then your VM is not available as an organization.
When you are hosting a critical application that needs redundancy at an infrastructure layer, it is
your responsibility to deploy multiple VMs with your application and deploy the VMs across different
zones.
We can deploy this VM onto zone two.
This VM onto zone three In this case.
Now, if zone one were to go down, you would still have the other zones available.
And that means you have your application also available on the other VMs itself.
Availability sets and a baby zones just gives you redundancy at an infrastructure layer.
It is still your responsibility to spin up multiple virtual machines, spread them across you know,
a baby zones, and also make sure it is your responsibility to make sure that the application gets set
up on each VM.
There are many ways that you can accomplish this.
So once the deployment is complete, quite simple.
If I go onto the virtual machine itself, you will see that it is running as part of a baby zone number
one.
We don't have to do anything.
I said, it's your responsibility to spin up multiple machines across the different zones and make sure
that your application is hosted on each machine accordingly.
Right now that we are done with this very simple demo, I'll go ahead and delete my resources.

--- Availability Zones Review ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Azure virtual machine scale sets ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the next series of chapters, we're going to go through a powerful service known as Azure Virtual
Machine Scale Sets.
But before that, I want to give you all a scenario.
Try and explain what's the purpose of this particular service.
Why do we need scale sets?
Let's say a company is running an e-commerce application on a VM.
It's a web application.
Users from the internet are using the application.
Now, over time, users might start to increase the amount of traffic coming in starts to increase,
and because of the load on the application, your machine might start running into memory issues or
CPU issues and your application starts getting performance bottlenecks, etc. what you can do is you
can perform the act of vertical scaling.
In vertical scaling, you can, as we know, resize the VM.
So for example, if you have a size at this point in time of two virtual CPUs and eight gigs of Ram,
you can choose another size that gives you a higher amount of virtual CPU and a higher amount of Ram.
You can implement this very easily.
The only problem is, at some point in time, the machine might need to restart in order to take this
higher configuration.
There is but a problem.
You know, if your load again continues to increase and increase, and you keep on trying to scale up
in terms of vertical scaling, you reach a point of diminishing returns wherein the size no longer has
kind of an impact on improving the performance.
You start paying more just for the size of the machine.
And I said every time you try to resize, there'll probably be a restart required on the machine itself.
In such a case, what you can do is you can look at the concept of horizontal scaling.
In horizontal scaling, you now add multiple VMs as part of your infrastructure.
On these VMs, you have your same web application running and now users, you know the traffic from
the users on the internet.
They can be distribute using something known as a load balancing service that we'll look at later on.
The traffic can be routed across these multiple VMs.
So now your traffic, your load can be different across multiple virtual machines.
It is your responsibility to make sure that you spin up these multiple VMs.
It is your responsibility to ensure that these VMs have your application in place.
But you can achieve better performance by the sort of horizontal scaling where you have multiple VMs.
But now the question arises, how do you manage the adding of these machines onto your architecture?
And why is this a concern?
Because in terms of user traffic, it's not always the same.
Maybe during the daytime it's at its peak, but during the nighttime the traffic decreases.
Let's say for example, at peak you have four machines running your web application as part of your
infrastructure.
Okay.
And at the night time, obviously the load has decreased.
And it only starts the next day.
What you have to understand, you know, from a company's perspective, is when you have more and more
machines running as part of your infrastructure, your cost is also increasing.
Remember, you're spending for the compute now of these machines.
You are spending for the underlying dis spending for other aspects.
When it comes onto the infrastructure itself, you need some way of making sure that during the peak
time, when the load is at its maximum, you have the adequate number of machines to handle the load.
Let's say for.
In this case, and during the night time, the load is less.
When the number of users are less, you can probably just have two machines running as part of your
skill set, these two machines running as part of your infrastructure.
So how are you going to manage this?
Are you going to have someone in the background that's going to monitor the infrastructure, see when
the load is increasing, then increase the number of machines.
When the load is decreasing again decrease the number of machines because you don't know at what point
in time what time is your peak.
It could be during different hours of the day.
This is where you can make use of virtual machine scale sets.
This service helps you to create and manage a group of load balanced virtual machines.
Here, the number of machines can grow based on demand or based on a schedule.
You define the scale set.
Within the scale set, you define rules.
These rules could be based on various factors.
For example, it could be based on the CPU utilization of the underlying VMs.
You can say that if the CPU utilization of the underlying VMs is going beyond a particular threshold,
go ahead and add another machine onto the infrastructure.
All of this can be managed automatically with the help of a virtual machine scale set.
So this is the underlying the underpinning feature of the scale set.
The entire idea is it should on its own, be able to manage why the use of rules, the machines that
are running as part of your application infrastructure.
So again, this is useful for those scenarios wherein you have kind of a critical application that needs
to run on a set of machines.
And this is because you have user load coming in, but because the user load can vary during different
times of the day and the night, you need variant.
You need varying workloads.
You need varying number of machines to run as part of your infrastructure.
You want to automatically manage the number of machines you can make use of a scale set.
So now in the next set of chapters, let's look at an example on implementing virtual machine scale
sets.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets ---

Right?
So in the next set of chapters, let's see how we can work with the virtual Machine scale set service
here in all resources.
I'll click on create.
So let's create first a resource based on the scale set service.
I'll search for virtual Machine scale set in Azure.
For this particular service I'll create a new resource.
We'll again get a wizard.
We need to configure the different aspects about our scale set.
Let me create a new resource group.
I'll click on okay.
Give a simple name for the scale set.
I'll leave it in East US.
No availability zones.
We have two types of orchestration modes.
We have flexible and we have uniform.
I'm going to choose uniform at this point in time when it comes onto our scale sets the main core differences
between these two oxidation modes are when we choose uniform as the orchestration mode.
So we're going to have the virtual machine scale set that's going to internally manage all of the VMs.
Remember, the entire purpose of a scale set is to have multiple virtual machines as part of its configuration.
As part of your application infrastructure, the VMs will be managed by the scale set itself.
All of them will be of uniform nature.
That means they'll be of the same type if we choose flexible in terms of orchestration mode.
Here the VMs are managed separately.
Apart from the scale set, and you could have either identical or multiple virtual machine types.
So this can be managed separately and you can manage scale set separately.
To understand this better, let's try out first the uniform oxidation mode in terms of the scale set.
Scroll down something known as a scaling mode.
At the moment our manual scaling and just say let's create only one instance.
So we're going to have one VM now running as part of the scale set.
Now we decide what type of machine is going to run as part of the scale set.
I'm going to say that each machine that comes up as part of the scale set will be based on Ubuntu Server
24.0.
For each machine, the size will be standard underscore b-1s.
So a lot of aspects that are similar onto creating a VM here is giving the specifications of the VM
that's going to be automatically built by the scale set.
To make things simple, I'll choose password, give a username.
And password accordingly.
Click on next.
I don't need to make use of Azure Spot virtual machines.
I'll go on to next.
Each VM as part of the scale set will get a default OS level disk.
Go on networking.
As usual, machines need to be part of a virtual network.
Hence, this wizard will create a new virtual network for us.
Since I don't have one in this particular region right now, it will create a new subnet.
Now each VM will have its own network interface, but the settings of the network interface, you know,
there's only one setting defined here.
See, we are trying to spin up identical virtual machines as part of the scale set.
So all of these machines are going to have identical settings.
Hence we have just one kind of network interface setting.
I said internally you will have multiple network interfaces, but at this point in time you can only
kind of define that overall setting for the network interface itself.
Now here I'm going to click on the Edit Network interface button.
Because I do want to make some slight changes.
I'll scroll down and I'll say let me allow selected ports.
Let me choose a secure shell so that we can securely connect onto each VM in the scale set.
If you have, let's say a web server running, you can also allow traffic on port 80.
And I'll also say let's enable a public IP address.
So I'm saying that each machine has part of my scale set will get its own public IP address.
I'll click on okay.
Normally the scenario is you would not assign a public IP address on each machine.
You would normally have some sort of load balancing solution sitting in front of the machines in the
scale set.
But at this point in time, we are only trying to understand the workings of the scale set.
So I'm keeping it simple.
I'm telling the scale set okay, you manage the machines.
Each machine is based on Ubuntu Server.
Each machine has its size.
For each machine, the network interface is going to have these settings.
And one of the settings is you.
Please assign a public IP address onto each and every machine in the scale set.
There are some other aspects in place.
Management.
I'll leave it as it is.
Health I'll leave it as it is.
Let's go on to review and create and create the scale set.
So I'll go ahead and click on create.
Now let's mark it in order this chapter.
Let's come back once we have the scale set in place.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set - Scale out ---

I've come back.
The deployment is complete.
We can go on to the scale set resource itself.
If I go on to instances, we can see one instance or one machine running as part of the scale set.
Currently we don't have any sort of application.
We don't have any workload running on the machine itself.
It's just one machine based on Ubuntu Server, based on our size, that's running as part of the scale
set itself.
If I go onto this instance so we can drill into the instance itself, you will see that this instance
gets its own instance ID that we can see here.
It's running in East US.
We can see the skew in terms of the size of the VM, the private IP address based on the virtual network
and its public IP address.
So it has got its own public IP address accordingly.
Going back onto the scale set, we have different aspects in terms of networking in terms of settings,
in terms of availability and scale.
Before we can add a scaling condition, just to see the scaling aspect of the scale, set itself in
another tab in all resources, let me click on refresh to get the new view of what we have currently
as part of our account.
So as part of our account we have the scale set.
We have the virtual network.
We have the network security group.
But I can't see any machines I can't see a VM.
So as part of the uniform orchestration mode, the VMs are managed internally as part of the scale set.
I can't see a VM resource here.
I can't see a network interface resource here.
I can't see the public.
I can't see the public IP address.
These are all managed internally as part of the scale set.
said.
Okay, now let's look at an example on scaling our infrastructure.
The way that we scale our infrastructure is we have to go on to availability and scale.
Click on the scaling option.
And what we can do here is we can go ahead and just hide this.
I could perform a manual scale wherein at this point in time I can scale on to three machines.
That means now the scale set will provision two machines as part of our scale set.
Or we could perform a custom auto scale.
In custom auto scale.
We can add rules.
Scaling rules.
Currently we have a default condition in place.
We can add rules to this default condition.
During this default condition again I could scale to a specific instance count, or I could scale based
on a metric.
When I create a scale based on a metric, I can specify what should be the minimum, the maximum, and
the default number of instances.
So let's say as part of my scale set, I want to have a minimum of at least one instance running as
part of my skill set and a maximum of just three.
So even though I have a scaling condition that could trigger many machines based on the rules, but
I just want to have, you know, based on my, let's say, costing limit, based on my budget, I can
only have three machines running as part of my scale set at any point in time.
Now we need to add a rule.
So we can add a rule here.
So we have to tell the scale set based on what condition.
Based on what metric.
Based on what threshold should we scale your infrastructure.
So I'll say let's add a rule.
So now we're adding a scaling rule.
The scaling rule will look at the various metrics being emitted from another service known as the Azure
Monitoring Service.
So the Azure Monitoring Service is monitoring your entire infrastructure.
Here it is returning to you.
What is the current percentage CPU in terms of your virtual machine host in terms of percentage CPU?
We can't see much happening because there's nothing running on the instance as part of our scale set.
We can scroll down and we can now define the rule.
So we can say that if the CPU percentage is greater than 70% for the last ten minutes, we're looking
at the average CPU percentage, then increase the count of the machines in our scale set by one and
something known as a cooldown in minutes.
I'll explain a little bit later on.
So what we can do is we can add a rule.
We can say now that if the CPU percentage of the underlying virtual machine host is going beyond 70%,
which at this point in time doesn't seem feasible because our current CPU percentage is only 0.5, as
there's nothing running on the machine for the last ten minutes, then make sure to increase the count.
Here we have different options.
We can increase by a percentage.
We can directly increase the count to, or we can decrease as well.
Let me go ahead and click on add.
So we've added kind of a scaling out rule to scale out our infrastructure.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
We now have this scaling rule in place.
I'll go back onto my skill set.
Let's let us go on to the instances.
I'll go onto the instance itself and let's connect using Secure Shell onto the public IP address.
I'll just open up command prompt.
I will connect as the Linux admin because I put that as a username.
Put in my password.
See what I'm gonna do is I'm going to install a tool known as stress that can put some sort of virtual
stress on the machine.
So for this let me first update the package index.
Then I'll issue the command to install that particular tool.
So it's install C because I want to induce some sort of stress on this machine to put the CPU percentage
above that threshold so that the rule will take effect.
And then it should add an instance or multiple instances or to our scale set.
So I'm just installing this tool.
Once we have the tool in place I'm going to run command to induce that artificial stress on the server.
So I will run that tool.
And induce that artificial stress.
Now let's see if this does make a difference.
If this does change our scale set in any way.
Remember that we need to wait.
Here we put the condition that if the average CPU percentage is going beyond 70% over the last ten minutes,
so we have to wait for at least ten minutes to see any impact it will have on the scale set.
So what we'll do is let's actually go ahead and mark it in onto this chapter.
Let me come back after some time and let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set - Understanding the scaling process ---

Come back after some time for my skill set.
If I go on to the instances.
All right.
Now I can see I have two machines running as part of my skill set.
If you go on to the overview under the monitoring section of the skill set, we can see that the CPU
utilization is giving us a graph of the CPU utilization over time.
And we can definitely see that the CPU utilization is going beyond 70%.
Hence, the rule must have been triggered.
And now we have two machines running as part of our skill set.
If I go on to the scaling policy, you can go on to the run history to look at the events that are occurring
as part of the scale set.
So I can see that the scale up activity launched about three minutes ago.
I see this was based on the scale set.
Looking at the capitalization of the underlying virtual machine host.
Now that we have two machines running as part of the scale set.
The skill set is going to look at the average CPU utilization.
Remember, at the host level, that means it'll be the combined CPU now of both of these machines.
If the combined CPU of both of these machines again goes beyond 70%, then the scale set will add another
machine.
But then based on our limit of a maximum of three, we will only have three machines running as part
of the scale set.
If I go on to the instances again, if I go on to the second instance here also I should see a public
IP address.
Now I want to quickly go through how we can apply custom script extensions Sections onto our scale sets
onto the machines.
Remember, we had already seen this concept earlier on when it came onto a single virtual machine.
I'd shown you how we can apply custom script extensions to automatically install via a script.
Internet Information Services on a windows based server and nginx on a Linux based machine.
Let's quickly explore this similar concept here as well.
What I've done is within all resources.
By the way, when you click on refresh, you can see that we cannot see again any machines as part of
the scale set here in this view.
Everything is managed by the scale set itself.
What I've gone ahead and done is I've spun up a new Azure storage account since I don't have one here.
If I go on to containers, I create a scripts container.
Within the scripts container I have a file, basically an object.
It's a script.
Basically, the script is similar to what we I had seen earlier on, wherein we are first updating the
package index.
I am installing nginx here.
The only difference is I am taking the underlying host name and then just putting the host name as part
of HTML.
So I'm just having again a simple HTML page in place in slash var slash slash HTML.
I'm just taking the name of the instance and also adding it as part of the HTML page.
So how do we apply this going on to the scale set?
Under settings we have to go on to extensions and applications.
We can again add an extension.
I'll search for custom script for Linux.
Select this extension.
Click on next.
I'll browse for the script file in the container.
In the storage account, click on select.
Make sure that these same name is here.
Click on create.
First it will just initialize the deployment of the custom script extension, but it will not apply
it in order to apply it.
We need to perform another step.
So here what we have to understand is we have no machines running as part of the scale set.
If you need to apply an update, there are different mechanisms in applying updates.
If you try to apply updates to I mean just imagine in production, if you apply updates to all machines
at the same time, let's say the update breaks the application.
It's a problem, right?
So what you can do is you can perform rolling deployment.
So different types of deployments that you can actually apply for your infrastructure.
That's why when we apply this custom script extension at this point in time, based on a configuration
setting in the scale set, it is not automatically applying the update.
We have to manually tell now the scale set.
What are the changes we are applying.
Please now make those changes onto the machines in the scale set.
So what is done is this is just kind of applied that extension.
That's it.
But not deploy the script.
I have to go back onto the virtual machine scale set.
I have to go onto my instances.
So now I can see I have three machines running as part of the scale set.
I'll select all my three machines.
I have to click on upgrade.
So now it will tell the scale set if there were any changes made onto the or any intended changes to
be made onto the machines in the scale set.
Please do it now.
And it should now perform the act of applying the script on each and every machine.
If I just go back onto scaling, go on to the run history quickly.
So let's try to understand the scaling actions that have occurred on the scale set.
We can see that the first scale happened at 1054.
So at 1054 it understood that over the last ten minutes.
So let's say we started the stress tool at about let's say 1040.
So over the last ten minutes, it has understood that the CPU utilization is above 70%.
So it added one instance to the scale set.
We now have two now at 1055.
Okay.
The monitoring utility will still detect that over the last ten minutes.
So from 1045 to 1055.
Yes.
Even during this duration.
Right.
Because during this duration, the CPU was above 70%.
Hence, even after a minute or so, the CPU might be still above 70%.
At that point in time, it would actually trigger another scaling action.
So at 1055 or so, it might have added one more machine onto the scale set, but it didn't do that.
The next scaling activity occurred at 11.
So after six minutes why is this the case.
So there is a certain configuration known as cooldown that was present in the scaling condition, the
scaling rule.
Sorry, by default that was five minutes.
What this does is it tells the scale set.
After you perform a scaling activity, wait for five minutes.
Give some time for the new machine to adapt to the infrastructure.
Wait for some time for requests from the users to come in to be displayed across the new machines,
right in your scale set before you can perform the scaling activity.
Then, at 11, after six minutes again took the average CPU utilization over the last ten minutes.
So this was from 1050 to 11.
It found out that even though we added the second instance, still overall the CPU utilization was above
70%.
So it added another instance onto the scale set itself.
So this is a kind of a quick view on how the scaling occurs when it comes onto the scale set.
Let's see.
So it is saying that it has upgraded all of the machines on the scale set.
Let me go on to the instances.
Let me go on to the first one.
I'll take the public IP address.
So now if I just go onto the IP address of the machine in a new browser tab, we can see the page,
the HTML page coming up, and the name of the VM instance.
In this chapter, I want to showcase how we can apply custom script extensions.
And in addition to that, we also kind of understood how the scaling occurs when it comes onto the scale
set.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set - Scale in ---

Now.
In the prior chapters, we had seen how to apply scaling onto our scale set.
We have seen how scale out increase the number of machines in our scale set.
But we have to understand that from a company's aspect, when the load comes down, we should not have
so many machines running as part of our scale.
So even another machine should come down.
We should be able to scale in.
Well, we can't do that if we go on to our scale set and go on to scaling.
So currently we have one rule that is designed to scale out our infrastructure based on the CPU percentage
metric.
Let's add another rule.
Now please note that when you define rules.
So we have defined one based on the CPU percentage.
But there are other metrics in place.
So you could base your rules based on another metric coming in for the virtual machine host.
And what we can see is the average CPU percentage is coming down at the host level, because now we
have multiple machines.
It's only one machine where we applied the stress.
So the CPU percentage on that machine must be high.
But if we're looking at the aggregate of all three machines, the other two machines have nothing running
on them.
So if we look at the overall trend of CPU, it's somewhere around 40%.
So now we can define another rule.
I can see if the CPU percentage is less than.
Let's put this as 50% for now.
Let's see if it works.
So less than 50% over the duration of.
Let's just press five minutes for now.
Then let's decrease.
Let's decrease the count by one instance with the same cooldown.
Let me click on add.
So now we have two metrics one metric to scale out, another rule to scale in.
Let me go ahead and click on save.
And I'll wait for some time and then come back.
When I come back after some time, I can see that one instance has now decreased as part of my scale
set.
So similar to the scaling out conditions that we can have the scaling out rules, we can also scale
in our infrastructure.
Now that we are done with working with the scale set when it comes to the uniform orchestration, I'll
go ahead and delete my resources.
So I'll just go onto all resources and delete them accordingly, even the storage account.
We'll just look at a very simple example now in the next chapter when it comes on flexible orchestration.
Again the concept of scaling is the same.
It's only the way that we manage the VMs as part of the scale set.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets - Flexible Orchestration Mode ---

In this chapter, I just briefly want to go through how we can create a virtual machine scale set based
on the flexible orchestration mode.
So far, we have looked at the uniform oxidation mode, where in the virtual machines are managed by
the scale set itself.
Secondly, all of the machines will be of uniform configuration.
But I quickly showcase what I want to quickly showcase how we can create now a virtual machine scale
set based on the flexible orchestration mode.
In the wizard I'll select my existing resource group.
I'll just give a name for the scale set in East US, this time in the mode I'll choose flexible.
Scroll down.
Let me just have initially one instance running as part of the scale set.
So in the end, remember this is still a scale set of machines.
You will add scaling conditions to manage the machines accordingly.
I'll scroll down in the image.
Let me choose Ubuntu Server.
There's something known as selecting now sizes.
For the machines.
We can select up to five sizes.
I'll go on to B-series and select the size of B1.
Miss B to miss and B to S click on select.
Now there's something known as an allocation strategy.
So this is something a little bit different.
We didn't see this in the uniform oxidation mode.
So what does this mean.
When the virtual machine scale set starts to create VMs as part of the scale set itself.
When it comes onto the virtual machine size we have selected at the moment up to four sizes for the
VM.
If we look at what options are available here in the allocation strategy.
So we have the lowest price, optimize on capacity or prioritize the size.
If we choose lower size, what the scale set will do is it will pick the cheapest allowed size first.
That means that if you look at all of the sizes available here, it will prioritize taking the cheapest
one and then building a VM.
So if it needs to build another VM as part of the scale set, it will look at choosing the lowest size
for the VM.
This is the lowest price option when it comes onto the allocation strategy.
Then we have something known as optimize capacity.
Has the allocation strategy Your, uh, the skill set.
We look at a size that has the highest chance of being available in a particular region.
So you have to understand that just because we choose a size for a VM, it does not mean that the size
is automatically available in the region itself.
You have to understand that there are so many customers around the world that are building machines
based on various sizes.
Obviously, Azure needs to have the capacity in place for a particular size for your VM.
And when you're building multiple machines as part of a scale set the scale set.
We look at that allocation strategy.
If you are looking at optimizing capacity you need to have capacity in place for your machines.
Then the scale set will choose a size that has the highest chance of being available in the particular
region.
We have the other strategy of prioritizing sizes.
Your sizes are ranked.
This is kind of a combination of.
The lowest price and and optimizing capacity.
So for us what I'll do is I'll select the strategy of the lowest price.
I'll scroll down.
Let me just put in the authentication type has password for now.
Go to next I won't change any of the aspects in the subsequent screens.
We are not going to, you know kind of log on to the machines.
We are not going to perform any sort of scaling, whatever are the concepts when it comes onto a virtual
machine scale set in terms of scaling out, in terms of scaling in, in terms of adding scaling rules,
it's all the same whether you choose the uniform or the flexible orchestration mode.
The main difference between these modes are the way that the machines are managed.
Inflexible.
We can manage the individual virtual machines.
We can have different sizes for each machine.
You know, when it comes onto the scale set.
And we can also add our own machine onto the scale set.
So there are some differences when it comes onto the virtual machines.
But in terms of the scaling policies everything remains the same.
Hence I won't change anything here.
I'll go on to review and create directly.
And let's create the virtual machine scale set.
Right.
Let's come back once we have the scale set in place.
Now once the deployment is complete of the scale set, if I go on to the instances so we can see one
instance running as part of the scale set.
Nothing different.
But if I go onto all resources What you'll notice is in addition to the scale set, I can see the virtual
machine itself, the OS level disk, the network interface.
Now the core difference is when we looked at the uniform oxidation mode, we could not see resources
for the individual VMs.
But now we can see those machines because these are now managed separately.
Yes, they are part of the virtual machine scale set.
They are managed by the scale set.
But we can also manage those machines individually as well.
The other thing is I can go on to virtual machines.
Let me create a new VM.
But as part of the same resource group.
In the same region has my virtual machine scale set this time under a vary baby options are.
Choose that virtual machine scale set.
I can now choose that scale set itself.
Leave the settings as they are in terms of the size.
We can choose any size for the VM.
It does not need to be part of those four sizes that we chose.
You know as part of the scale set that's different.
Those sizes are only for those machines that are spun up by the scale set.
Here we are ourselves separately creating a new virtual machine so we can choose any size.
Again put password.
This networking.
It will be part of that subnet.
Just for now.
I won't select any public IP address and no NSG.
I'll directly go on to review and create and let's create this machine.
Once the validation is complete, I'll click on create.
Let's wait till we have the virtual machine in place.
Now, once the deployment is complete, if I go on all resources, I should see my new virtual machine
in place.
But if I go on to the scale set, go on to the instances we can see that this instance, this new instance
that we spun up is now part of the scale set as well.
In this chapter, I just want to kind of give that main difference when it comes onto a scale set of
the flexible orchestration mode.
Here we have to understand that the virtual machines can be managed separately from the scale set.
Okay, now that we're done, I'll delete all of my resources.

--- Introduction onto Azure Web Apps ---

Hi and a warm welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters, we are going to touch upon the Azure Web App Service to understand
the Azure Web App Service.
Let's take a step back.
When we looked at hosting a web server.
So let's say we want to host a web application on Azure.
What we would normally do is we would spin up a virtual machine within a virtual network.
Then remember the underlying physical infrastructure is managed for you.
Then on that VM you would install a web server.
If it was windows, you might opt for installing internet information services.
If it's a Linux distribution, you might opt for using nginx as the web server, and then you'd host
your web application.
So when it comes onto VMs, remember that the underlying physical infrastructure is managed for you.
But sometimes companies want a more easier approach to managing their infrastructure.
Sure they don't want to even manage the underlying VM.
In this case, they can opt for using something known as Azure Web App Service.
The Azure Web App Service is a platform as a service here.
It's not only the underlying physical infrastructure that's managed for you, it's also the underlying
virtual infrastructure, the virtual machines.
All you have to do is to create a resource based on the Azure Web App service and then upload your web
application code, and then you have a web site running in a matter of minutes.
And here the underlying virtual machine infrastructure is also managed for you.
So sometimes companies don't want that burden of managing the VM, the public IP address, the network
security group, the virtual network, so on and so forth.
Because there's a lot of work, right?
There's a lot of maintenance work when it comes on to a VM.
OBM.
Yes, the physical infrastructure is managed for you, but you are responsible for the VM itself.
You are responsible for installing the web server.
You are responsible for updating the web server.
You are responsible for installing security patches on the VM itself.
It's your job, right?
So sometimes companies have a numerous number of applications and they don't want to manage even that
virtual infrastructure.
In that case they can make use of Azure Web apps with Azure Web Apps.
It's a platform as a service.
You're even the compute infrastructure is managed for you.
When it comes to Azure Web apps, there is support for dotnet, Java, Node.js, PHP, Python.
Here, the patching of the underlying framework.
The operating system is managed by the service itself.
It also has features such as high availability.
So if you have a web application that fits this framework, or you could also have your application
has a Docker based container that will also run with Azure Web Apps.
So if you have an application that fits this portfolio, you can make use of Azure Web Apps.
If you instead you know if you need to make a decision as to whether to use Azure Web apps or virtual
machines.
If you have a custom application that you bought from another vendor, you don't have the source code.
You will need to install it on some sort of compute infrastructure.
At that point in time, you can decide on using a virtual machine instead of an Azure Web app.
If you have the application code, if you can package everything within a Docker container, or just
publish the code as it is, then you can opt for using Azure Web Apps.
If you need full control over the compute infrastructure, that's one thing.
Or if you don't have the source code and you just need to install the application the software, then
you might offer using virtual machines.
This is just a quick introduction onto Azure Web App Service.
Let's move on to the subsequent chapters wherein let's look at how we can make use of the service.

--- Lab - Azure Web Apps ---

I am in my Azure account.
Let's go ahead and start using Azure Web App Service.
For this, we need to create a resource based on the Web App service itself.
Here in all resources let me click on create.
Now under the popular Azure services I can already see web app in place.
Hence I'll click on create to create a new instance of this particular service.
Again, we are presented with a wizard in which we can go ahead with the deployment of the web app resource.
I don't have a resource group as such.
I just have the Network Watcher one.
So let's go ahead and create a new resource group.
Now at this point in time, let's start using some standards when it comes onto naming our resources.
I'm just giving some examples here when it comes onto the naming pattern for a resource group.
We can start with RG just to indicate that this is a resource group itself.
Then you could give either the name of your organization, the name of your application, the name of
your workload.
So this has an example.
As an example I'll give a name of an application Cloud hub learning.
Then we can give probably the name of the environment.
You know within an organization you can have a dev environment, you can have a staging, you can have
a test, you can have a production.
Let's say this is part of a dev environment, this entire resource group.
And you can give the region of the resource group itself.
If I'm keeping my resources in East US, I can go ahead and give this sort of prefix.
And we have kind of a name in place now for our resource group.
I'll click on okay.
Next we need to give a name for our Azure Web app.
We can go on the same lines.
Yep.
Let me say that.
What is the name of my application?
What is our environment?
Let's say.
Again dev.
And the location.
Now, this point in time, I don't want to secure a unique default hostname.
So the hostname for my application is going to be the name of the web app itself.
And it will be appended with dot Azurewebsites.
Net.
What you'll see here in terms of the publish option, we can directly publish our code onto the Azure
Web app.
Or if we have a Docker based container, a Docker based image, sorry, we can run it as a container
within the Azure Web app.
For now, I'll choose code.
We then have the different runtime stacks for Azure Web Apps.
That is support for DotNet.
There is support for Java there, support for Node.js there, support for PHP and Python.
As an example, let me choose PHP 8.4.
We have the underlying OS, which is Linux.
Windows is currently disabled.
It's not supported for PHP.
Then we have to select our region.
Let me select the region has east us.
And then we have something known has a pricing plan.
The way that Azure Web Apps is priced is a little bit different when it comes onto your virtual machines.
There you are charged based on aspects that is the compute, right?
The running time of compute your public IP addresses, your uh, disks which are assigned onto the virtual
networks, your disk, which are assigned onto the virtual machines.
When it comes onto pricing for Azure Web Apps, UPS, it is linked onto something known as an App Service
plan.
This wizard is going to create two resources.
One is the web app itself and the other is the App Service plan.
The App Service plan has different SKUs, different pricing tiers based on the pricing tier that you
choose.
Based on the plan that you choose, you will get certain features in place and there'll be a pricing
model.
It's creating a new app service plan if you want to can change the name, but you can leave it as it
is as well.
Let me explore the pricing plans.
So this is known as the App Service Pricing plan.
Note that if you're using the Azure Free account, I believe in the first 30 days of your account,
when you're using the free credit, you'll only have access to the free plan.
This could be the case.
That's fine for us at this point in time, just to see how to make use of the Azure Web App Service.
This will work.
So we have different plans in place.
We have the free plan, the basic we have something known as premium.
If you scroll even further down we have the legacy plans.
So for us the free plan for now is good enough.
I'll click on select.
So what we've done so far is we have chosen our oh sorry.
We have created a new resource group.
We have given a name for the Azure Web app.
We have chosen code as the publish option.
We have the runtime stack.
We have the underlying OS, the region.
We are creating something known as an app service plan.
I'll go on to next for database.
So there is an option to actually couple this with a database.
But at this point in time, just to keep things simple, I won't have a database in place.
Replace under deployment, we can have continuous deployment in place where in our code can come in
from, let's say GitHub, and we can automatically publish changes of our application onto Azure Web
apps.
Not required for now.
Networking.
Enable public access.
Monitor and secure your you know it would go ahead and try to create something known as a new resource
known as Application Insights.
But I believe with the free tier it will not create anything.
Let's wait.
We don't need it at this point in time.
We're not enabling application insights.
Application insights is used for performance monitoring not required at this point in time.
Let me go on to review and create and let's click on create.
So just to give you an understanding right let it go on to deployment and then we'll move on to the
next chapter.
Now I'm getting a deployment failed.
Let's look at what is the error message from here.
It's saying that the quota exceeded for zero VM's one is requested.
See, when it comes on to the Azure Web App Service, we need underlying compute capacity.
Apparently for the account.
We are not able to create this in the east US location.
That's fine.
Let's try to choose another location.
What I'll do is I'll go back onto the basics screen.
Let me try another location.
Let's try central us.
I just need to make sure that I can choose the free plan.
Let's try this again.
Go on to review and create and see if we can create our Azure Web app.
Sometimes it all goes on to trying out different regions over time.
In the past, they used to not be so many restrictions on creating resources in different regions.
But obviously, since there are so many people now using the cloud platform, Microsoft themselves has
to ensure that they have the right infrastructure in place.
That's why they sometimes place restrictions on free accounts.
But now we can see that the deployment is in progress.
Now note that I changed the region, but the naming of our resources does not reflect the new region.
I do not change it, but I just give you an example of a naming convention for resources.
If you are changing the region and if you want to align the naming with the region itself, go ahead
and change the names accordingly.
But now I can see my deployment is complete.
Let's go ahead and mark an end to this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Making simple changes to the Web App ---

In this chapter, I just want to go through how you can deploy a simple or just create an HTML file
as part of your web app.
See, now you have to understand that you can deploy your web application onto this Azure Web app.
Remember that the underlying language that's used by your web application needs to be based on dotnet,
because we chose dotnet as the underlying language for the web app resource.
And what this means is in the background, you'll have some compute infrastructure in place.
That compute infrastructure, that machine will have a web server in place, like internet information
services based on a windows based machine.
And also DotNet will be installed whatever is required for hosting a web application based on dotnet
eight.
In this chapter, even though at the moment I am not deploying any sort of dotnet application, we can
host a simple HTML page.
If you go on to the web app on to development tools, we can click on the App Service Editor.
And open the editor to open up a new tab.
Here we can see the underlying files within the root folder.
Remember, this is the folder that gets created when you have internet information services in place.
So I told you in the background you're going to have the IIs web server installed on a windows based
compute machine.
I can right click and create a new file.
I can name this as default dot HTML.
And we can just add some simple text here.
So I'll say this is a web application.
Within a simple header tag.
It should save the file automatically.
If I now refresh this page I can now see the default dot HTML file showing up.
So in this chapter quickly I want to showcase how we can host a simple HTML file as part of our web
application.

--- Lab - Azure Web Apps - Adding a simple web application ---

Right?
So in this chapter, I told you I want to showcase how we can have a simple PHP page deployed as part
of our web app.
So currently we just have some kind of default page that's coming up as part of the web app itself.
But obviously we have based our web app on the PHP framework.
So in the background, I told you there'll be some sort of compute infrastructure based on Linux that
already has PHP installed, the runtime, whatever is required for running a PHP based application.
I want to showcase a very simple example.
Please note that this is not the approach when it comes on to publishing your code onto the web application.
The standard way is you'll have a development team that would have the application in place, right.
They would develop the application.
Then they would probably publish it onto a site, a version control platform that's based on git.
And if you want to have continuous integration and deployment in place, your environment, your web
app environment would take take the code from that git based repository, right?
It would create a build and it would publish it automatically.
That's one way or the other way is the development team creates a build for you for the application
and then you deploy it.
So different ways of publishing an application onto an environment since we are, you know, working
from an administrative perspective and I don't want to go too much into development code as such, we
do need to I have to show code examples during this course because it is required to understand, okay,
how do we publish code?
But as far as possible, I'm trying to make it simple, you know, because I just want to I understand
that you all are All our students are more from probably an admin background rather than a development
background, but it's good to understand how to publish code, right?
How do we publish applications?
So I want to showcase a very simple example.
I said not the recommended approach, but still feasible.
Okay.
Going on to my Azure Web app.
Okay I want to search for.
Okay.
If I go on to development tools let me go on to SSH.
This actually gives us a web base secure shell console interface onto the underlying compute environment
that's hosting our web application.
So we don't have control over the underlying compute.
We can't um, you know we don't have full admin permissions.
But what we can do is we can at least secure shell onto the underlying environment itself.
If I just do a listing so I can see some files in place.
Now here I'm going to go on to the directory of slash home site root.
This is the folder that will serve web content.
When it comes on to PHP and whatever web infrastructure is there for the PHP web application.
I'm going to create a simple index.php page, so I'll use the nano editor.
To create one simple index dot php file.
So we are in the nano editor I have code.
I will definitely share this code as well.
Let me right click and paste the code here.
I'm just echoing content HTML content but within PHP.
So this is PHP code.
But what I'm doing is I'm keeping it very simple in order to save this file.
First of all, do a control O on your keyboard.
Hit on enter.
This is done.
It has saved the file.
To exit from the nano editor, do control X on your keyboard.
Just to confirm that you do have the file in place, you can do a listing.
So we do have the index dot php file in place.
Use a more command just to confirm that you have.
The code in place, right.
It's there.
I'll hit on control X on control Z on my keyboard to exit.
So now we have this kind of simple file in place.
Let me go on to.
My web application.
Let me do a slash index dot PHP and I'm just getting that PHP base page again.
Nothing fancy, nothing great.
Not the best way, but has an admin.
Now you all need to understand that you have now a manage environment that you can use for hosting your
PHP based applications.
And actually you could have you could create a web app based on Java.
You can have a web app based on dotnet.
You will have your development team that would create a build of the application and give it to you.
As an admin has an admin.
You then deploy the build of the application.
That's one way.
Or you could have a continuous integration and deployment pipeline where in the code is coming in from
a version control system, it's being built and then coming in onto the web app itself.
In this chapter, I want to give kind of that simple demo on hosting code now within the web app itself.

--- Azure Web Apps - Deployment Slots ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give an introduction onto a feature known as deployment slots.
Before we actually go on to understanding deployment slots, let's go through very basic scenario that
leads us on to why is a feature of deployment slots so relevant when it comes on to deploying newer
versions of your application?
So obviously I'd shown you in the last chapter a simple PHP page as part of the Azure Web app.
I told you, imagine that you have your development teams who have bundled the entire application code.
They give it to you as an admin, and then you publish that code onto the Azure Web app.
Now, obviously, application code goes through a lot of changes.
You would have new features being added on to the web application, you could have bug fixes, etc.
hence you will have multiple revisions, multiple versions of the application.
We all know that Taking newer versions of applications, and directly putting them or pushing them onto
production is a risky affair at any point in time.
The application code could break, it could break the application, and users will not be able to use
it.
You get bad reviews.
So there's always a cycle that needs to be maintained when it comes on to deploying newer versions of
the application.
You first would want to test the new version to make sure that it is working as expected.
If it is working as expected, then you can push that new version onto production.
How does deployment slots help us in this regard?
So let's say that we have version one of your application running on the Azure Web app.
This is your main application.
Users are using this application.
We have now a new revision.
We want to push that new revision onto the Azure Web app, the production.
But before that, we want to test that version.
Azure Web Apps has this feature known as deployment slots.
What you can do is you can create a new slot.
You can give it a name, let's say staging.
You can publish the newer version of your application onto the slot.
The slot is like an additional web app.
You can actually deploy the newer version of your code onto this web app itself.
So now you have your main application running as part of something known now as a production slot,
and you can have newer versions of your application that need to be tested, published on this new web
app on this new slot.
Now, in order to make use of deployment slots, we have to bump up the SKU of our App Service plan.
Deployment slots are only available with the standard App Service plan or higher, so for the first
step will be to upgrade our App Service plan.
We'll upgrade it onto the standard.
Once we do that, we can add a deployment slot, then we can publish a newer version of our application.
And then we have another feature available as part of deployment slots.
Once the testing of our newer version is complete, we can perform a simple swap.
So the code running in our slot can be swapped out with our production code, and the production code
would come onto our staging slot onto our deployment slot.
Then you would have the newer version of your application running in the production slot in the Azure
Web app.
The benefit of this is it's an easy switch.
The other benefit is you can roll back easily.
So by chance, in case if the newer version is broken, it's not working in the production web app,
you can do a swap again.
So you can take the prior working version of your application from the deployment slot, move it back
into production, and move the newer version back onto the slot.
So this is the benefit of using deployment slots.
Let's look at a simple example on this in the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Web Apps - Deployment Slots ---

Right.
So in this chapter let's make use of deployment slots.
For this I told you the first step is we need to upgrade our app service plan.
So for this I can go on app service plan.
Right I'm in my web app resource.
There are two options scale up and scale out.
We have to choose on scale up because we want to scale up our App Service plan.
Scale out will currently not be available.
Scale out means we want to scale the number of machines as part of our App Service plan, but we don't
have that feature as of yet.
That feature scaling out again is only enabled or available from the standard App Service plan or higher.
Now here I'm going to choose standard because Deployment Slots is available with the standard App Service
plan or higher.
Now, if you're using the Azure Free account for the first 30 days, you might not have this feature
or this ability to upgrade to the standard App Service plan or higher.
If you can't, don't worry.
But please go through this video on how we enable this entire process, because this is very important
from an exam perspective with standard S1.
What you'll see is we get so we have this virtual CPUs and the memory.
This is not applicable for the free app service plan because now what's happening is you are going to
get dedicated virtual machines.
Each machine will have one virtual CPU and 1.75 gigs of memory.
If you choose standard S2, each machine will get two virtual CPUs and 3.5 gigs of memory.
In the end, has an admin understand that the infrastructure is managed by Azure themselves, right?
But you are given the facility to choose the underlying hardware configurations of the machines based
on what is available.
What you notice is the pricing.
We have the cost per R per instance, the cost per R per instance, and the cost per month per instance.
So the cost per r per instance is 0.095 USD.
The cost per month is 69.
Remember again, at this point in time you will not be charged the 69 USD.
Right now itself.
You are charged based on how much you use.
If you use it for only ten minutes, you'll only be charged for ten minutes.
So you can imagine this is per hour, right?
And we'll only be using it for.
I said, let's say you're using it only for 10 to 20 minutes.
You'll only be charged for that particular amount of time.
So I need to upgrade.
First of all, my app service plan I'll click on upgrade.
And once this is done, then we can start making use of deployment slots.
The upgrade process is complete.
Now, what I'll do is I'll go on to deployment slots under deployment for the Azure Web app itself.
And now we have the ability to add something known as a slot.
If you try to go to this page, if your app service plan is part of the free App Service plan, you
will not be able to add the slot.
But now since we have upgraded our App Service plan, we have the option to add a slot.
I can click on Add slot and we can give a name a simple name for the slot.
So let me give a name of staging.
If you want, you can clone the settings from your existing production web app.
But for now, I won't clone any settings.
You can actually go on to the Microsoft documentation to understand what settings get cloned as part
of the slot.
What you'll notice is you are getting a new domain name.
So this includes the domain name of your production web app and the name of the slot.
Let me quickly go on to.
I'll click on add first.
Let's go on to our architecture diagram just to make sure that I put in.
What is the name of the slot.
Everywhere.
So it's going to be staging I'll copy this everywhere.
It's like having a new Azure Web app in place once it's done.
So under deployment slots, you can see now you have a production slot and you have a staging slot.
We also have the ability to manage the traffic across the slots, but we won't do that.
We have to just focus on the basic understanding of deployment slots under all resources.
In another tab, let me click on refresh and when you click on refresh, you can see you have another
resource in place.
This is an app service slot.
Let me click on this and you'll get all the similar aspects of an Azure Web app.
You get your own default domain name that I can copy onto the clipboard.
Let me put in another tab and go on to the new slot.
Continue on to the site.
So you will get the normal warning that we're not proceeding on to a secure site, but that's fine.
Let's leave it as it is.
What we'll do as a next step is what we'll do as a next step.
For the staging slot.
Let's imagine that we are publishing a newer version of our application.
For this I'll go on to development tools.
Go on to again ssh.
Let's perform the same steps.
Let's secure shell onto the underlying compute infrastructure.
Create a new index.php page.
Put in some code there.
What I'd seen earlier on.
So let's perform the same steps we had done earlier on.
I'll go on to slash home site.
Double route.
Let's create an index.
Dot PHP page.
I'll put in again code.
I'll paste it here.
I'm just saying that this is application version one.
Again control O on the keyboard.
Hit on enter control X to exit just to confirm.
For the staging slot.
Let's go on to index dot PHP and we can see web application version one.
Let's imagine that we have the production version of the application running now in the production slot.
This is a URL that is given to users.
So users will use this URL for the production version of the application.
You would give this URL to your test users.
Test users would test the version one of your application.
Let's say now testing is complete.
You want to promote this version one onto production.
We can perform a simple swap operation with the help of deployment slots.
With the help of the swap operation, our code, it performs a simple DNS swap.
What will happen is in our production version of the application.
Now we'll have version one running and in the staging slot we will have our prior version in place.
And I said that we can perform a swap back again.
We can perform a rollback whenever required.
This is very simple to do.
I could go on to my main Azure Web app.
I can click on swap.
And here we can swap the production with a staging slot.
Let me start the entire process.
Now, once swap is complete, it took a little bit over a minute.
If I go on to my main production slot and hit on enter to refresh the page, now I can see version one
running.
And if I go on to my staging slot and hit on enter, I should see the prior version of our application.
So we can see the prior version of the application running in our staging slot.
So the benefit of deployment slots is we understand that we can create kind of another slot, kind of
another Azure web app.
We can deploy the newer versions of our application onto the web app itself, the new slot.
Once testing is complete, we can perform a swap.
And remember, if the newer version of our application does not work in production, you can always
perform a swap back.
It's very simple.
So this marks the end of looking at deployment slots.

--- Autoscaling for Web Apps ---

I want to go through the scaling aspect that's available when it comes on the underlying infrastructure
for your web applications.
This is pretty similar on to what we had seen when it came onto virtual machine scale sets.
Remember, virtual machine scale sets had the ability to scale out and scale in your infrastructure
based on demand.
Well, we have the sort of similar concept when it comes onto Azure Web apps.
Again, remember that your app service plan dictates what is the infrastructure that's going to be made
available to your web applications.
Let's say you have an app service plan that's based on the basic SKU or the basic pricing tier.
Here you start getting your own dedicated virtual machines running in the background that can be used
for hosting your web applications.
Now, with the basic app service plan, you have the ability to have a maximum of three virtual machines
running as part of your infrastructure.
So let's say that you want to host multiple Azure Web apps, which you can do with the same app service
plan.
You can have that maximum number of three machines running as part of your infrastructure, and have
your web apps running across these virtual machines.
When it comes on to the scaling aspect, so initially you would have one machine running as part of
the App Service plan.
Because cost is important, you have to remember that right?
When you have more machines running as part of your infrastructure, you are charged more.
You are charge based again on the running aspect of that compute infrastructure.
So obviously you need to be careful when it comes on to scaling your infrastructure.
If you see that one machine is not enough, you can manually keyword manually scale your infrastructure
from 1 to 3 machines.
But again, in today's world, we know that we should be able to scale automatically based on demand.
Now this is available with the standard App Service plan or higher.
With the premium App Service plan, you have another concept that's known as automatic scaling.
You know that automatic scaling is like a based on the predictive nature of the workloads running as
part of Azure Web apps.
You know, it has that ability to understand what's the pattern of requests that are coming in onto
your web applications and then scale based on demand.
You don't need to have any sort of rules in place, but we're going to be going through the normal auto
scaling feature as part of the standard App Service plan, in which we can define rules for scaling.
With the standard App Service plan, you can have a maximum of now ten machines running as part of your
infrastructure, and then you can start adding rules to, again, scale out and scale in your infrastructure.
So as a simple exercise, let's see how we can enable that auto scale feature when it comes onto web
applications.
Currently, if I go on to my web app, we know that this is now part of the standard app Service plan.
Very, very important.
It's only within this plan we can configure auto scaling under settings.
If I go on to scale out right.
So scale up was used to kind of, you know, increase our app service plan capabilities.
When it comes on to scale out, we can now have scaling conditions in place.
We can scale out our infrastructure.
You can see that as part of the standard App service plan, we get a maximum of ten machines that can
run as part of the plan itself.
If we scroll down, we have the scale out method of manual.
So here I can say let's have two machines running as part of the App Service plan or we can define rules.
I told you about that automatic scaling feature that is based on the premium app service plans here,
the entire scaling process, you know, the conditions are managed by the platform itself.
So based on the traffic, if the traffic is increasing automatically, it can scale out.
And if the traffic is decreasing, it can go and scale in with the standard App service plan.
We can actually create rules similar to what we had seen with virtual machine scale sets.
Let me click on configure.
Then we have the similar screen in which we can configure custom auto scale.
We can add conditions.
We can scale based on a metric.
We can specify let's say a maximum number.
We've already seen this right.
And then we can add a rule here.
We can say based on either the CPU percentage or other metrics.
If it is greater than 70%, go ahead and add or increase the count of instances running as part of the
App Service plan.
So I'm not gonna go through this process of adding a scale rule because we've already gone through this
when it comes onto virtual machine scale sets.
I just want you all to know that this is something that is possible when it comes onto your Azure Web
apps.

--- Container-based applications ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this particular section we have looked at a number of compute based services.
We have looked at Azure VMs.
We have looked at virtual machine scale sets.
We have seen Azure Web Apps as part of the exam objectives.
We have to also understand the different services that can be used to host some container based applications.
So before we can actually dwell into using the various services, I first want to give a quick introduction
to students who are not aware of the, you know, the fact of having container based applications in
place.
Now, we are all well aware of the concept of virtual machines.
Virtual machines were designed to make the most of the hardware specifications of the underlying physical
machine.
You could have multiple virtual machines hosted on the same physical server, and you could make use
of the underlying hardware specifications of the physical server for your VMs, and then you have your
applications hosted on VMs itself.
So companies would deploy multiple applications on, let's say, the same virtual machine just to make
the most out of the hardware.
But the problem was that, you know, there were some inherent problems when it came onto hosting applications
on virtual machines.
Let's say you had two applications hosted on the same VM.
So you have a physical server.
You have your host OS.
You have a hypervisor based software that will allow you to virtualize the physical infrastructure.
And then you host your virtual machines.
So let's say you have two applications hosted on the same VM.
Let's say that one of the applications requires an update at the OS level at the virtual machine OS
level.
There's some library that you install or update.
This is required by the first application.
Now because of the installation of that library, it could cause a problem with the other application
running on the same VM.
So here the problem is that when you're making an update to the VM for one application, it might interfere
with other applications running on the same VM.
So this is one inherent problem.
The other problem was that, you know, you could have applications running on a VM in your dev environment.
When you move it onto a VM in the prod environment it would not work.
This could be because of the differences in configuration at an OS level, maybe at an application level
between the dev and prod environment.
So these were the some inherent problems which were still there when it came on to hosting applications
on virtual machines.
Then we came to the advent of container based applications.
So this is a very popular tool set known as Docker.
Docker allows you to package your application into something known as Docker based images.
And then you can run those Docker based images has containers here.
The architecture is quite simple.
You again have your virtual machines.
But then on the VM on the virtual machine.
Here I'm showing an example of a physical server, but on a physical server or a VM.
You can install something known as the container engine.
You then package your application into something known as a container and run it on the container engine.
Here each container has only the application code and whatever dependencies are required for the application
to run within the container itself.
So if you had the application required any update, you would make that update only to that container
running the application so each container could run independently on the virtual machine itself.
This was just a quick intro.
Now, we do have a lot of chapters ahead because we understand in depth how do we make use of services
on Azure for deploying container based applications?

--- Lab - Setting up Docker on an Azure virtual machine ---

Now in order to see how we can make use of services on Azure.
When it comes on to hosting container based applications, I'm going to take an approach wherein I'm
first going to see how to use Docker on an Azure VM.
Again, this is for those students who are not familiar with creating something known as Docker image,
creating something known as Docker container.
I want you all to understand in depth how to make use of the container based services on Azure.
For this we need kind of a base application.
We need to be able to create Docker images and Docker based containers.
So I suggest for those students who are not aware on the entire process, I'm going to take a particular
flow when it comes on to working with container based services on Azure.
And we are going to start with the basics.
By basics I mean I'm going to spin up a VM based on Ubuntu Server.
We've already seen how to do this.
Then on this VM I'm going to install the Docker engine.
To see an example a simple example on a Docker image and a container.
I'll have a simple PHP based application.
We'll package that application into a Docker image, and then we'll run the image as a container on
the VM itself.
So first and foremost let's focus on how do we create something known as a Docker image, a Docker container,
and how we can run that container on an Azure VM.
So let's go on to Azure quickly and let's create.
Let me go on to virtual machines.
Let me create a new VM.
So I do have an existing resource group, let me go ahead and reuse the same one.
Give a simple name for my virtual machine.
We'll put this in East US.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
We'll build this on Ubuntu Server with the standard sizes okay.
I'll choose a password.
Give a username and a password for the machine.
Now what I'll do is in addition to allowing traffic on port 22, let me also allow traffic on port 80
because I want to run.
I said a PHP based application, and we want to be able to access that application via a web server.
So I'll allow traffic on port 80.
This is a normal concept around deploying web applications on a virtual machine.
On networking.
Since I don't have a network in place, I'll go ahead and create a new virtual network, a new subnet.
I'll say let's create a new public IP address as well.
Let me go on to review and create and let's create the VM.
I'll click on create.
Let's wait till we have the VM in place.
Now the VM is in place.
Let me go on to it.
So the idea is I want to host a PHP application on a web server.
Now if I do this as a normal practice, you know, hosting the PHP web application on a VM, I would
first need to install a web server, then copy my PHP code onto the web server and host it accordingly.
But now we want to package everything within a Docker image and run it as a container.
That container has to run on something known as Docker Engine.
So we need to install the Docker engine on our Linux machine.
For this we can refer on to the Docker documentation of installing Docker Engine on Ubuntu.
To perform the installation, let me go on to the serial console.
I said we could, uh, have a secure shell session or even use the seal console as well in terms of
running commands.
So going back here, if we scroll down.
We can take this entire code set that sets up the entire repository.
And then finally we can install the Docker packages.
So going back here let me log in.
As Docker admin.
Right click and click on paste.
So I'm pasting all the commands as they are.
It will execute each command one by one.
This is just for setting the repository.
Going back onto the documentation link.
The next step will be to install all of these packages when it comes onto Docker.
So what we're trying to do is we're trying to install another layer on the machine.
This layer will be responsible for running Docker based containers.
It can also actually build Docker based images.
If you need to understand more about Docker, then I suggest that we go ahead and just click on paste.
This will be for the installation of the Docker toolset.
So in case if you need more information on container based applications working with Docker, then I
suggest going for a full fledged Docker based course.
What we're doing right now is just having a VM in place in Azure, and on this VM we are installing
the Docker toolset.
This will go on to completion.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Containerize an application ---

Now in the prior chapter, we deployed an Azure VM based on ubuntu.
We installed the Docker engine.
Now it's time to create something known as a Docker image and then run an application on the VM itself.
So we need to see having a Docker image because we need an image to kind of use the other container
based services on Azure.
So for that we need some sort of image and a running container as an example.
To keep things very simple, let's have a simple PHP application actually is just a single page.
I am in Visual Studio Code.
Again, all of the code will be made available to you in VS code.
I've just opened up an empty folder on my laptop.
There's nothing within this folder.
I'm going to create a new file.
I'll name this as index dot PHP and I'm going to paste in code now most of this code is in HTML.
I'll just save this.
The only thing that is in PHP is just this one line.
But in the end it means that we need PHP modules in place.
We need a web server to run our code.
Now, in order to create something known as our own Docker image, we have to, you know, add a new
file here.
This file is going to be known as the Docker file.
So this is a specific name that's given on to creating.
So this is a name of a file that we need to use when creating our own Docker based image.
I'm going to add something known as Docker instructions to this code.
Let me go ahead and just save this.
What exactly are these Docker instructions doing.
The first instruction is to use a base image.
You know, there are many images already available in an internet based repository known as Docker Hub.
There are many companies that have already gone ahead and published their images, their Docker based
images.
So you have an image, let's say, for launching nginx, you have an image for having many other web
servers in place.
This particular image will have a web server and have everything in place for running a PHP based application.
So I'm saying that let's create a custom Docker image by using this as the base image.
Now when it comes on to the web server running as part of this image, the web content is served out
of this folder slash var slash slash HTML.
I'm then copying my index dot php base file.
I'm exposing port 80 of the Docker container when it runs.
And now all of this instructions is going to create something known as a Docker base image.
And then out of this image we can run a container.
Now I said don't worry we don't need to understand Docker as part of this exam.
Instead we have to understand how to use the container based services.
But obviously for this we need some Docker image and be able to run a contingency that it works.
So I'm keeping it very simple.
I have a PHP based file in place and I have my docker file.
How do we build the Docker image?
Well we can use the Docker engine that we have on Azure VM for building the Docker base image.
Now in order to copy these files, we have to copy both our Docker file and our index.php base file
onto our Linux machine.
I'm on a windows client machine.
I can use the SCP tool to copy each file.
So I'm in the code folder.
I'm going to copy my Docker file first.
So we want to copy our docker file.
Then Docker admin add the rate.
What is the public IP address of our machine.
So in another tab let me go on to virtual machines and take the public IP address that's assigned onto
the machine itself.
So I'll copy it onto the clipboard.
Going back onto command prompt.
So putting in the public IP address.
And I want to copy it to the home slash the default Docker admin folder.
Because we have a user with the name of Docker admin.
This is our administrator account.
So we are saying that please initiate a copy of I need to mention the password.
So please initiate the copy of this file from our local machine onto the remote server.
Similarly, let me copy the index dot php file.
I'll need to mention the password every time I copy the file, so this is also done.
We can obviously verify here in the session.
If I do a listing I can see my docker file and I can see my index dot php file.
Now the next step is to create something known as a Docker image.
To create a Docker image we execute the command docker because we have Docker toolset installed on this
machine.
We're going to say build our Docker image.
We can give it a name.
I'll give it a simple name of PHP app.
And I'm going to say take all of the files from the current directory.
So take my index dot php file and my docker file.
So it's going to use that Docker file.
It's going to execute those instructions and is going to build something known as a Docker image.
Within this image, you're going to have a lightweight operating system based on the base image.
Then you will have whatever is required to run your PHP web application.
So you'll have a web server and you'll have the required PHP modules in place.
Again, it's impossible to explain everything about Docker in this particular section.
I said the entire purpose is to have a Docker image in place and be able to run a container.
If I do a sudo docker images, I should be able to see my image in place.
Now, if I want to run a container out of that image, I will do a sudo docker run.
I can put.
Optional parameters in place where in.
I can say that to automatically remove the container when it stops.
We have to do a port mapping.
We can do port mapping wherein we can say that let's do a mapping of the port number of the Docker container
onto the port number of our virtual machine.
And then I can say let's run our image.
So I just need to add another hyphen here.
And now it should be running a Docker container.
Just to confirm, if I take the public IP address go on to a new window, go on to a new browser tab.
I can see my PHP application.
This is what it looks like.
It's just displaying a list of courses.
But all of this is static information because I want to start simple.
So what have we done is we have just packaged a very simple PHP based application within a Docker image.
And we are able to successfully run this as a Docker container.

--- Lab - Azure Container Registry Service ---

Now in the prior chapter, what we've done is we have built something known as a Docker image.
We ran that Docker image on our Azure VM.
Now let's say that we need to run the Docker container on another machine.
On the target machine we would first need to install the Docker engine.
We would need to copy our Docker image onto that target machine and then run our container.
For the moment, let's target the aspect of needing to copy the Docker image from one machine onto another.
Not the most safest approach when it comes onto sharing Docker based images.
See, what we've done as a developer is we've built our own Docker image.
Let's say it's a full blown application.
You now need to run that application on another target environment.
For this you need the Docker image.
Currently the only way to run the container on the target machine is to copy the Docker image from our
source onto the target.
Well, what you can do is instead of doing this, you can publish your image, your Docker image, or
to a public container image registry that's known as Docker Hub.
Docker hub actually hosts millions of Docker images.
That includes a host of official images for Linux, databases, programming languages, etc. so one
option is developers can push their application images onto Docker Hub, and then from the target machine,
they can pull down the image from Docker Hub and run a container.
But in Azure there is another option known as the Azure Container Registry Service.
So what we can do is we can build A resource based on the service, and we can push our Docker image
onto the container registry.
The Azure Container Registry Service is a managed private Docker registry.
We can push our container images there.
The key features are.
It's a private storage for your images within Azure itself.
You have the ability to integrate with Microsoft Android for security.
And you have other aspects like network security as well.
So in this chapter, let's at least do the job of building a resource based on the Azure Container Registry
Service.
I'll choose to create a new resource within Azure.
I'll search for the Container Registry service.
So I'll choose to create a resource based on the service.
Elvis.
Choose my existing resource group.
I'll give a name for the registry.
Please note that the registry name gets appended with dot Azure cr.io.
Since it's already in place, let me go ahead and just add something.
Change the name.
Basically this will be in East US in the pricing plan.
Let me choose basic, go on networking on to encryption tags, review and create and create the container
registry.
All we are doing is we are creating a place in Azure that can be used for storing our Docker based images.
This will go on to completion.
What we'll do is let's mark an end on this chapter and move on to the next.
In the next chapter, let's perform the steps of publishing the image from our Docker VM machine onto
the Azure Container Registry.

--- Lab - Publishing to Azure Container Registry ---

Once the deployment is complete, we can go on to the container registry.
Here, if I go on to services and repositories, we will not have any repositories in place.
So here the idea is we want to now publish the Docker image that we have on our Azure VM onto this centralized
service, so that we can then pull down the image from any target environment and run a Docker based
container.
Let's go ahead and publish the image onto the Azure Container Registry.
It's actually quite simple.
What I'll do is let me again log in via the serial console onto Docker VM.
In the meantime, here let me go on to the access keys and let me enable the admin user.
So when we enable the admin user we will get credentials that we can use to actually authorize ourselves
to publish the Docker image onto the container registry.
So once we are logged in, actually we're getting all the logs when it comes onto the Docker container
that's running on the VM itself.
Now in order to formulate the command for pushing the Docker image, I first need to log into the Azure
Container Registry.
For this, I'm using the Docker login command.
I then need to give the login server details, so I'll copy the login server name on the clipboard and
place it here.
Next is what is the username.
So this is the username I'll copy this paste it here.
And then what is the password.
So what is the password to log in.
I could use either password or password two.
Or click on show.
Copy this onto the clipboard and place it here.
Currently there's an easy way to first of all log into the Azure Container Registry.
So this is a process.
We first need to log in.
And then we can.
Then we tag our local image and push it onto the Azure Container Registry.
Here in the serial console I'll paste in the command hit on enter.
The next step is we need to do a sudo docker tag to tag a local PHP base image with the name of the
registry slash PHP app.
Again, the name of our image.
I'll copy this, paste it here and enter.
This is done.
And then finally we do a sudo docker push and we just give now the name of our image that's been tagged
with the container registry name.
Let me paste this command here on enter.
And now it's pushing our image.
The image actually consists of multiple layers.
These layers are basically based on the Docker instructions.
Remember that we are using a base image.
Even that base image has its own list of Docker instructions.
Now, once the publish is complete, if I now go on to the repositories, I should see my repository
in place our Docker image.
So let's mark it in order.
This chapter where we have published now the image from the underlying Azure VM onto the Azure Container
Registry.

--- Lab - Azure Container Instances ---

So now, in the last chapter, we published our Docker image onto the Azure Container Registry.
Now we need to look at Azure based services that can be used to run our containers.
So yes, we can run our Docker based containers on Azure Virtual machines.
On another VM.
We will first need to install the Docker engine and then use Docker commands to pull the image from
the Azure Container Registry this time.
And then we can run a container on a target machine.
But as part of the exam, we need to understand services that are present on Azure that can help you
run Docker based containers.
The first service we'll look at is the most simplest one.
It's the Azure Container instance.
This is a serverless runtime environment for your containers.
You're the best thing is you don't need to provision any compute.
You don't have to download and install Docker.
Everything is managed in the background by the service itself.
All you do is you tell the Azure container instance where your image is.
It will download and run the image as a container.
This is an ideal service to just get the container or a set of containers up and running.
Know that if you want a complete orchestration of your containers like you want features of auto scaling
rolling deployments, then you have to look at other tools like Azure Container Apps or Kubernetes.
Okay, so let's go ahead and create a resource based on.
So I'll go onto all resources.
Let me create a new resource based on the container instance service.
So I'll search for container instances.
Yeah.
Under this I'll create a new resource based on the service.
Again we are presented with a wizard.
Choose my resource group.
I'll need to give an instance name.
I'll just give a very simple name for the instance in East US.
We can now tell the container instance where to pick up our image from.
There are some quick start images in place.
We can pick up the images from Docker Hub, but there's also an option of picking up the image from
the Azure Container Registry.
So automatically it has picked up the Azure Container Registry.
It has picked up our image and it has picked up our image tag.
Now please note that in order to make this work, you would need to enable that admin user feature that
we have done in the last chapter in the Azure Container Registry.
If you don't enable that feature, the container instance will not be able to connect onto the container
registry.
You would get an error.
We're not getting an error because we have enabled the admin user feature.
Here we can configure what is the size.
See what's happening here is the container instance service is a managed service.
It is providing you a compute environment with virtual CPUs, with memory, with Docker installed that
can be used for running your container based applications.
Since our image is based on Linux, in the end the container is running within a lightweight Linux distribution.
Our PHP application within the container.
So it is understood that it needs to provision an OS type of Linux for running our container based application.
I can go on to next.
Now we do want to expose port 80.
Right.
Remember we had done this for even our virtual machine.
Within our docker file we expose port 80 of the Docker container.
Here we are enabling port 80 of the container instance.
I don't enable any sort of instance logs at this point in time.
I'll go on to review and create and let's create the container instance.
So go ahead and click on create.
And let's wait until this is complete.
Now once the deployment is complete I can go on to the resource itself.
So now we are going onto the container instance.
The container instance gets a public IP address.
If I copy this onto the clipboard.
And let's go on to a new browser tab and go onto the public IP address itself.
And we can see our running Docker container using the Azure container instance is the most simplest
service.
If you want to quickly get up and running with your Docker based containers wherein your images are
in a container registry, you can make use of the Azure Container instance here.
The entire infrastructure, the compute infrastructure is managed for you.
Right now that we are done, what I'll do is, uh, let me go and delete the container instance.
We don't require any more.

--- Building a multi-container application ---

Hey and welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapters, we have seen how to create a very simple Docker base image.
We could run it as a container on an Azure VM in order to run the container out of the image on another
target environment, like an Azure container instance.
We published our Docker image onto something known as a Azure Container Registry.
So this is a private Docker registry as part of the exam.
We also need to understand something known as the Azure Container Groups.
Now the Azure Container group is part of the Azure Container Instance service.
A container group is actually a set of containers that are scheduled to run on the same host.
So they'll share the same network, they can share the same volumes, etc. what we've done is we've
only run one container based on an image in a container group.
We will need to run multiple containers.
Now, as an example, I want to change our PHP based application in such a way that it now connects
onto a database server, fetches data, and displays information.
This is normally how applications work.
Bare bones, wherein you have a front end, a web application that talks to a database, a backend to
get data and display it accordingly.
So I want to have a very simple approach.
Now I know again from an admin perspective, as an administrator, we don't need to dwell into development.
We are looking more at infrastructure management.
But this will give us an idea on how we can also deploy another container based on this time a database
engine.
And we also need to understand how containers talk to each other, you know, in these services.
That is also important from an infrastructure perspective.
Hence what we're going to do in the next set of chapters is we are going to build now.
So I said, we have a very simple Docker image and a container.
We now want to look at a multi container based application.
This time we're going to have two containers.
One is again the PHP application.
But I'm going to change the application.
It's going to be the same content of displaying course information.
But the only difference is instead of now having static information in place, that information would
be fetched from a database server.
And I'm trying to make this demos as simple as possible.
I'm not I'm not trying to go too much into development as such, just trying to have that basic application
layout in place so that we can host it on a container based service.
We'll have another container that will host a MySQL database server.
This will run on its own container.
It will host a simple database.
We'll have a table within the database.
The table will have information about courses.
It will have a course ID, a course name and a rating.
Reading and the PHP application would run in its own container.
The MySQL database server would run in its own container, and this would run as part of the container
group.
So let's follow the below steps in the subsequent chapters.
We're going to build a new Docker image.
Actually we're going to build two Docker images.
One is for MySQL.
There is already a base MySQL image available in Docker Hub, similar to what we'd seen for our PHP
based Docker image.
Remember the from instruction, the first instruction in the docker file that from instruction would
take a base Docker image from Docker Hub.
The Docker image has everything in place, which consists of a lightweight operating system and whatever
is required for the PHP application to run.
Well, there is also a base MySQL Docker image in place wherein if you run a container out of that image,
you'll have a MySQL database server running within the container itself.
We will then seed the database by seeding I mean has the container is brought up.
MySQL database server will be running in that container automatically.
Will have a database on that database server automatically will have a table also in place.
That table will have that base course information will push our new Docker image onto the Azure Container
Registry for MySQL, and then just quickly test the MySQL image if it's working properly via the use
of Azure Container instances.
And then I'll change the PHP based application, will deploy it again, and then we'll look at implementing
Azure Container Group.
So we're going to go step by step.
This is just for the benefit of students.
Again who are not familiar with the entire process of having an application connecting onto a database
server via the use of containers.
So let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Building and testing a custom MySQL image ---

In this chapter, let's go through the process of building a custom Docker image that's based on MySQL.
I told you that on Docker Hub, which is a central internet based repository for Docker based images,
wherein you have companies around the world who have published their own official images.
So you have official images for Linux, for databases, for programming languages, etc. they're going
to make use again of those inbuilt images and create our own custom MySQL image.
I'm honor dev folder currently on my local machine in Visual Studio Code.
It's an empty folder on my laptop.
Let me create a new folder of MySQL.
I'm going to put in the artifacts of the MySQL image that we're going to create in this particular folder.
I'm going to create the docker file.
I told you that in order to create that custom docker image, we need to have a docker file in place.
I'll put in my first instruction, which is the from instruction.
So we are using a base Docker image available on Docker Hub.
The next step is to give some environment variables.
So for this particular.
Base image it does accept environment variables.
So what happens is when you create a new container out of that image you'll have the MySQL database
server running.
You can then specify if you want to create a new user base database.
So I want to create a new database with the name of course db.
We can specify a root password for the MySQL database server We can mention to create a new user account,
a new MySQL based user and its relevant password.
I'm going to add now a copy instruction, which tells us that we need to copy all the files from something
known as an init folder onto this particular folder itself, within kind of the running container.
So what's going to do is what this is going to do is we're going to have some scripts now in place.
After it sets up the MySQL database server on the running container, after it creates a new database
and sets the password and creates a new user, it will then seed the database.
It will pass in the scripts during the initial boot time of the container.
I don't know if you want to understand more about building and working with Docker, I suggest you go
for a full fledged Docker based course.
What I am doing right now is I just want to have a setup in place wherein I have an application talking
to a database.
That's it.
I need to create.
So I'll go on to the MySQL folder.
I'll create a new folder of init.
Within this init folder I'm going to create two files.
One is going to be for setting the schema.
And another one is going to be for adding the data.
In terms of this schema.
I'm going to say create a table.
If it does not exist we're creating a table of courses.
This table has three columns.
It has an ID, a name and a rating.
After we create the table then I want to insert rows of information within the table itself.
So I'm just adding three rows of information.
Go ahead and save all of these files.
So this is now the base for our Docker image.
Let's copy these files onto our Docker VM machine and build an image.
Please note that you can on your laptop, also install the Docker toolset and build the image accordingly.
You can go ahead and do that.
But since we already have our Docker VM in place, we've already installed Docker there.
Let's go ahead and copy our files onto the server and build a Docker image.
So now I need to copy all the contents here.
So let's go ahead and copy our contents onto the server here within Command Prompt I'm in the dev folder.
Let me run the SCP command.
Now since I want to copy multiple files and folders.
So I'll say this is in my dev folder in my MySQL and we need to copy this on to.
So I'll just mention the command like this.
In order to go ahead and copy all of the files onto the remote machine.
Right.
It's done.
Going on to our server.
Let me just clear the screen.
Let me do a listing.
I can see a MySQL folder now in place within the MySQL folder.
I have our Docker file and I should be having my scripts in the init folder.
So if I go onto the init folder, I should be seeing my schema and my data SQL base files.
I'll just go out of this so that we are back in our MySQL folder.
Let me show you the command to create a new Docker image.
So I'll name this as MySQL courses and mention that everything is within my current directory.
No.
I'm done.
If I do a sudo docker images, I'll see the MySQL courses images on our local machine.
We can also see our PHP app image.
I just need to log in onto the docker, the Azure Container Registry again.
Let me tag.
A new MySQL courses image and let me push it onto the.
Azure Container Registry.
And what we'll do is we'll quickly just create an instance based on the Azure Container Instance service,
just to make sure that our custom MySQL image is working as expected.
What is done?
If I click on refresh for the repositories in my Azure Container Registry.
I can now see my MySQL courses image also in place.
I said quickly, let's create a new resource based on the container instance service.
Mention the existing resource group.
I'll just give a simple name for the instance in East US using the Azure Container Registry.
This time, since we have multiple images, we'll need to select the MySQL course image and we have
the latest tag.
I'll leave the size as it is now in networking, our market has none.
Normally for a database instance, you don't want to expose that database instance onto the public internet.
I don't want to enable any container instance logs at this point in time.
I'll go on to review and create and let's create the container instance.
Let's go ahead and click on create.
And let's come back once we have the instance in place.
Once you have the container instance in place we'll go on to it.
Let me go onto the containers so I can see the container is in the running state.
Go on to connect.
Let me choose bin bash.
Click on connect.
So we are now connected onto the container.
We can log in onto the MySQL database server using the user details of.
So what is the user that we create.
App user.
And this is the password.
So I'll need to go ahead and enter this accordingly.
Tap user then just hyphen p.
It will ask us for the password.
I'll put in the password.
And now we are connected onto the MySQL database server.
We could use our new database.
Remember we had defined this database is change.
We can do a select star from the courses table and we can see our data accordingly.
So we've done this extensive exercise of just trying to build our own custom MySQL image.
And we were able to run.
This now has a container within the Azure Container instance service.
Remember this is not our end goal.
Our end goal is to be able to run multiple containers as part of a container group.
This exercise was just to make sure that we could build a custom MySQL docker image.
Now that we are done, I am going to delete this particular container instance.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Rebuild our PHP Application and push to Azure Container Registry ---

In the project, we built our own custom MySQL Docker image.
We saw that we could run it as a container in the Azure Container instance service.
I told you, our end goal is to be able to launch a container group that has multiple containers.
We want to have one container hosting a web application, and that application needs to connect onto
our MySQL database container.
So we have our MySQL database container setup.
It's running fine.
We know that it can run fine as a container.
The next step is I'm going to now have the PHP application in place.
So here I'm going to create a new folder.
This will be now for our modified PHP application.
Create an index dot php file.
And I'll also need a Docker file because we're going to build a custom Docker image.
I'm going to paste in the code for the PHP base file.
Now please note that this particular code is doing the same thing which is seen earlier on, wherein
it is displaying a table of a list of courses.
The only difference is now it is going to connect to the MySQL database server that should be running
in its own container.
We are going on to the courses db database using the username and the password.
Even though I know you are not supposed to embed all of these details within your code, we are not
trying to go much into the dev approach.
Keeping it very simple, you're the entire purpose is we want to fire a query, getting the ID, the
name and the rating from that underlying causes table.
Using the courses database, the username and the password.
And then we display the information accordingly within this PHP based page.
Since our containers are going to run as has part of a container group on the same host machine.
The host machine is managed by Remember Azure.
All you have to do is to deploy your containers onto the container group itself.
Hence, when you want to refer on to the you know what is the host name for the database server, it's
going to be the loopback address, right?
The address of 127.0.0.1.
So we can go ahead and mention this right.
Either localhost or the loopback address.
Right.
This is our code.
The next thing is our Docker file in the docker file.
I'm using a base Docker image.
This base Docker image again is going to have a lightweight OS.
It's going to have Apache install the Apache web server and whatever is required from a PHP perspective
to host a PHP based application.
I'm using the run instruction to actually install libraries or packages that would be required for PHP
to connect onto a MySQL database server.
This is required.
And then finally we're going to copy the code file that we have onto the slash var slash dub dub dub
slash HTML folder.
So this is the folder within Apache that serves web content.
Again very simple.
We need to now create a new Docker image and publish the Docker image onto our Azure Container Registry.
First and foremost we will need to copy these files onto the server.
So let's now copy the PHP app.
This is done.
Let's go on to.
Our Docker VM.
Go on BHP app.
So we have our Docker file and our index dot bhp page in place.
Now within the Azure Container Registry I already have the Docker image bhp app.
This was having a tag of latest.
Probably not the best tag to give at this point in time, but what we're going to do is we're going
to create again a new Docker image, the name of BHP app, but with another tag.
Let's do a sudo docker build.
Mention a tag of PHP app version one and tell to take all the files from the current directory.
So it's building that new Docker image.
Once I'll issue the command of sudo docker tag to tag our new docker image, and then push this on to
the Azure Container Registry.
Once done, if we once done.
If we go on to.
Repositories, you'll see for PHP app we have now two tags in place.
We have the latest that is actually the prior version actually.
And we have our newer version of V1.
Obviously there are better ways to tag your, you know, the different versions of your container based
images.
So this is these are simple demos, but let's mark an end onto this chapter wherein we have the newer
version of our PHP based application.
Now within the Azure Container Registry.

--- Lab - Azure Container Group ---

Right.
So now within the Azure Container Registry we have both of our images.
We have the image based on MySQL.
And we have now a newer tag or a newer version of our PHP app image, which should ideally connect onto
a MySQL database server and get information accordingly.
Now we need to deploy two container instances or to something known as an Azure container group.
So we are still using the service of the Azure container instance.
But this time we use something known as Azure Container Group to run a group of containers.
In order to do this, we need to deploy it either by using Azure Resource Manager or using a YAML snippet
YAML code.
I'm going to go with the approach of deploying our container group of container instances using YAML
within the dev folder.
I'll create a new file.
Let's name this as deployment dot YAML.
Let me paste in code here.
Now the way that you structure this YAML code is available in the Microsoft documentation.
Later on we are going to now submit this YAML code onto Azure Resource Manager.
And Azure Resource Manager will understand based on this code that we want to deploy an Azure Container
Group that's based on Azure Container Instance Service.
And based on the name value pairs that are given here.
So let me go through them in brief.
It will deploy two containers as part of the container group.
One container will be a PHP based application and the other one will be MySQL.
Under properties we have the OS type, which is going to be Linux because both of our containers are
based on underlying Linux operating systems.
So it will be Linux.
There will be a public IP address assigned onto this overall container based environment that will expose
port 80.
So via port 80 we should be able to reach our PHP based application running on its web server.
Then we have the details of our containers.
We give a name.
So I'm giving a name of MySQL and PHP.
What are the resources to attach onto each container when they run?
You can change this accordingly in terms of CPU and memory.
I need to give what is the image name for both of them.
So let's go ahead and do that.
To get the image name for B1.
So you can click on the tag itself.
You can take the image name from here.
And the similar thing if I go on to the MySQL courses go on to the latest tag.
Just copy this.
And place it here.
Let me save this.
Then we have the image registry credentials.
This will authorize the deployment to pick up the images from the Azure Container Registry.
Now please note that there are different ways in which we can mention this.
More secure ways.
Just keeping this very simple.
We need to mention our server name.
So I need to go on to the.
Admin the access keys.
Right.
Copy the server name.
Place it here.
This would be the username.
Right.
And then we have the password.
So the password copy it on the clipboard and let's paste it here.
I see this is the way that we mention the carry out the deployment of an Azure container group of instances.
So currently there is no way from the Azure portal where in we say okay, let's create an Azure container
group and then mention these container instances to be picked up from the Azure Container Registry.
No, we need to do this either via something known as an ARM template.
We'll be covering ARM templates later on or via, you know, submitting this deployment dot YAML base
file.
How do we submit this deployment dot YAML base file?
The easiest way is within the Azure portal itself.
I'm going to click on this icon here.
It's known as Cloud Shell.
Within the browser itself, you will get something known as a Cloud Shell session that will allow you
to run Azure Command Line interface commands or even PowerShell commands against Azure.
Now we have an entire section when it comes on to using these commands.
For now, we just want to execute an Azure CLI command that is going to create a new.
container group based on a deployment file.
Let me switch to PowerShell here.
On the manage files, let me upload.
Now that deployment dot YAML file it's in my dev folder.
So the deployment dot YAML file.
The file should be present here.
Now deployment YAML I'm going to execute a command now.
Let me paste in the command.
We're using something known as the Azure command line interface.
We are using the container based the container instance service.
We want to create a new container group.
We have to mention the name of our resource group and our deployment dot YAML based file.
If I hit on enter, what's going to happen now is it's going to send a request on to Azure Resource
Manager.
It's going to submit this deployment or YAML based file.
And based on the deployment of YAML based file, it should create a container group with both of our
containers running.
Let's come back once this is complete.
Now once this is done in another tab, let me go on to all resources.
We can see a container instance in place of courses group.
If I go on to it let me just hide this.
Yes we do get a public IP address.
But before that, if I go on to containers, you will now see two containers in place.
We have a MySQL based container and the PHP based container.
Both are in the running state.
Okay.
Let me take the public IP address of the container container group basically remember.
Now we should be able to reach our PHP based application.
And we are getting our list of courses accordingly.
Now how do we know that it is actually picking up the data from our underlying database.
Let's make a change.
Okay so for this last course the rating is 4.7.
Let's go on to our containers.
Let me go on to the MySQL container and let's connect.
To MySQL the username output has app user.
Mention my password.
Use the causes database.
Now let me update the causes table.
Also the rating to 4.9.
Where the id so the ID of our.
If you look at the course ID for the AZ 104 course it is three.
So say where the ID is equal to three.
Okay.
It's saying it's done.
If it is done.
If I now click on refresh you will now see the rating is 4.9.
So yes indeed the speech based application is fetching data from the online MySQL database server that's
running from within the container.
Right.
So we are done with this demo as well.
What I'll do is I'll go on to the overview and delete this container instance.

--- Azure Container Apps ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give kind of a brief overview of something known as Azure Container
Apps.
We have seen how we could run our containers.
We saw how we could run a PHP application.
We saw how we could run a MySQL database container within a service known as the Azure Container Instance
Service.
This is actually the most simplest way to run your container there.
You don't need to provision any infrastructure.
Remember, you just specify the amount of virtual CPUs and the amount of memory that will be provisioned
for you.
But normally in an application for a company, they would have multiple containers for the application.
We just you know, ours is very simple.
We have two containers, an app container and a database container.
But typically for an application you will have different containers.
Here I'm giving an example of just four containers.
You could have the web front end container that is responsible for serving the front end web UI to your
users.
You might have again the database container.
You might have a separate API container that exposes APIs that calls other functions.
You might have one container that's only used for caching purposes.
You could have multiple containers for your application.
In such cases, it would not be wise to go ahead and use the Azure Container Instance service for hosting
these containers.
You would need to look at a container orchestration software.
You might have heard of a tool known as Kubernetes.
This is a very popular tool when it comes on to running your container based applications.
Here what you do is you actually provision a cluster of machines.
You install Kubernetes, and then you submit your deployments for your container based applications.
You have basically one machine that is the Kubernetes controller that serves the control plane.
Your containers run on nodes within the cluster.
Kubernetes has a software has several features that includes schedule and placement.
So Kubernetes will take care of choosing which node to run your container.
Self-healing.
So if a container crashes, it would reschedule the container on a healthy node.
Scaling it could create replicas based on demand.
It had support for routing of traffic.
And also you could implement different patterns in terms of deployment.
So there's a lot of features available in Kubernetes.
So normally if you had kind of a really multi container application and you wanted the entire orchestration
process in place, you could make use of Kubernetes.
Azure Container Apps is just an abstraction layer built on top of Kubernetes.
So in the end you are making use of Kubernetes as a software.
But there you don't need to provision the underlying infrastructure.
It's managed for you.
You don't need to install the software that is managed for you.
It just a layer on top of it.
That is in a nutshell, what is Azure Container Apps?
We are going to look at a very simple deployment on Azure Container Apps using our images that we have
in Azure Container Registry.
But just before that, if you want to look at some key terms in Azure Container app.
So first we have the Azure Container App environment.
This is a secure boundary that contains one or more container apps.
So apps in the same environment can talk internally to each other.
Then you have the container app itself.
So you can deploy multiple container apps to the same container app environment.
Then you have revisions.
You can have different versions of your applications running across different revisions of each container
app.
And then you have replicas.
This is the running instance of a revision in the next chapter.
Let's look at a quick demo on using Azure Container Apps.

--- Lab - Azure Container Apps ---

Now, in order to look at a demo on Azure Container Apps, we'll make use of the same images that we
have for our PHP based application and MySQL, and run within a container app environment.
Just before we do this.
Go on to your subscription Azure subscription one.
Go on to resource providers and just make sure that just wait for it to come up.
Okay.
Let me search for something known as Microsoft App.
Make sure that this is registered.
So just select this and click on the register option.
The other one is Microsoft Dot Operational Insights.
Okay.
This is registered for me.
While the registration is being done, just a quick note on the pricing for Azure Container apps.
So if you're launching this in the East US location, it's based on the consumption plan.
You see, in terms of the pay as you go pricing, it's per second.
You won't be running this for a long time.
It's a very simple demo, right.
Once the registration is complete, let me go on to all resources.
I'll create a new resource within the marketplace.
Let's search for the container app service.
So I'm choosing Container App from Microsoft.
Let's create a new resource based on the service.
We now get a wizard.
I'll select my existing resource group.
Just give kind of a simple name for the container application.
We have two deployment sources.
So either it could be our images or our source code.
I'll leave it as container image.
Let me run this in East US if possible.
So I select East us.
It'll create a new container apps environment.
I'll go on next.
For the container we want to select our container from the Azure Container Registry.
I'll select my existing registry.
Select my PHP app, select the v1 tag.
We can leave the workload profile as it is.
I'll click on next.
We do want to enable traffic to come into the container Apps environment, so I'll mentioned it as port
80 this for our PHP based application.
And just for now I'll also allow insecure connections in terms of HTTP traffic.
Now note at this point in time we have not mentioned the MySQL container when we're creating the container
app environment.
Why the wizard?
Currently, I could only see the option of providing the details of one container image.
But then after we have the container app in place, we can go ahead and add additional container images.
I'll go on to review and create and let's create the container app environment.
Let's wait till we have this environment in place.
And then we'll go ahead and create a new container.
Once the deployment is complete I'll go on to the resource itself.
So for the container app application what I'll do is let me go on to the containers.
And we have the ability to create a new container onto this container app environment.
So I'll choose that.
I want to create a new app container, give a name of my SQL courses, click on create.
Say that I want to pick this up from the Azure Container Registry.
Give the details of the MySQL course accordingly.
I'll save this as a new revision, and now it should kind of deploy that container also onto our app
container environment.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Alright, so once this is done, let me go on to the overview of the container app environment.
We get something known as an application URL, so I'll copy this application URL onto the clipboard.
In a new browser tab.
Let me go onto the Container Apps environment itself.
And you can see we are getting our list of courses.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to go through how we can work with container apps environment.
Now that we are done I'll go ahead and delete the entire environment itself.

--- Lab - Azure Web Apps - Container deployment ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to showcase that you can run a container using the Azure Web
App Service.
This is possible.
We had seen earlier on how we could just publish our code.
Publish our code means in the sense we basically went a different way around in terms of creating our
PHP based file within the Azure Web app, but normally you would publish your code.
I said from a dev based environment you would give the code to your administrator.
But apart from this publishing code onto Azure Web app, you can also deploy a container based on an
image.
Now as an example, we have a PHP app image located in our Azure Container Registry.
I'm going to be using the image of latest that has the simplest version of our PHP based application.
The reason I'm doing this is if I try to deploy B1.
B1 expects that there'll be a database server running on that loopback address of 127.0.0.1.
See, I created this newer version of the image to run it as a part of a container group, so that this
there is a dependency that this PHP app image or sorry, the container needs to run alongside a container
that has the MySQL database server within an Azure container group.
If I deploy this v1 image onto the Azure Web app, it would expect that the database container also
runs within the Azure Web app environment itself, but that's not possible with Azure Web Apps.
You'll only run the web part of your application.
So if you have a database server running elsewhere, you could be running it on Azure VM, or maybe
running it on Azure Based Services.
At that point in time, you can change your image in such a way that it connects to that remote database,
and then you can deploy the container accordingly.
I hope you understood.
In the web app service, you are only running the container for the web application itself.
So as I'm using the older version, that's the latest with the latest tag.
This is quite easy to do so in all resources.
If I go ahead and click on create again we'll select the Web App resource, the existing resource group.
Just giving a name for the Azure Web app, I don't need a default host name.
You can see in terms of publish we have code and container.
So this time I can choose container.
We can decide again on the OS.
I'll leave it as Linux because my underlying container is based on a Linux based environment.
Let me go and choose central US for the region in terms of the pricing plan.
I'll choose the free plan.
That should be good enough for us.
In the container now we have another tab.
We can mention that we want to pick up our container from the Azure Container Registry Service.
What is the name of the image?
It is PHP app.
What is the tag?
It is the latest tag.
I want to expose port 80.
In terms of the authentication, I'll choose the admin credentials.
I'll just give the same name here.
Networking.
One is secure.
I don't think we'll get application insights, but that's fine.
I just want to have the web app running based on our container.
Let's go on to review and create.
See what's wrong.
We need to choose PHP app.
Choose the latest.
Let's do this again.
Go on to review and create and create the web app.
I'm only choosing central US because I believe early on when I selected East US as a region, I was
not able to deploy the web application and just making sure that the web app is deployed.
I'm choosing another region of central US.
That's the only reason why I chose central US has the region of choice for this particular demo, so
let's wait till the deployment is complete.
Now once done as always for the web application, we are going to get a default domain name.
I'll copy this onto the clipboard.
Let me paste this in a new browser tab.
I can now see the PHP based application running out of a container.
In this chapter, briefly, just want to go through how you can run a container using Azure Web App
Service.

--- Networking 101 - Networks, devices and IP addresses - Basics ---

Hi and welcome on to this section.
So in this section we are going to be covering the networking aspect when it comes onto the AZ 104 exam.
But first, just for the benefit of those students who are not familiar from a networking aspect, I
want to go through a few chapters to cover some basic aspects.
So for example, I want to cover what exactly is a network, what are IP addresses, so on and so forth.
And then we'll start moving on to building virtual networks on Azure.
So what is a network.
A network is just devices actually talking to each other.
Plus you have addresses that help to identify the devices on the networks.
And you have rules that define how messages are sent across devices.
If you look at large organizations, what they do is they build data centers within these data centers,
they set up servers.
These servers are used for hosting applications.
You have users who use workstations.
So all of these servers, workstations, devices, etc. they have to be connected together.
They are connected via the use of a network.
You have physical switches and routers in place that help to build the network.
Switches are devices that are used to normally route traffic within a local area network.
And routers are devices that are normally used to route traffic between networks.
Even if you look at your home setup and you have your Wi-Fi router, you have your laptops and you have
your devices.
In such a case, even your home Wi-Fi router behaves as a network device.
Your laptop.
your mobile devices are all actually part of a home network.
The devices within the home network get their own private IP addresses that help to identify each device
on the network.
The home Wi-Fi router behaves as something known as the default gateway.
It gets its own IP address at the same time.
Your home Wi-Fi router also behaves as a setup that takes the traffic from, you know, the request
from your laptop, your mobile devices, etc. and routes it onto the internet.
So even at home, if you don't know it, your devices when you connect onto the home Wi-Fi router,
they're all part of a network.
In this chapter we're going to start very simple.
We want to set the premise when it comes onto what exactly is a network.

--- Networking 101 - IP addresses ---

In the prior chapter, we set kind of a base wherein we had an introduction, a simple introduction
onto networks.
In this chapter, I want to go through IP addresses.
I mentioned that for even your home network, your devices actually get assigned an IP address.
For example, you might have a laptop that might get an IP address of 192.168.0.2.
Your Wi-Fi router, which acts as a default gateway.
It gets one IP address of, let's say, 192.168.0.1.
All your devices take this as the default gateway onto the internet.
This IP address of 192.168.0.1 is visible to your devices internally, at the same time, the internet
services This provider provides you with an with a public IP address that is also a sign onto the router.
So what is this IP address.
So any time devices need to talk to each other they need to have these unique identifiers.
And that is what is an IP address.
It's a number that helps to identify a device on a network.
And it tells routers on how to send packets.
If you look at an IP address, the IP address is just basically a string of binary numbers.
It's you know, currently most devices are based on IP version four IPv4 addresses are 32 bits.
What is a bit a bit is either a representation of 0 or 1.
The IP address is split into four octets of eight bits each.
We write them in the dotted notation, wherein for example I said 192.
This would be the binary equivalent of that octet.
168.
This is the binary equivalent.
So on and so forth.
So in the end the IP address which is currently based on IP version four, we also have IP version six.
It's 32 bits in nature.
They are separated by the dot notation.
And we have four octets of eight bits each.
If we look at an IP address there are actually two parts that it is packed into one number.
One part is the network.
This identifies which network the address belongs to.
And then finally you have the address of the host.
If you take an example of a virtual machine hosted in a network, so the network has its defined address
and the virtual machine has its defined address, so that together forms the address of the virtual
machine itself.
So as an example here, 192.168.0 we can say that 192.168.0 is the network address and 20 is the address
of the host.
How do you actually come to this number?
Well, this is done via the use of.
something known as specifying either an address prefix or using a Cidr block.
So, for example, if I say that the IP address range would be or the Cidr block would be 192.168.0.0,
that means the first 24 bits.
So the first 24 bits are assigned for the network.
It's the network address, and the last eight bits are what are available for the host machines within
the network.
So in this chapter I want to go a step further.
I first want to explain what is an IP address.
What constitutes an IP address.
And then briefly we went on to the network portion of an IP address and the host portion.
Let's now move on to the next chapter.

--- Networking 101 - Subnet Mask and CIDR blocks ---

Now, in the prior chapters, we had kind of a very brief overview on the concept of having networks
in place.
We understand that devices on a network need to have an IP address, but how do we carve out one big
address space into smaller, routable chunks?
That's where we make use of something known as Cidr blocks and subnet mask.
What exactly is a Cidr block or a subnet mask?
So the subnet mask is just a 32 bit number that tells us that which part of an IP version four address,
you know, it breaks it down onto a network portion and a host portion within a mask bit is set as one.
That position belongs to the network, and if it's zero, it belongs to the host.
Has an example here.
So as an example, if I have.
An IP address range of 10.0.0.0, and we say that the subnet mask is
255.255.255.0255
means all of the eight bits are marked as one.
This also means that this entire portion the entire first set of octets three octets.
This belongs to the network, and the last octet belongs to the host.
The subnet mask is, I said, just a 30 bit number that tells us which part of the entire IP version
four address breaks it down into the network and the host portion.
Then what is the Cidr block?
So Cidr stands for classless Inter-domain routing.
It gives us another way of representing an IP address range in terms of signifying what parts are part
of the network and what parts are part of the host.
Again, if you take the similar example of 10.0.0.0 this time, if I say slash 24, this is a Cidr block.
Slash 24 means that the first 24 bits are marked again for the network, and the last eight bits are
marked for the host.
I'm giving another example here when it comes onto a Cidr block.
If we have slash 25, the subnet mask would be 55.255.255.128.
If you look at having slash 28 has the sign of prefix, the total number of IP addresses that you can
get that can be assigned is 128.
But normally as part of a network, two addresses are reserved.
One is for the network address and the other is known as the broadcast address.
In this chapter, I kind of want to give that brief overview when it comes on to having a subnet mask
in place and a Cidr block.
Obviously, when we start working with virtual networks on Azure, we're going to start building networks
and subnets and carving out IP address spaces in these first set of chapters, just for the benefit
of students who are not familiar with the concept of a network, with the concept of an IP address,
with the concept of Cidr blocks.
I want to go kind of through this basic chapters.
Now let's move on to Azure and start working with the networking services that are available on the
platform itself.

--- Introduction to Virtual Networks in Azure ---

Notes on the chapters I've given kind of a very modest overview when it comes onto the network, when
it comes onto the IP address and the Cidr block.
Now it's time to move on to Azure and look at building Azure virtual networks.
I mean, we've already seen this in the section of compute there when we build a virtual machine.
In the end, the wizard creates a virtual network for us because the machine needs to be part of a network.
See, anyway, I said in a data center, if you have servers, if you have workstations, if they need
to communicate with each other, they have to be part of a network.
Even in your home network.
Right.
In order for organizations to kind of build that network.
So you need to have, I said, switches in place, routers in place, cabling in place.
There are a lot of aspects that need to be carried out in order to build that network and maintain it.
And over time, when you have a lot of devices in place in your organization, this can get a little
bit messy.
In Azure, everything is virtual for you.
The entire network is managed the physical infrastructure in Azure, you can just go ahead and build
something known as a virtual network.
You don't have to worry about the cabling.
You don't have to worry about the switches, you don't have to worry about the routers, etc..
The Azure Virtual Network is an Azure network on the cloud.
The network is similar to networks that you set up within your on premises data centers.
Once you have a network in place, you can start deploying resources.
Again, we know about the subscription.
We know about the resource group.
When building a virtual network, you mention a name and an address space for the network.
This is a private address space.
Azure then assigns IP addresses from the address space to the resources within the virtual network.
And then we have subnets.
Subnets give the ability to segment the virtual network into multiple network subnetworks.
Each subnet is also assigned an address space.
This address space is a subset of the address space of the virtual network itself.
So let's move on to the next chapter and build a simple virtual network in Azure.

--- Lab - Building an Azure virtual network ---

Now in this chapter, let's build an Azure Virtual Network.
We know that networks are created by default when we create an Azure VM.
So the wizard creates a network for us.
It also creates something known as subnet within the network.
But since the virtual network is a separate resource altogether, we can actually build the virtual
network first and then launch VMs into the network.
In this chapter, let's take a very simple example of building a network along with a subnet in Azure.
I don't have any resources in place currently as part of my account.
Let me click on create.
So I'm in the All Resources view.
Let's click on Create and Create now a new resource based on the virtual network.
So I'll search for Virtual network in the marketplace.
I'm looking at virtual network from Microsoft.
Let's create a resource based on this service.
As usual we get a wizard.
Ah, my Azure subscription.
Now, I don't have a resource group in place, so let me go ahead and create.
A new resource group.
We'll place our virtual network in the East US location.
Let's go ahead and give the name for the network.
So in terms of I said you can have any naming conventions.
I'm putting VNet to simplify that.
It's a virtual network.
I'm saying this is part of my dev environment.
This is the region east US.
And it's putting zero one.
Go on to next.
I won't enable any security as of yet.
I'll go on to next.
We can now decide on the IP addresses.
Now when it comes on to this IP address.
So here we have to define the IP address range or the Cidr block for our network.
This is a private IP address range.
We'll go into more details on what our private IP addresses.
We get a better understanding as we go through the entire labs in this section.
So we have private IP addresses and public IP addresses with private IP addresses.
The traffic is routed within the network itself.
That's why it's private in nature.
Public IP addresses are wherein traffic can be routed onto the internet.
Here we are defining the range the IP address range for the network.
The Cidr block for the network based on private IP address ranges.
The standard private IP address ranges are.
So we have 10.0.0.0/8.
Then we have
Dot 16 .0.0 slash 12 and 192.168.
So these are standards that have already been defined on what should be your private IP address ranges
here by default in terms of our network.
It's giving an IP address range of one.
Sorry ten .0.0.0 slash 16.
This means that the first 16 bits are being used for the network, and the remaining 16 bits can be
used for the host addresses.
Using slash 16, you will see in total the number of addresses that are available.
Then we have something known as subnets.
I'll cover subnets in the next chapter.
Subnets is just a carving out of the virtual network.
So here we are getting another address range for the subnet.
Before I can just explain the address range, let me make sure that I click on edit.
Just want to change the name has per our diagram.
So we can put the name of the subnet.
There are different purposes.
We'll go through these purposes later on.
This is based on the IP address range of the virtual network.
We are now giving an IP address range or a Cidr block for this subnet has ten .0.0.0 slash 24.
This is a subset of the address range of the virtual network.
So what would be the you know what is the address range or the Cidr block of the virtual network.
It's 10.0.0.0 slash 16.
This.
So this IP address is a subset of the IP address of the virtual network.
We'll understand this again a little bit better.
If you're a little bit confused when we build another subnet in our virtual network.
For now let's leave this as it is.
So we have our subnet also defined.
There are other aspects but I won't change anything.
I'll click on save.
Let's go on to the final screen.
So what we are doing is we are creating a virtual network.
This is the name of the network.
This is the address space of the network.
There'll be one subnet with this name.
And this is the address space of the subnet.
Let's click on create.
Let's mark it in on this chapter.
And let's move on to the next.
Where in I'll just go through an overview when it comes on to subnets within your virtual network.

--- Understanding subnets ---

I've come back.
The deployment of my virtual network is complete.
I can go on to the resource itself.
So we are on the virtual network resource.
We can see the resource group.
It's in East US.
We can see the address space for the virtual network.
If I go on to the subnets.
So we have our subnet in place.
It has its own address range.
In this chapter let's briefly go over the concept of subnets.
The virtual networks help to define a private IP address in Azure.
The subnets help to slice the network into smaller chunks that can be managed separately.
The subnets itself have their own Cidr prefix or a Cidr block.
This is a subset of the address space of the virtual network.
With the help of subnets, we can segregate workloads.
Apply different security rules for each subnet.
You know, as an example, we could have a simple virtual network that has three subnets.
You can have one subnet that is used for hosting the web servers, another subnet for hosting the application
servers, and another subnet for hosting the database servers.
What you're doing is you are carving out different parts of the virtual network and then hosting workloads
within the subnet itself.
So you're trying to create layers within the network and then host different types of servers in each
subnet.
If we look at the address range that I've given for the subnet.
So I said let's uh, we have the address range of the virtual network here.
The first 16 bits are used for the network, and the last 16 bits can be used for the host addressing.
But what we're doing is we are making use of this particular octet to now break it down even further
into smaller networks.
We are using this octet to define now our subnets.
So as you know, for if you take now the network which is a constant and the changing third octet,
what are the possible numbers that you can get.
So 1.0.0 we can get 10.0.110.0.2 all the way down, right till 254.
So now all of these can become the network address for your subnets.
I'm saying that let's now use the first 24 bits out of this range for defining our subnets.
So in this way we can start having multiple subnets all the way down.
And then within these subnets we can host our machines.
Just trying to break down the concept even further when it comes onto the usage of subnets.
I'm just giving some information based on the architecture that I have here in the web subnet, you
could host something known as application gateway machines that is getting traffic from the internet
from your users.
So this would accept traffic from the internet.
Then you have let's say the app based subnet.
This holds the virtual machines that actually host the actual application.
And you could have a database subnet that hosts your database machines.
If you're looking from a security aspect in terms of traffic routing, I say the entire purpose of having
subnets is to segregate your workloads, and then you can have rules that actually define the traffic
that's moving across these subnets.
So for the web subnet that is the front facing subnet you can have traffic coming in or allowed from
the internet.
No traffic from the internet should be allowed onto machines in the app and the database subnet.
So these are internal subnets.
Machines in the web, subnet should be able to communicate with machines in the application subnet,
and then application subnet machine should be able to work with database machines.
If you're familiar with these sort of base architecture, where in the flow comes from the internet,
from your users onto, let's say, a web layer, and then from the web layer, they move on to the app
layer.
And then from the app layer they can move on to the database layer.
Just a quick note when it comes onto Azure Subnets, the smallest range that you can define for a subnet
the Azure Subnet is slash 29.
Azure reserves the first IP, the first five IP addresses for each subnet.
So for example if you have this has the address prefix for subnet uh one is reserved for the network
address.
One IP is reserved for the Azure's default gateway.
There are a couple which are reserved for Azure provided DNS and the last one for the broadcast address.
So in this chapter briefly want to go through the concept of subnets within virtual networks.

--- Lab - Deploying an Azure virtual machine to the network ---

Now, in this chapter, let's deploy a virtual machine onto our network.
In the section of compute.
There we would launch the machine and the wizard would create the network for us.
Here we have first build the network, and now we want to deploy the machine onto the network itself.
We'll base this machine again on Ubuntu Server.
And please note that the focus of this section is on networking.
So once we have the machine in place, let's inspect aspects such as the private IP address, the public
IP address, the IP configuration.
Okay.
Going on to Azure, what I'll do is let me right click and open virtual machines in a new tab.
Just want to have one tab for our virtual network.
Let's go ahead and create a new VM.
We're already very familiar with this process.
I'll select my existing resource group.
Let me give the VM name that I've defined here Now our virtual network is in East US.
Hence we have to deploy the machine in East US itself.
I don't want any infrastructure redundancy.
Ubuntu server.
The size is fine.
I'll select password.
Let's give the required details.
Only the selected ports has there.
Leave the disk.
Let's go on to networking.
So networking has detected that we do have a virtual network and a subnet.
It's going to create a new public IP address.
That's fine.
Let's go on to the final screen of review and create.
And let's create this machine.
So initially we only had one resource in Azure and that was the virtual network.
We also have the network Watcher resource.
Don't worry we'll be going through this later on.
But our main resource and focus is the virtual network.
Now we are deploying a VM within this network.
Once the validation is complete, I'll click on create.
Let's wait till we have the machine in place.
Now once the deployment of the machine is complete.
So again we get a link to go onto the VM itself.
So this is fine.
If I go onto all resources, if I click on refresh I should see the VM.
I should see the public IP address, the network security group, the network interface and the disk.
We are already well aware of these resources that come as part of the VM.
So going on to the VM itself, we have the network settings.
And in the overview we can see the public IP address assigned onto the machine.
And if you scroll down we can see that there is one network interface assigned to this machine.
And we have a private IP address.
If I go on to the network settings there Also, we can see the details about the network interface.
So there's a network interface assigned onto your machine, similar to our laptops or workstations that
also have network interface cards inbuilt.
They are already present.
Similarly we have a virtual network interface.
So all of the traffic that's flowing in and out of the machine actually flows via the network interface.
Your network interface is like the gateway from the machine to the outside world to other machines.
Now the network interface is assigned a private IP address 10.0.0.4.
This private IP address is come out from the IP address range of your subnet.
The VM is also assigned by Azure, a public IP address.
So Azure has a set of public IP addresses.
One of them has been assigned onto your machine With the help of the public IP address.
Traffic from the internet can actually reach your virtual machine with the help of the private IP address.
Internal resources, like other virtual machines within the network itself, can reach this machine.
So the virtual network interface has been assigned a public IP address and a private IP address.
Actually, the private IP address is directly assigned onto the network interface.
If I actually go on to all resources in another tab.
And let's go on to the network interface resource, which is also important.
Here if I go onto settings, we have something known as the IP configurations.
In IP configurations we can see that this particular network interface is part of a subnet which is
part of the virtual network.
And it has been assigned a private IP address.
This private IP address, and this public IP address is part of an IP configuration.
So each network interface will get an IP configuration.
If I click on this IP configuration so we can see that it has been assigned basically a private IP address.
And here this network interface is linked onto the public IP address resource.
See the public IP address is a separate resource in Azure.
So this network interface has been linked onto the public IP address via the ipconfig resource itself.
The setting basically.
Sorry.
So in this chapter you know the main purpose was just to understand that when we deploy the VM, the
VM gets a network interface.
The network interface has an IP configuration.
That IP configuration is associated with a private IP address.
That private IP address has come from the subnet.
And it's also linked onto a public IP address.
That's a separate resource altogether.

--- Lab - Let’s deploy another machine to another subnet ---

Now, in this chapter, let's, uh, deploy another VM onto our virtual network.
This time around, I mean, it's going to be based on Ubuntu Server.
Again, let's imagine that we're going to be having a database server on this new VM.
For this, let's first of all deploy a new subnet.
This subnet will have its own IP address range.
And then we'll deploy a new machine onto the subnet.
This time around let's not assign any public IP address onto this machine.
Normally when you're hosting a database workload that's having your data, you normally don't want to
expose the resources.
You know, the database server onto the internet.
That's why mostly you will not assign a public IP address.
And this is something that you can do.
It's not necessary that you need to have a public IP assign onto the network interface, not mandatory.
This means that now.
traffic from the internet cannot reach the database server.
And that's fine, I told you.
Mostly it is the resources within your web layer that need to communicate internally with your database
layer.
So let's go onto Azure.
And first let me go ahead and actually create the subnet.
So what I can do is I can go onto the virtual network.
So there's actually a separate virtual networks view here I can go onto the subnets.
So we have one subnet in place.
Let me go ahead and create a new one.
I'll put in the name.
There is something known as a subnet purpose.
We'll actually be going through the Azure Bastion subnet later on.
This will be used for a different service known as Azure Bastion.
So these are special type of Subnets that are required by certain services.
For us, the purpose is default because it's serving a custom purpose of ours wherein we want to host
a workload.
We want to host database servers.
This is the main IP address range of the virtual network.
It is giving us a starting IP address of this subnet.
I'll leave it as it is.
So ten .0.1.0.
Slash 24 is a size that means remember the first three octets are going to be used.
Now has the network address of the subnet.
I'll click on add.
So all we're doing is we're adding an empty subnet onto the virtual network.
Now once done let me go on to virtual machines and let me create a new VM.
I said let's imagine that this is hosting a database workload.
I'll select my resource group, give the virtual machine name.
Needs to be in the same region as our virtual network based on Ubuntu Server.
I'll just specify a password.
Go to next.
With this networking.
In networking, I have to make sure that this is part of the database subnet.
So here you will see your web subnet and your database subnet I'm choosing my DB subnet.
I do want a public IP address.
So I'll mark this as none.
I'll go on to review and create.
And let's create the virtual machine.
So let's come back once the deployment of the machine is complete.
Now once done let me go on to our new VM.
So the new VM will have again its own network interface.
We can see that it has been assigned a private IP address from the IP address range of the subnet.
It has not been linked onto a public IP address.
If we go on to the network interface, I can go to the network interface from here as well.
And it will take me onto the network interface resource.
Here we can see that it is attached onto the virtual machine.
It is attached onto the network security group.
We'll go through this later on.
But if I go onto the IP configurations we can go onto the ipconfig in ipconfig.
You can see that it is not linked onto any public IP address.
If you want you can click on associate and it will create a new public IP address resource for you.
So even later on, you can create a new public IP address and assign it onto the network interface.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter where in we have our new VM within our network.

--- Understanding IP addresses ---

In this chapter.
I want to give that brief note again when it comes on to IP addressing.
So we have the private IP address.
This is the IP address that's coming in from the IP address range of the subnet.
These addresses are not routable over the public internet.
Then we have the public IP addresses.
These are routable over the global internet with the help of the public IP addresses.
Resources from the internet can communicate with the virtual machine in terms of public IP addresses.
We are going to be dealing mostly with static IP addresses.
Here.
The address is assigned during the creation of the public IP address itself, and the IP address is
only released when you delete the resource.
This was just a quick note for you all in terms of the private and the public IP addresses.

--- Lab - Adding a secondary network interface ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I just briefly want to showcase that we can assign an additional network interface
to an Azure VM.
In our demos, we are only going to be using the primary network interface.
So for each Azure VM you get a primary network interface.
We've already seen this.
That network interface has an IP config that ipconfig gets a private IP address, and it can be linked
onto a public IP address.
You can assign a new network, you know, a secondary network interface to your VM.
This can be used in certain scenarios wherein someone is giving an example of a scenario here.
If there is traffic coming in from the internet, let's say, on to a set of machines within your virtual
network.
You first want the traffic to flow via a VM.
That VM might behave as a network appliance, wherein it could have some sort of security based software
running on it.
That security based software would first inspect the traffic coming from the internet, and then it
would forward the traffic onto the machines if it deems safe, you know, if it deems the request safe,
it will forward the request onto the machines in the internal network.
So these machines are not exposed to the internet.
It's like the traffic is coming via an intermediate virtual machine.
So in this case, you could have one network interface that has a public IP address that is responsible
for taking the network traffic from the internet, and then the forwarding is done by another network
interface attached onto the same machine.
Now, for the purpose of this exam, we don't need to go through this entire implementation on because
there's a lot that need to be done at the OS level as well to make sure that the routing works.
In this chapter, I just briefly want to showcase how we can create and assign a secondary network interface.
So if I go on to any VM, let me go on to.
Our VM onto the network settings.
In the network settings, there should be a setting wherein we can attach a network interface.
Let me click on this option.
Now it's telling me that this operation cannot be performed on a running VM.
That means I will need to first of all, stop and deallocate this machine.
Let me go ahead and do this.
Let's wait till the machine is in this stop state.
Now, once the VM is in the stop Deallocate state, let's go back onto the network settings.
Let's try the operation again of attach network interface.
Now it's telling me that there are no network interfaces available to attach.
So what we have to do is we have to first of all create a new resource based on the network interface
service.
This particular screen will allow you to create and attach a network interface.
But let's do one thing.
Let me create.
A new resource.
So I'll click on create.
So there should be a type of resource that we can create that's known as the network interface.
Let me create a new resource here.
So I'll choose my existing resource group.
I'll give the name since it's already present.
I'll just name this as secondary for now.
In order for this network interface to be attached onto our VM, we have to launch this network interface
in the same region, has our virtual network, and we have to make sure that it is deployed to our existing
virtual network and to our subnet.
Why is this the case?
Remember that the network interface gets a private IP address from the subnet.
So here, since I want to attach this network interface onto my web based machine, I'm saying that
let's launch this new network interface in my existing virtual network.
And in the subnet within the virtual network it's based on IP version four.
In terms of the private, we can again keep it as dynamic or static.
Static is if we don't want the IP address to change over time.
I'll go on to review and create.
And let's create this network interface first.
And once we have this in place we should be able to attach it onto the VM accordingly.
So I'll click on create and let's wait for the deployment to complete.
Once the deployment is complete we can go on to the secondary network interface.
We can see its details.
But what we'll do is let's try this again.
Let's see if it does detect that we do have.
Yes.
So now we can choose that secondary network interface and click on okay.
And now it's attaching this network interface onto the Azure VM.
Let's wait till this is complete.
So once done we can see our primary network interface and a secondary one okay I told you if you want
to implement the entire scenario there's a lot that we have to do at the OS level not required from
an exam perspective.
Okay.
Now that we are done, I'll just perform a cleanup because I want to go back to my previous state.
First and foremost, I will detach my secondary network interface and once this is done, I'll go ahead
and just delete the interface itself.
Right.
So I'll mark it in onto this chapter and let's move on to the next.

--- About Network Security Groups ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters, we are going to go into extensive details when it comes to working
with network security groups, because it is important from an exam perspective.
First and foremost, I want to explain what our network security groups.
We've already kind of seen this in the section of compute.
You know, if you go on to a virtual machine, if you go onto the network settings, you will see here
a set of inbound port rules and a set of outbound rules.
You have the ability to add an inbound rule and an outbound rule.
And this is actually coming in from the network security group.
That's a separate resource altogether.
This NSG is actually linked onto your network interface.
So what exactly is this energy or this network security group?
So it's a lightweight, stateful packet filter that you can attach to either a network interface or
a subnet.
So you can't attach it onto the entire virtual network.
It's only onto a network interface or a subnet.
You get here.
You can add inbound and outbound rules that allow or deny traffic.
Now these rules are stateful in nature.
That means that if an inbound request is allowed, the return traffic is also allowed.
When you define a rule and don't worry, we'll be going through extensive labs on defining rules.
You specify or configure several aspects.
One of them is the direction.
So are you creating an inbound or an outbound rule?
What is the priority of the rule?
The lower the priority, it gets evaluated.
First, what is the action?
Is it an allow or deny rule?
What is a protocol?
TCP, UDP, ICMP or any?
What is the source of the request?
It can be either a Cidr, Cidr block, basically a server stack, or something known as an application
security group.
This also goes for the destination.
And then you have the source and the destination port number.
By default within an NSG you get the default rules.
Let me just go on Azure to explain the default rules.
I'll just hide this.
So we have the default inbound rules.
Please note that you cannot Delete or modify these rules.
In terms of the inbound rules, we have one rule to allow traffic within the entire virtual network.
We have another that allows traffic from an Azure load balancer.
And then the final one is actually a deny rule to deny all other traffic.
You can see for each rule you have, what is the name, the priority?
What is the port number, the protocol, the source, the destination?
And what is the final action?
For the outbound rules, we have a rule to allow all traffic outbound within a virtual network.
We have a rule that allows outbound traffic onto the internet.
And we have another rule to deny all other outbound traffic.
So we need to go through a variety of labs when it comes down to working with network security groups.
So let's move ahead on to the next chapters.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Getting started ---

Now, just to get started with the Nsgs, let's implement the following in our lab.
Firstly, I'll install nginx on our web server.
I'll create an inbound rule to allow traffic from the internet onto the web based machine.
For this rule, if we want, we can be more specific when it comes onto the source and the destination
IP address.
And remember that currently when it comes on to the default network security groups that are defined
via the browser, when you create a VM, they are attached onto the individual network interfaces.
So first and foremost let me go on to.
The virtual machines.
So for VM.
Since there is an And inbound rule.
So if we go on to the network settings, there should be an inbound rule that allows traffic on port
22.
This is from anywhere.
That means I should be able to perform a secure shell onto the machine.
So I'll copy the public IP address.
Go on to command Prompt and within Command prompt.
Let me connect on to the machine.
I'm connected onto the machine.
So first and foremost let me update the package index.
And then we'll install nginx.
By the way if you are going through this series of chapters, remember for this machine, we had gone
ahead and stopped the machine when adding the network interface.
So make sure that you start this machine again.
Otherwise, obviously you will not be able to connect to the machine itself.
Now let me install the nginx package.
This means now that we have a web server running on this machine.
Now, because we have a web server running on this machine.
Remember that in order to allow requests now from our own machine via the internet to reach port 80.
See, what we're doing is we want to send a simple HTTP request onto the default page of nginx.
And nginx can listen for traffic on port 80.
So now on your VM.
Right on the VM now.
You have nginx has a web server that is listening on port 80.
That means we can send requests onto the machine to connect to port 80 and it will be served by the
nginx service, but by default because of the network security groups.
There is no rule to allow traffic on port 80, so by default, what's going to happen is if we just
go on to the network security group.
So this is now let me go on to the network settings.
As for the web machine.
So for the web machine, when we send a request from our laptop, what's going to happen is that request
is going to be blocked by this loss default rule of deny all inbound traffic.
That's why the request from our laptop will not be able to reach this machine on port 80.
So let's go ahead and create a rule here.
I'm going to choose to create an inbound rule because here we are creating a rule for the inbound traffic
that's coming onto the machine itself.
When you define the rule, you first specify what is the source of traffic.
Is the source coming from a particular IP address?
Is it coming from my IP address.
So if I click on my IP address this wizard will automatically detect what is the public IP address assigned
onto your laptop.
Or actually, basically it's not the public IP that's actually assigned onto your laptop.
It's like a you know, remember that home network?
In the home network, your Wi-Fi router has the public IP address.
This is the public facing IP address that has been assigned by the internet services provider.
Your machine actually gets a private IP address but your Wi-Fi router performs kind of a network address
translation, uh, wherein it is able to take the request from your machine and forward it onto the
internet.
Well, in this case, this wizard can understand, okay, what public IP address is kind of exposed
to your local laptop, your local machine.
Right.
So for my laptop, what is my IP address?
So if you want to limit, uh, just the source of the rule, you can choose my IP address.
We can choose something known as a service tag, or we can choose an application security group.
For now, let me keep it as any in my diagram I have placed in.
So if I go on to the diagram for the lab on nsgs, you're on the right hand side, just as an example,
I've given that you can put my IP address.
If I said if you select my IP address, this will automatically detect what is the IP address kind of
assign onto your machine, onto your laptop, your laptop, your local machine.
Next is the destination okay.
You want to add a rule to allow traffic onto what destination?
I could place any.
That means this rule will apply to traffic coming on to any destination machine, or it can be very
specific.
I can put in the IP address.
Now I'm going to put in what is the private IP address of my web based machine.
So remember that for your web based machine, the private IP address is .0.4.
So I am saying that let this rule apply to traffic coming in from anywhere, but only if the traffic
is going on to a machine with a private IP address of 10.0.0.4, then this rule will be applied in terms
of the service.
There are various inbuilt services.
I will click on HTP because I want this rule to apply to HTP request.
The protocol for HTTP request is port 80.
I can give a priority and give a name for the request and then I can click on add.
Just a quick note before I add the rule.
Students generally ask me why are you putting the private IP address of the machine when we send a request.
Okay, let me do one thing.
Let me click on add quickly.
I'll tell you what is the query in a moment's time.
Let me just add the rule.
See, now when we want to send a request right to the machine, what do we do?
We take the public IP address of the machine.
I'll go on to a new browser tab.
Right.
In order to reach the nginx web server, we are going via the public IP address of the machine.
So students ask me in that rule has the destination of the machine.
Why are you specifying the private IP address?
Why not the public IP address?
Because you are sending a request onto the public IP address.
Well, what happens in Azure is when you send a request onto the VM's public IP address.
Azure performs something known as Nat or network address translation.
Here what happens is the request is converted to going to the private IP address of the machine.
So by the time the NSG sees the packet of information that's coming in from your machine, that packet
will have the destination IP address of, you know, the private IP address.
So your request goes onto Azure.
First, Azure converts that public IP address onto the private IP address of the machine.
And then the request goes to the NSG.
So in the end the NSG is seeing the private IP address.
That's why in the rule we specify the destination has the private IP address of the machine.
In this chapter, we want to go through the getting started of Nsgs.
We still have a lot more to cover.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Understanding priorities ---

Hi and welcome back.
So in this journey of understanding details about Nsgs in this chapter, let's understand about the
priority setting.
This is very important when it comes onto your rules.
See, what we have so far is we have, uh, if I go on to the network settings of our web based machine,
uh, please note that again, I said this particular settings of the inbound and the outbound rules
are coming in from if I go on to all resources in another tab, we have the specific NSG, which is
a separate resource altogether.
This NSG is a sign on to the network interface of the web based machine.
So we can see it is assigned here.
So an energy can be assigned onto either a network interface or onto a subnet.
Here we can individually assign the inbound and the outbound rules.
So whatever is coming up here is a reflection of what is defined in the NSG itself.
So here also we can add an inbound rule and we can add an outbound security rule.
It just getting reflected here because the energy is assigned onto the network interface.
So now it's time to understand about the priority.
Let me go ahead and just hide this.
So let's add the rule from here.
We have this priority in place for our user defined rules and also for the default rules.
But we know that we can't change the priority or change any fact for the default rules.
So when I send a request from my machine, my request is for the destination of the web based machine.
Here the rule is saying that the source can come in from anywhere, and we are targeting this particular
port number.
So our request is being allowed onto the VM.
Now let me do one thing as an example.
Let's add a deny rule.
Specifically deny rule.
I'll click on add here.
For the source, let's leave it as any for the destination.
So as per our diagram what am I doing is let's add a rule where in.
The destination is for the same private IP address.
But we are putting now a port range which we can do.
This time the service is going to be custom.
We are going to put the protocol as TCP which we can do or we can put any as well.
But when we send a request via the HTTP protocol on port number 80, it's basically a TCP are sent via
the TCP protocol.
And we're going to put deny and put a priority.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So the source is any.
The destination is the IP address of the machine.
We can now put a custom port range.
So a range from 70 to 100.
TCP.
This time the action is deny.
Let me put a priority of 290 and just say deny custom traffic.
I'm just giving a name and click on add.
What you'll notice is the rule will come up now first in the list wherein it is deny custom traffic.
Now the question is can you reach the web server running on our web machine?
Can you secure shell or the machine?
So these two queries can you do this.
Now first and foremost let's try to refresh this page.
You'll see it's actually not coming up now.
It's not able to reach the web server.
And after some time, you should get an error message saying that it's not able to reach the web page.
This will happen in a moment's time.
But why is this not working now?
Why are we not able to reach this page?
Well, what happens is.
So our request will first come onto the NSG.
The NSG will start evaluating the rules in the order of priority.
Our rule will actually match.
Sorry.
Our request will actually match the first rule because our request is targeting port number 80.
That comes in this range.
It's based on this protocol.
The source is any from my machine and it is to our target machine.
So our request is Basically fitting the first rule.
Hence the action is going to be denied.
The energy is not going to evaluate any further rule.
So it's not like it's a summation of the effects of all the rules.
No it is whatever is the first rule that matches the request, that rule will be evaluated accordingly.
So it's not going to even reach this particular rule.
That's why the priority is very, very important.
Can you secure shell.
We should be able to because port number 22 doesn't fall in this range.
So our request should be fulfilled if it comes to secure shell for the second one.
And that should not be a problem because here, you know, we can see that we are still connected onto
the machine.
So this has not been impacted in this chapter.
I want to give this important note when it comes onto the priority for your rules in your network security
groups.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Inter VM communication ---

Welcome back.
Now in this chapter let's understand the intercommunication between machines in our virtual network.
You know I basically now want to see communication across the private IP addresses.
So far we've been focusing on the NSG that takes in traffic from the internet.
Even though in our NSG we provide the destination as the private IP address of the machine.
But in the end, it's all about requests which are being targeted coming from the internet, from outside.
Now I want to go through the intercommunication of the machines via their private IP addresses.
For this, I will first delete whatever rules we have.
So in the NSG for web, let me delete the one for deny.
Let me delete all the rules.
All the custom rules.
Let's have a clean slate wherein we only have the default rules in place, because even the default
rules are important to understand.
So with this in place now, what we should know is we should not be able to reach the web server from
our laptop.
It should not be possible.
So if I try to refresh this again, it's not going to work because we don't have any rule to allow traffic
on port 80 from our laptop.
That should be very clear.
The next thing is we should not be in a position now, even though this might just take some time.
But, uh, so it seems that.
If I try to do a sudo apt update again.
So it's still, uh, it's not exactly working because, see, now, even though we have a session to
the web server.
After some time, we should not be able to connect, right?
If I try to connect to the web server again using its public IP address.
By the way, if I click on refresh here for the VM, it should reflect the fact that we only have again
the default rules in place.
I said if we try to now.
So now if we try in command prompt to secure shell on to the machine, it should not work.
We should not be able to connect.
I said in this chapter, I want us to understand from the database server, can we reach the web server
running on our web based machine?
We already know that we cannot SSH from our own machine, so we already know that.
Can we secure shell from the database machine to the web machine?
So let's try these steps out.
How can we do this.
I'm going to use the serial console.
In another tab.
Let me go on to.
The VMs.
Let's go on to the database machine.
In the database machine, since we can't secure shell from our laptop.
Let me log in via the serial console onto the machine.
Remember that the DB machine has a private IP address of 10.0.1.4.
So let me go ahead and connect.
So I said first, can we reach you know I can use a curl command to send an SP request.
Can we reach the web based machine on its private IP address.
So the web server by default is listening on the private IP address of the machine.
I told you, what Azure does is when you send a request to the public IP address, it first does a network
address translation where it translates the public to the private IP address, and then the request
is sent onto your machine.
So in the end, the web server that's nginx is listening for requests on port 80 on the private IP address
of the machine.
So if I just use the curl command you will see that okay.
We're not getting the web page as a UI, but we are getting the entire details of the web page.
That means yes from the database server.
Internally we can reach the web server running on port 80.
Can I secure shell onto the web based machine?
Using its private IP address.
What do you think?
Is it going to work?
I'll mention the password.
And now we are connected.
So if we look at the interface here, the prompt we are connected on to the web based machine.
So internally all communication is possible.
And why is that.
This is all because of the default rules.
Because of allow VNet inbound and allow VNet outbound.
If you want to initiate a communication to machines in the network, all of this is allowed by default.
And this is from any source and destination within the network itself and any port and protocol.
That's why we can secure shell and we can reach the web server running on port 80.
But remember all wire the private IP addresses.
So in this chapter I want to go through the internal communication between the machines.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Outbound rules ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give an example when it comes onto working with outbound security
rules.
So far we've been working with inbound.
Just want to give an example when it comes onto the usage of outbound security rules.
So first and foremost, let me add a rule to actually deny all sort of outbound traffic.
So let's do this for a web based machine for the web based machine.
Let me now add an outbound rule for the outbound rule again.
The source is let's keep it as any for now.
The destination.
Also let's keep it as any.
Let me just confirm based on our diagram here.
Yes, I'm putting the source and the destination has any and also the protocol.
But here I am putting a deny rule.
So let's keep it as it is.
Putting all destination port numbers.
Any protocol the action is now deny.
Let me just put in a priority and I'll say deny all traffic.
I'll click on add.
I'm actually trying to create a request.
I'm actually trying to create a rule a deny rule.
That actually supersedes all of the other rules.
So there is only one rule to allow.
All in.
Sorry.
Outbound traffic within the virtual network because now we are still focusing on internal VM communication.
So here the rule for outbound traffic across the VNet is there.
But I want to I said create a rule that supersedes all these rules, these two rules which allow traffic
and saying deny all sort of traffic this inbound rule.
So this outbound rule has been added to the NSG of our web based machine.
Now, let's try something out here.
I am actually supposed to be on the database machine, but as per our last chapter, we logged in.
Or we secured shell onto the web based machine.
I'll exit from here.
So now we are back on our database machine.
Let's try to execute the same command wherein we are sending a request onto the web server.
So this is still working.
Now I do get this request from students wherein they are saying that now you have added actually a rule
to deny all outbound traffic from the web based machine.
Then why is it right?
Why is it that I just go onto our diagram?
So they say that, you know, we are sending a request to take in port 80, and that is being allowed
by the default rule to allow traffic across the virtual network.
But obviously the response is coming in from the web based machine to the database machine.
So the web page is coming in onto the database machine.
Students will generally ask me, now that you've added an outbound rule to deny all outbound traffic,
and we have added it on to the NSG that's attached to this network interface.
So should that rule not deny this response to go through?
Well, this is the stateful nature of network security groups.
So if an inbound request is already allowed by default the outbound response will also be allowed.
So since our inbound request is allowed by the NSG, the inbound rule, hence the outbound rules is
not going to impact this response.
Then what is the benefit of adding rules in the outbound NSG?
That's what students will ask me.
Well, this is for traffic that you initiate from the machine.
What do we mean by this?
So now if I go on to.
Let's go on to the serial console.
Not of the database machine, but of the web machine.
So let's log in here since I don't have a rule for allowing secure shell.
That's why I'm using the serial console on both of these machines.
Let's log in first and let me try out something.
Okay, now that I'm logged in, let me do a sudo app update just to update the package index.
What happens here is that the machine, in order to get the package index the most recent one, it needs
to connect onto an external URL.
Basically an external site that has a public IP address and fetch the details.
But what you'll see here it is stuck in trying to connect to that external private IP address.
That is because of the outbound deny rule.
So here we are now initiating a request and outbound request from the machine.
That's why it's being denied.
In the end it's trying out the different sites.
But it's not going to work.
It'll just say unable to connect.
And that is because of that rule.
So this is, you know, an example on if you do add an outbound rule, what impact does it have to your
request?
This is for the request being initiated from your VMs.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - ICMP Protocol ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how you can add a rule that allows the ICMP protocol.
So ICMP stands for the Internet Control Message Protocol.
This is at layer three.
It's normally used for signaling and diagnostics not for carrying application data.
So a typical request is the ping request.
If you just want to see if a machine is alive or not, what you can do is you can send a ping request.
If I from a db VM the database machine.
If I do a ping and 1.0.0.4.
So this works.
We are getting a reply back and this is because of the default rule to allow traffic.
Let me just stop this Ctrl z on my keyboard.
From the web based machine.
If I do a ping.
To the database machine, it's probably not going to work.
right?
And that's because of the deny outbound rule, right?
It's not going to work.
I'll just do a control Z on my keyboard again to stop the request.
So we know about this.
Let me just quickly go on to the security groups.
Let me just do this in another tab.
Let me just remove the deny all outbound.
So we come back to our normal state for the NSG.
So we had applied it onto the NSG for the web machine right here.
I can go onto the outbound rules.
I can select the rule and click on delete.
I just want to go back to our normal state first and just going back.
Now onto the implementation of the ICMP protocol going on to the virtual machines for the web based
machine.
Here I can see the public IP address as well in this particular view.
I'll just copy the public IP address and from command prompt, if I try to ping this machine it's not
going to work.
So now we are trying to send the Or use the ping command to send a echo request and reply on to the
machine via its public IP address.
It's not going to work.
I'll just do a Ctrl Z on my keyboard to try and stop this.
In order to make this work, we can go on to the NSG for the web based machine or to the network settings.
Here, let me add an inbound port rule.
I'll put the source as any in the destination.
The destination for the private IP address of this, this web based machine.
Here in the protocol there is an ICMP version for protocol.
I'll choose this.
So this is a different type of protocol.
Just give a priority and put this as allow ICMP.
Let's click on add.
Now once we have this rule in place let's try this again shall we.
Let's try to ping.
And now we're getting the reply back.
So this is a special case in which I want to showcase that.
If you want to allow traffic the normal ping request, you can go ahead and allow traffic via the ICMP
protocol.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Two-tier architecture - Setup ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, we're going to go through an extensive lab in which we are going to install,
first of all, the MySQL database server on our database based machine.
We'll ensure that from the web based machine, we are able to connect onto the database machine.
At the same time, we're going to set some rules in place for our network security groups.
And the reason I'm doing this extensive lab exercise is just to showcase, you know, how you can actually
create a secure environment in which users should be able to connect to the web server, you know,
from the internet onto your web based machine, and then your web based machine should be able to connect
to the database based machine.
So let's go ahead with our lab.
So first and foremost let's install the MySQL Database server on our database HBase machine.
I'll use the serial console for the database machine.
Let me reconnect my session.
Once reconnected, let me do a sudo.
App update to update the package index.
Then I'll issue the command to install the MySQL server package.
Please note that we are doing this on the database HBase machine that is on db zero one.
So we are trying to make this as a database server.
Once done let me just clear the screen.
I'll issue the command just to enable the MySQL service.
And now we should be having the MySQL database server running on this machine.
For MySQL.
I'm going to edit the configuration file.
For this.
So this is the configuration file for the MySQL server.
I'm going to scroll down.
You know there is the bind address for the bind address.
I'm going to change this onto the private IP address of our database server.
Remember that is 10.0.1.4.
To make the change control O on my keyboard.
Hit on enter control X to exit.
I want to make sure that the MySQL database server listens on the private IP address of the database
server itself.
Once we've done this, I'll issue the command to restart the MySQL service.
Once done, let me now log on to the MySQL database engine.
So now we are logged in.
I'm going to create a user known as DB admin.
I'll also mention a password for the user.
I just want to make sure that this user can log in from anywhere.
Just to make it simple.
So we are done.
I'll just exit from here.
So let's mark an end to this chapter for now.
Where in we have installed the MySQL database engine on our database machine.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Two-tier architecture - Implementation ---

In the prior chapter, we had installed the MySQL database engine on the database machine.
So now we have a web server running on our web based machine and a database server running on our database
machine.
I now want to implement some rules in our nsgs.
This is just to kind of, you know, get you all to know on what are the best practices when it comes
on to defining rules in your network security group.
So first and foremost, I want to create a rule that will not allow anyone from the internet to connect
onto the database server running on a database machine.
If I go on to.
So we are going to add a deny rule a deny inbound rule in another tab.
If I go onto my database machine onto the network settings.
Now by default.
If you do look at the default NSG, definitely you will not be able to connect from the internet onto
the database service running on this machine because there is no inherent rule that will allow connections.
So why am I adding a deny connection?
Now what you have to understand is it's not always the case.
You know, by default, it's not that traffic is being denied onto the machine.
It's just that traffic is not being allowed based on the rules.
You know, during the course of time when you have applications running on machines just to allow traffic
to certain services, you might start adding rules to allow traffic.
There could be a time wherein by mistake, the port number for MySQL could be included as an allow rule
in one of these cases.
That's where the problem begins when you start, because you're going to start having a lot of rules
in place in your NSG.
Over time, if you have a large infrastructure over time by mistake, an admin could add a rule that
could inherently allow traffic onto the MySQL database server.
So by default, what admins do is they first add deny rules in place.
Where in you specifically say you don't want to allow traffic onto a set of services?
Hence, I'm going to add an inbound port rule onto the database.
You know NSG.
In the source, instead of saying any for now, let me choose a service tag.
And now what exactly are service tags?
So service tags are just these defined The IP address ranges.
So instead of you specifically mentioning certain IP address ranges, you can make use of service tags.
So there is a service tag of the internet.
So internally there will already be the IP address ranges for the internet.
There is also one for the Azure Load balancer.
So there are various Azure based services that are already being defined as service tags.
What you understand is when it comes to Azure Public services, in the end you are connecting to public
IP addresses.
So as an admin, instead of mentioning those public IP addresses, you can mention service tags.
So I'm mentioning a service tag of the internet.
I am saying that anyone from the internet, if they try to connect onto this machine.
So I'm going to put what is the private IP address of the database machine.
Here the service I'm going to choose is my sequel, which is already present.
We have a MySQL database server.
The action is deny.
Output in a priority and I'll say deny MySQL internet.
I'll click on add.
So I am specifically adding a rule to deny traffic from the internet onto the database machine onto
the database server.
Now next let's add a rule, as we've normally seen earlier on, to allow traffic from the internet to
reach the web server running on a web based machine.
Now, please note that normally applications will be running on the Https secure protocol.
If that's the case, the port number mapping is 443.
But since I have a simple web server in which we are kind of running with a default port number of port
80.
Let me go on to the network settings.
So now I'm going on to the network settings for the web based VM.
Let me add an inbound port rule again.
Here I'll use the service tag of the internet saying that if there are any requests coming in for the
private IP address of this machine, that is the web based machine for HDP, this will be allow.
It's fine.
I'll leave the priority as it is.
Allow HDP from the internet.
What I'll also do is let me just delete the ICMP rule.
We don't require that.
What's next?
What else have I mentioned here?
Let's make sure that there are no outbound connections to the internet that can be done from either
VM.
We have to add the deny rule to both of the network security groups.
Let me do this first for the web based.
So now we need to add an outbound port rule.
Now this time the source is this IP address of this machine.
On any source port range.
This time the destination is the internet.
So I'll choose the service tag of the internet on any port number, any protocol.
The action is deny and I'll say deny.
Internet.
Outbound.
We will need to add the same for the database as well.
So going back here and outbound rule, the source is the private IP address of the database machine.
Destination is the internet.
Any port range.
Again deny put in the same name.
Click on add.
So this is done now.
Next let's add a deny rule to both Nsgs.
This is for inbound for a selection of port numbers.
So from 70 to 1000.
So let me do it here for the database first.
And inbound it is from.
Let me just check and see.
So from anywhere.
This would be the database right.
Just keeping track of the database in terms of the port numbers I'm saying I'm putting a range.
This is deny.
Deny.
Port range.
Just copy this.
Click on add.
Let's do it for the web base machine as well.
You know we're just trying to get used to working with the rules in the NSG.
Putting the private IP address.
Putting the custom port range deny.
So bring this a little bit lower so that we allow traffic from the internet.
Right.
So overall at this point in time we are denying any outbound connection.
This is for the web based machine.
We are making sure that we allow traffic from the internet.
So that's going to work for the database.
Let's look at what we have.
Again, deny all outbound onto the internet.
We don't need.
So this is for database right.
Let's delete this one that allows traffic on port 22.
We are denying MySQL from the internet.
That's fine.
So we can't connect from the internet.
And we are also denying any sort of.
Actually let me change this.
I want to put in a larger port range.
So when you change the rule you can change a lot of aspects about the rule itself.
I'll click on save.
Remember this is a deny rule.
Now all I want to achieve is I want to be able to connect.
So we know that now from the internet, we should be able to make web requests onto our web based machine.
We should not be able to connect to the database server from the internet.
But I want to be able to connect from our web based machine onto our MySQL database server running on
our database machine.
So for our web server, let me go onto the console.
Once I'm login I'll just clear the screen.
I will need to install the MySQL client just to be able to connect to the MySQL database server.
So let me quickly do that.
Okay.
Now the problem is can you see that we're not able to connect onto the internet because of the outbound
rule.
So just briefly.
Let me go on to the web based machine.
So we have to ensure that we do this beforehand.
Going on to the rule.
Is there any way that we can.
So this is for the internet.
Is there any way that we can disable this?
So at the moment there is no option to disable the rule.
What I'll do is I'll just turn this on to allow for the moment so that we can install at least the MySQL
client on the machine.
So going back here, let's try this again.
And now it should be working.
And then I want to install I set the MySQL client.
Once done I'll clear the screen again.
So now I want to use the MySQL client to connect to the database server.
So I'm using the private IP address using the username.
And then I'll mention the password.
So the password I mentioned was Microsoft 2025 when I created the user.
So what would happen is it would try to connect but it's not going to work because there is no rule
that is allowing the virtual machine.
You know, there's no inbound rule to allow traffic from this web based machine onto the database machine.
It's not going to work.
I mean, while we get the error message, let me just go back to our deny internet outbound, just to
make sure that we get back to the deny and click on save.
This is not going to make a change onto our request because this is for the internet, remember?
Was it going back here?
It's just not going to work.
It's just hanging.
It's trying to connect but not able to.
So in order to make this work, let me just do a control Z on my keyboard.
To stop this activity I will go on to the database.
Network settings.
And in the network.
Security group I'm going to add an inbound port rule.
I'm going to say that if traffic is coming from my web server, you know, from its private IP address,
from any source port range onto the private IP address of the database server on my SQL, then please
go ahead and allow the request.
I'm going to make sure that this rule, the priority comes a little bit higher than the deny port range,
because this deny port range.
So if you look at the port number for MySQL, it is 3306 and 3306 comes in this range.
So I have to make sure that it comes before this deny rule.
Okay.
Everything seems to be fine.
Where in we have now the allow rule that supersedes the deny rule.
With this in place, let's try this again.
Let me try to connect.
And now we are connected onto the remote MySQL database server.
So in this chapter we want to go through this kind of extensive exercise on how we can set up a database
server and what rules can we keep in place to kind of create a secure environment in terms of network
security groups?

--- Lab - Network Security Groups - Subnets ---

Now in the prior chapter, we had seen an example on how we can set rules.
When you have a database server in place, when you have a web server, what you notice is I was doing
a lot of shifting between the energy for the web server and the energy for the database server, and
sometimes students will ask me, you know, in your nsgs when it comes on to let's say.
You know, defining rules for the IP address right here, I'm on the web.
One, if you are defining energies for the web machine and you're putting the private IP address of
the machine itself, I mean, does it make sense?
I mean, you know, the energy is anyway targeting the network interface card which has the private
IP, then why are you mentioning the private IP all across the energy rules?
I mean, that's the question that comes up quite regularly when it comes to students.
And you will see that, you know, there are sometimes some duplicate rules that we have to put into
both nsgs.
Right.
If I had to have an outbound rule to deny traffic from the to the internet, right, I had to put a
rule in both nsgs.
From a maintenance perspective, this can get pretty tedious over time when you start maintaining.
You know, I only have two machines here.
Let's say you have a string of machines.
Are you going to maintain rules for each and every machine?
It's a problem.
What you can do is you can create one single network security group, maintain the rules as part of
that group, and attach it onto the subnets.
That is what we're going to do in this particular chapter.
So first and foremost I am going to in a new tab.
Let's do this here.
I'm going to create a new.
Network security group that is going to be attached onto both subnets.
I'll create a new resource.
And as always, since we know that nsgs are separate, there should be a service known as the Network
Security Group.
And we can create a resource based on the service.
I'll place this in my resource group.
Give the name, make sure it is in the same location as our virtual network.
And then I'll click on create.
That would be step number one to create the NSG.
Step number two will be to define the rules.
So let's go ahead and define, you know the rules that we have defined basically for our web based machine.
And then define and then sorry then we'll attach that NSG to our subnets and will detach these existing
energies that are at each network interface layer.
Let's detach them.
So let's have one NSG to control our security layer when it comes onto our machines.
Okay.
So once done let me go on to it.
So let's start defining our rules now first and foremost in both of the groups right when it came onto
the database and when it came onto the web, we had a deny outbound onto the internet.
Where in the source, sorry, the destination was any the port number.
The decision was for the internet from any port number, but the source was from each individual VM.
So you know, what I can do is first let me go on to the outbound rules and add a new rule for the source.
I'll put in the IP address.
This is one way we could do it like this.
So I could do it as ten
.0.0.4.0.0.1.4, where I'm mentioning each and every private IP address.
This is one way.
Another way is I could mention the service tag of the virtual network.
So now this would impact all the IP addresses within the virtual network.
So any IP address from the virtual network should not be able to initiate an outbound connection.
So it depends upon your requirement.
Do you want to do this for the entire virtual network.
So any IP address.
So again, uh, please don't get confused.
We are not attaching this NSG to the virtual network.
No we are going to attach it onto the subnets.
But this rule just means that any IP address that belongs to the virtual network.
If that is a source, then this rule should apply to that.
So an example I'll put the destination also as a service tag of the internet on any port range.
This should be deny.
I'll put in the priority and put the name of deny internet Outbound.
I'll click on add.
So now I'm trying to consolidate the rules in one NSG.
Okay, let's go for the next one.
Allow internet.
Now this is very specific to this machine right to this VM.
So let's go on to inbound.
Let me add a rule.
The source is the internet destination is the particular IP address on the port number of HTTP allow.
Put in the name.
Click on add for the.
The next is to deny the port range.
Now do we have this.
We kind of have a similar one for both.
So let's combine it shall we.
Even though this has a larger port range, let's have the larger port range for both machines.
And let's create a new rule.
So the source is from anywhere the destination.
This time let's put in has.
The private IP addresses of the machine.
In terms of the port range.
I'll mention the port range.
And this time it's a deny.
Deny port range.
So I'm making sure this comes down so that the allow HTTP internet is because port 80 comes in this
range.
So I'm making sure that this is coming on top.
This is done right.
We are done with our web based now for our database.
So in the database this is done.
From the internet it should be fine because we have the deny port range from anywhere.
So let's leave it as it is.
Let's add this one.
Allow MySQL web server.
So let's put in the name first allow MySQL web server.
I'll put in a little bit of a higher priority.
So I'm saying that if the source is the web server, the destination is the database server.
Then on MySQL then allow the connection.
Let's click on add.
Right.
So we placed all the rules in one NSG.
Next step.
Let me go on to all resources.
I'll go on to the database NSG first, go on to the network interface and we should be able to click
on the network interface and this associate now.
And now we are able to disassociate the energy from the network interface.
Let's also do this for the web one.
Same thing.
This associate.
And now let's have one energy to rule them all.
So we have the inbound rules.
We have the outbound rules.
Let me now go on to the subnets.
Let me click on associate.
I'll choose the web subnet.
First click on okay.
So we can associate with multiple subnets at a time.
That is it for both.
Then I'll do it for the database subnet as well.
So now as per our diagram in terms of the shared NSG let me remove this link and put in the.
Link now right from.
each NSG to the subnets.
Now once done, let's do a quick confirmation.
Let's see if we can reach.
The public IP address.
For our web server.
So this is working.
Uh, next uh, let's go on to.
Uh, database machine.
Sorry.
Let's go on to our web machine only.
Let's go on to the serial console.
Let me exit and try to connect again.
And we are connected.
So everything is working as expected.
The only difference is we now have one NSG that we've linked onto both subnets.
And we have the rules in place.

--- Lab - Network Security Group - Subnet and Network Interface ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the impact of having an energy both at the subnet layer
and the network interface layer.
What we'll do is let's go ahead and reattach the NSG just for our web based machine in Azure.
Let me go on to all resources.
Let me go on to the NSG for the web based machine.
Let's go ahead and just delete all of the custom rules in this one for now.
And let's attach this back.
It's saying there was an error.
Let me go back here.
It's fine.
Going back onto the network interface, let me associate this again, which we can do.
I can associate this with the web network interface and click on okay.
So.
you can have an energy both at the subnet layer and at the network interface layer.
So now with this in place let's do one thing.
This is the public IP address again for our web based machine going on to a new window.
Let me go ahead and try to reach the web server.
And what's going to happen is it's not going to work.
We won't be able to reach the web server.
And why is this the case?
Well, if you have an energy both at the subnet and at the network interface layer, if you need a request
to be allowed that request, you need to have a rule in both the energy at the subnet layer and the
energy at the network interface layer.
What will happen is the request will first go onto the energy at the subnet layer.
If it is allowed, then the request is evaluated against the energy at the network interface layer only
if it is allowed there, then the request will go through.
If you don't have a rule that allows it at either layer, the subnet or the network interface, it will
not be allowed.
Hence, if I go back onto the inbound rules for the NSG at the network interface layer, and if I quickly
add a rule, a rule from the internet, put in the IP address of this machine HTTP.
Just give a quick name.
Click on add.
So now we have okay.
It's different rules, but in the end it's allowing traffic from the internet onto the destination on
port 80.
Let's try this again now.
And now we are able to reach the page accordingly.
So in this chapter I want to let you all know on this important point that yes, you can have an NSG
both at the subnet layer and network interface, but we have to ensure that we have rules defined in
both.
We need to allow traffic both at the subnet layer and the network interface layer.

--- Application Security Groups ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now I want to go through something known as application security groups.
Actually, this is just kind of an extension when it comes on to working with Nsgs.
Now what we've seen is in the earlier chapters, we have set some rules in a shared network security
group where in that NSG is attached onto our subnets.
If you just look at one of our rules, which is to allow traffic from the web server to the database
server there in the source and destination IP address, you know, sorry, in the source and destination
we actually put the IP address itself.
Now what happens if this IP address changes.
Because it can.
This IP address yes is come from the subnet.
But you can always go ahead and change the IP address.
As an admin you might stop the server, make sure it takes a different IP address.
So on and so forth.
So it is possible.
Also let's take the case that you have many web servers.
You need to then put all the IP addresses within that rule.
So over time what happens is when you start having many VMs and you need to add rules again from a maintenance
perspective here, we've reduced the maintenance by just having one network security group.
But then when you start having multiple servers and you're hard coding this sort of, you know, IP
address everywhere, it's going to become a problem.
What we can do is we can make use of application security groups.
Now the way that we're going to implement this is.
We are going to create something known as an application security group.
We're going to create two of them.
One will be for the web server.
And the other one is going to be for the database server.
Then we're just going to attach each individual application security group to its network interface.
So it's just I said kind of an extension where in we are just creating kind of another label or a tag.
That's what the application security group is and just attaching it to the network interface.
Then what we can do is in the NSG, instead of hard coding the IP address, we can just mention the
application security group.
So to get a better understanding, let's move on to the next chapter and implement this particular feature.

--- Lab - Applying Application Security Groups to our setup ---

So to get the application secured groups within our environment, let's go ahead and create two of them.
One is for our web server.
The other one will be for our database server.
Let me go ahead and just take in the name from my diagram.
And let's go ahead and create.
So in another tab I'll go on all resources I'll go ahead and click on create.
We can search for Application Security Group.
And let's create a new resource based on this particular type.
I'll make sure it's in my current resource group.
I'll give the name.
I'm going to make sure it's in the East US location.
The same location has my network.
It's very simple.
There's nothing much, I said.
It's just like kind of a tag you're adding to your network interfaces.
That's it.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
We need to create another one.
This will be for our database server.
So while this is being done in another tab what I'll do is in this tab let's again create a new resource.
The same concept search for an application security group.
Let's click on create.
Give the name East US review and create and create this.
Once done.
Now this is for.
Our web interface.
Right.
So the web one.
Now let me go on to virtual machines.
If you go on to the web machine or to the network settings for the network settings.
You will see here that you can configure something known as Application security Group.
So let me go ahead and click on configure.
You are adding this on to the network interface.
Again very important I'll click on add.
I'll select my web one I can see the database one also in place I'll click on add.
So all we're doing is we're kind of just tagging this network interface with that application security
group.
In the other tab I can see this is also complete.
So going back onto VMs I'll go on to my database one for the database one again the same concept.
Go on to the network settings.
In the network settings let's configure the ASG.
Add it.
Choose the database one.
Click on add done.
So what's the benefit now?
Well now I'll go on to my NSG, the network security group that has all of our rules.
So instead of now hardcoding all of the IP addresses here, let me go on to the rule for allow MySQL
web server.
The source is our web server itself.
So now in the source mentioning the IP address here you can see an option of an application security
group.
And I can go and select the web one.
Scrolling down for the destination we can do the same thing.
And here I'll choose my database one I'll click on save.
At the same concept, but instead of hard coding the IP address here itself, I'm making it much more
simple.
I'm going to say that let's do it via the application.
So this is for the web.
Click on save.
Let's go on to the Deny port range.
So instead of mentioning each IP address we can mention multiple application security groups.
So for us it doesn't make much of a difference because we only have a couple of servers in place.
But I said imagine that you have a fleet of web servers and you have to give them access.
This makes it much more simpler.
Instead of changing the IP address in the NSG, you don't need to do that.
If you have another web server joining your fleet, all you have to do is to add the application security
group against that new network interface of that new web server.
That's it.
Right?
So in this chapter, I want to go through kind of the simple implementation of application security
groups.

--- Lab - Virtual Network Peering - Setup ---

Now I want to go through the feature of virtual network peering.
Now, understand or we know that when it comes onto virtual networks, these are a private and an isolated
network address space in Azure.
Your resources within one virtual network is isolated from another network in order to showcase the
working of virtual network peering.
Or what's the purpose of virtual network peering?
What I'm going to do is I'm going to create.
A brand new virtual machine in a new virtual network in the same region for now.
So imagine that you're trying to replicate your infrastructure from a dev to a test environment.
Let's again base the machine in the target network on Ubuntu Server.
Please note that you can have a mix of both Windows and Linux based machines.
Let's not again assign a public IP address onto this network when it comes on to our dev setup.
Let's only have that one NSG in place.
Let's not work with the other Nsgs.
Even though it's there, we won't associate them onto our network interfaces.
We'll just have the one at the shared level.
And let's keep things simple for now.
Let's not have any deny rules, let's have the allow rules.
But in your actual production based environment, you have to understand that you maintain these rules
even when you start adding features like virtual network peering.
So first and foremost, let's go ahead and.
Deploy a new VM in a new virtual network.
So in another tab let's go on to virtual machines.
Let me create a new one.
Apparatus in the same resource group.
Give the virtual machine name.
For now, I'll keep it as East US.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
Ubuntu server standard password.
Can give the required details.
Now in networking.
Now when it comes only the virtual network.
Since we already have a network in East US.
That's why it's saying let's make the VM part of the same network.
But I want to create a new virtual network.
So I'll click on Create New.
I'll give the virtual network name.
The IP address range now is 10.1.
So the earlier virtual network was 10.0.
That was the network address.
Obviously we can start using now 10.1 also has a network address slash 16.
The same concept.
So this is now the network address.
And these can be used for the subnets and the host machines.
Then in terms of the subnet I'll just take the name from here.
Click on okay.
So I'm making sure that it's part of the new virtual network and the new subnet.
I don't need a public IP address in terms of the NSG.
Let's have a basic one just to make sure that okay, there's an NSG at the network interface layer for
the new machine.
Let's go on to review and create and let's create the machine.
And what I'll do is I'll mark an in onto this chapter.
Once the machine is in place, we'll understand.
I set the feature when it comes on to virtual network peering.
Alright, let's come back once the machine is in place.

--- Lab - Virtual Network Peering - Implementation ---

Right.
In the last chapter, we spun up a new VM in a new virtual network.
Now I want to explain the concept of virtual network peering.
But before that, just a couple of quick queries.
One is, um, when it comes onto our NSG, our shared network security group that's attached to the
subnets in our first virtual network.
If I go on to subnets, can I associate this NSG with the target the the test virtual network?
And it seems this is possible.
If I click on okay it should go ahead and associate itself with the subnet in the target network.
So this seems to be possible.
The next query is let me go on to the new VM.
So this is our test environment our test machine.
If I go on to the network settings, is it possible to configure the application security groups?
So let me click on add.
Not possible when it comes on to application security groups.
When you associate with a network interface in a particular virtual network, at that point in time,
you need to associate, or you can only associate that ASG with other network interfaces, only within
that virtual network itself.
Okay, that was just a couple of quick queries, but now the main thing is from our test environment,
can we reach the web server running in our dev network?
So let's try this out.
And I said before that when it comes onto our shared.
Network security group.
The shared one.
Let's remove the deny rules.
These are just some examples.
Let's remove the deny rules.
Let's just have the rule to specifically allow the traffic.
Actually, we don't even need this now because it should be allowed by VNet inbound.
But let's leave it there.
And in terms of the deny internet.
Okay, we'll leave it as it is for now.
Right.
Just to keep things simple.
So I said, now from I just go on to a new tab.
Go on to VMs.
So for the test VM let's connect via the serial console.
Can we reach the web server running in our dev environment.
So we'll use a curl command http 1.0.0.4.
1.0.0.4.
Obviously, it's not going to work here.
The main premise as to why it's not working is the virtual networks are not connected.
So they are isolated from each other.
Hence no communication by default is possible between the virtual networks.
One way of connecting the virtual networks together is by the use of virtual network peering.
Virtual network peering allows the traffic to go across the Microsoft backbone network?
And so it makes it simple for traffic to flow from one network onto another.
Now to enable virtual network peering is very easy.
I could go on to virtual networks and we can go on to either one.
Let me go on to the dev one.
Here there is an option of pairings.
All we have to do is to create a peering connection.
I'll click on add.
I'm giving a name for appearing link.
So there's going to be a link created between both of the virtual networks.
We are adding it from the dev on to the test.
And there are some other settings in place.
One is to obviously allow the traffic between the networks.
There are others for allowing forwarding traffic.
There's one for allowing the gateway or the routed server.
First, what is important is just to allow the traffic between the networks.
This particular wizard is going to create two peering connection links.
So it's from dev to test and from test to dev.
So you need both way traffic.
So I'll just give a different name here I'll put this as test.
And then here dev.
I'll click on add.
It's that simple.
So with the wizard we can just say add a virtual network peering connection.
And I said it's very important to note that once you do this, all of the traffic between the virtual
networks is going to go via the Microsoft Backbone network.
Once done here, if we try this again, now we're getting the response as expected, just because now
we have that virtual network peering connection in place.
Right.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter.

--- Azure Bastion ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through the Azure Bastion service.
This is a fully managed platform as a service that allows you to securely connect to your virtual machines
via the use of private IP addresses.
Here you can either remote desktop or windows based machines or secure Shell onto your Linux based machines.
Here, the benefit is you don't need to allocate any public IP addresses for the machines for connectivity,
and hence it reduces the surface area attack for the VMs itself.
The connectivity also via Azure Bastion can be done over TLS so securely from the Azure portal.
Now, in order to make this work within the virtual network, we will need to create a new empty subnet.
The name of the subnet needs to be Azure Bastion Subnet.
Then we deploy an instance of an azure bastion host onto this empty subnet.
The Azure Bastion host will receive its own public IP address because now connectivity will be done
via this public IP address.
So in the next chapter, before we go into an implementation, let's try to understand what's the need
of using Azure Bastion.
Now I've shown you right not assigning a public IP address to machines like for example our database
server.
And I preferred using the serial console just because it's simple.
Now with the serial console, we can only apply text based commands.
It's a very simple interface.
Normally, administrators would want to use tools or other tools to connect via secure shell or to the
machines in the virtual network.
Also, we've been dealing so much with Linux distributions.
What about windows?
With windows, we have to use the Remote Desktop Protocol and have that interface.
Hence, there is always a need for administrators to be able to log onto the machines.
I mean, why obviously you need to do some sort of admin tasks on these machines.
So let's say that you have your database server for the database server we are not exposing a public
IP address.
Hence we cannot connect right from the outside world to perform any sort of administration.
What you could do is you could connect to this machine, the web server, use it as kind of a jump server
to jump on board and connect to the database server and then perform administration.
But generally you will not do that because this web server has its own functionality.
It needs to host your web application.
So normally what you could do is here.
It's a very simple setup of only two machines if you have an entire fleet of machines.
What is the normal scenario is you, uh, host separate virtual machines whose entire purpose would
be just to kind of, first of all, log in via a public IP address and then jump into the several internal
machines for administration.
But then you still need to maintain these set of machines.
And these machines obviously need a public IP address, because you still need a public IP address to
connect well with Azure Bastion.
They provide you with a managed environment.
So here the Azure Bastion host internally again is a set of machines.
But it's managed for you.
You don't need to assign a public IP address to your internal machines.
It's only assigned onto the Azure Bastion host.
And you can do the administration from the Azure portal itself.
So let's move on to the next chapter and look at an implementation.

--- Lab - Azure Bastion ---

Still, with our current set up in place, let's implement Azure Bastion.
Now, in order to implement the Azure Bastion service, we will first need to create a new empty subnet
within our virtual network.
I'll go on to our dev network and within the dev network let me go on to the subnets.
Let's add a new subnet.
Now the name of the subnet has to be Azure Bastion subnet.
There is a subnet purpose in which I can choose Azure Bastion.
And by default it's going to give a name of Azure Bastion Subnet.
And also assign the IP address range.
And we can leave it as it is.
I'll click on add.
So very important.
The first thing is we need to have that empty subnet in place.
Then we can deploy the Azure Bastion service onto this particular subnet.
Just a quick note before we proceed ahead when it comes on to using Azure Bastion okay.
There is a price per hour.
But remember, you are not charged for that hour.
But still, I want to let you all know on the pricing.
There is an Azure Bastion developer in place that's free, but from an exam perspective, we need to
know how to use kind of the different, you know, the other SKUs because there are limitations when
it comes to Azure Bastion developer.
Hence I'm going to go with Azure Bastion Basic for now when it comes on to a bastion service.
But I said keep a note of the price.
So once done, what I can do is just in the virtual network pane itself.
I can go on to bastion.
Here we should have the ability to deploy bastion automatically or configure it in a manual way.
So let me go ahead and configure in a manual way where now we get the screen for the implementation
of the deployment of bastion.
I'll just give a name.
In East US, we can use availability zones.
If you want.
You can use them or you can just disable them.
Now, in terms of the tier, I'm choosing basic.
Very basic.
You get two instances when it comes onto the entire infrastructure.
So remember in the end what the bastion service is doing is it is creating machines on your behalf.
The connections to your internal machines in your virtual network will be routed by these machines in
Azure Bastion.
Obviously, for us, two machines are more than sufficient enough to handle communication onto our internal
machines.
If you need if you have an entire fleet of machines that you need to connect to, then you might need
to choose let's say standard.
And in standard you can increase the instance count.
So keep it as basic.
I'll select my existing The virtual network, it will understand that there is an Azure Bastion subnet
in place.
We need to create a new public IP address.
So this is required by the Azure Bastion service because we are going to establish connections to this
not us, but internally.
It has to connect via the public IP address.
I'll go on next to advance tags review and create.
And let's create an instance of the service.
This is take some time.
Let's come back once the bastion deployment is complete.
Once the deployment of Azure Bastion is complete I mean obviously we can go on to the resource itself,
but there's no point because the entire purpose of bastion is we should now be able to connect to our
machines.
Now how can we connect?
Well, we can connect via the Azure portal itself.
If I go on to my VMs, let's go on to our database VM.
Now you know for the database VM there is no public IP address.
So we can't connect from our machine to this database server.
In the connect option you will see that there is the normal connection.
There's also a connect via bastion.
I'm going to click on this option.
In the authentication type username and password.
So I'll put in Linux Admin.
And the password saying please open it in a new browser tab or click on connect.
Click on allow.
And you will see that we are connected to the machine here in the browser itself.
Note that if you get an option that pop ups are not allowed, go ahead and enable it and then click
on connect again.
So why the help of Azure Bastion from the Azure portal itself.
We now have kind of a secure session over the web onto our machine.
It's very useful if you don't have.
So if you have a fleet of machines for which you need to perform administration, you don't need to
assign public IP addresses to each and every machine.
Okay.
What about our test machine?
Now note that the test machine is in a different virtual network.
As per our diagram, the Azure Bastion is within our primary dev network.
Remember that the test VM is in its own virtual network.
But yes, there is a peering service which has a peering connection between the networks.
Can we use the bastion service to connect to this machine as well?
Because there is no public IP address.
Let's try this out.
I'll click on connect.
And it seems we are able to connect.
So the important point is if you have peered virtual networks in place, you can use the same Azure
bastion host to connect to the virtual machines in the peer network itself.
Okay, now that we're done, if you are following along, let's make sure that we delete our Azure bastion.
I mean, I'll be removing my resources later on, but since there is kind of a cost per hour when it
comes onto the bastion host, and since we no longer required for the remainder of our demos in this
particular section, I'm going to go ahead and delete the bastion host itself.
Right?
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Network Watcher ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters, I want to go through the different tools that are available in the
Azure Network Watcher service.
So the Azure Network Watcher service is an entire suite of tools that allows you to monitor and diagnose
issues when it comes onto your network.
These are monitoring tools that help you to view and monitor your resources.
You have diagnostic tools that help you to troubleshoot and diagnose networking issues.
You have tools that allow you to log and visualize your network traffic.
Some of the tools available are.
We have connection monitor.
Here you can create end to end reachability tests.
You can get alerts when connectivity or performance drifts you have connection troubleshoot.
This is a one off probe that you can define from a source to a destination, based on a port or a protocol.
We have the IP flow verify.
This allows you to check if a packet is allowed or denied to or from an Azure VM.
This is based on the rules that you set within the Network security group.
Then we have the next hop.
This gives you the next hop type the IP address, the route table ID of a specific destination IP address.
We have the effective security rules here.
You can get an overall an aggregated view of the inbound and outbound rules that apply to a network
interface.
We have packet capture.
This allows you to create packet capture sessions to track traffic to and from an Azure VM or a scale
set.
We have NSG or VNet flow logs.
This allows you to log information about traffic flowing through the virtual network or the Network
Security group.
And we have traffic analytics here.
This is a cloud based solution that provides visibility into user and application activity in your cloud
networks.
In the next set of chapters, let's see how we can work with the tools defined in Azure Network Watcher.

--- Lab - Network Watcher - Connection Troubleshoot ---

In this chapter, I want to go through the Connection Troubleshoot utility as part of Network Watcher.
If you just want to kind of troubleshoot connections between two endpoints, we can make use of this
particular tool.
I'm going to go on to the Network Watcher service.
Under the network diagnostic tools we have connection troubleshoot.
So in connection troubleshoot we can choose our source type which can be a virtual machine a scale set
an application gateway or a bastion host.
I'll choose a VM under my VMs.
Let me choose as an example the web based machine.
In the destination type, we can select a virtual machine, or we can specify manually a URI, a fully
qualified domain name, or an IP address.
If I select a virtual machine.
So as an example let me select my database machine.
We can choose IP version four.
We can decide on our protocol.
Let's say I just want to test the connectivity between the web machine and the database machine on 3306.
So my SQL on the database server listens on port 3306.
I'll just put in a random port number from our source machine.
In terms of the diagnostic test you can run the port scanner.
The next hop utility and energy diagnostic.
For now I'll just unselect these options and just test for connectivity.
That's it.
I'll go ahead and run the diagnostic tests.
What are you going to see?
There's something known as a deployment in progress.
Quite interesting.
Let's wait till this is complete to see what happens.
Ideally, we should be getting some result here in terms of the diagnostic test, but let's wait.
It'll just take a minute.
I can see I got a notification that the deployment has succeeded, but it's still running the diagnostic
test right after just a few seconds so we can see that there was a connectivity test that ran between
the web machine and the database machine.
There were a number of probes that were sent.
Mostly all of the probes have run successfully.
If you want, you can see the details.
So here the tests are saying that everything is healthy.
So with the help of this utility you can perform a quick connectivity check between two endpoints.
But what was a deployment that got carried out in another tab.
If I go on to my VMs.
Let us go to the source machine.
So that was the web server machine for the web server machine.
If I go on to extensions, what you'll notice is there was an extension that got deployed onto this
machine, the Azure Network Watcher extension.
This is the utility that got installed on the source machine.
And that on this utility would basically send those requests when it comes onto connection troubleshooting.

--- Lab - Network Watcher - Connection Monitor ---

In this chapter, I want to go through the connection monitor utility.
If you want to have a continuous connection being checked in between, let's say, two machines, we
can make use of the connection monitoring service or utility within Network Watcher.
Let me go on to Connection Monitor and click on create.
So this is not the simple connection troubleshooting here.
What we're doing is we are creating a continuous monitoring service between two endpoints.
Let me give a name.
In East US next we need to create something known as a test group.
Within this group we need to specify the source, the destination and the test configuration.
First of all, let me go ahead and give a name for the group.
I'll click on Add Source.
So for now let's take the example where in we want to test the connectivity between the VM in the test
network.
So this VM.
Test in the remote network.
Click on add.
And in terms of the destination you can see that we have a number of options in place.
I'll choose the not database but the web one.
I'll click on Add endpoints.
So I want to have a continuous modeling solution between the VM in that test remote network and between
the web server in our dev network.
We can add a test configuration.
We can base our continuous monitoring based on either HDP, TCP or ICMP.
I'll keep it as HDP and port 80.
The test frequency will be every 30s.
See what this test configuration is doing is it will continuously see if from the source machine that
is the test server, can it reach the web server, whether the dev server on port 80 using HTP and this
test will be carried out every 30s.
We can then mention what should be the success threshold and what we could expect.
Has the round trip time in terms of milliseconds?
Let me put a threshold of 10% and a round trip time of ten milliseconds.
If 10% of the probes have failed in a particular test window, then we can deem this kind of connection
as unhealthy.
If the round trip time is going beyond this particular limit of ten milliseconds.
Again, we want to deem it as unhealthy.
So this is our test configuration.
I'll add this test group go onto next.
In order to record all of the data, because we have a continuous monitoring solution in place in order
to record all of this data, this wizard is going to create something known as a log analytics workspace.
We are going to be covering the Log Analytics workspace in the monitoring section.
For now.
I'll leave it as it is If you want, you can create an alert.
So whenever the connection is unhealthy, you can get an alert.
But for now, I won't create an alert.
We'll go on to review and create and let's click on create itself.
What I'll do is I'll wait for around five minutes and then come back.
So I'll just come back after some time here.
Once the connection monitor is in place under next steps, we can either view the connection monitor
itself or view the monitor dashboard.
So let me view connection Monitor and see what we get.
Let me just hide this.
So I'm getting a summary of the round trip time.
If I go on to the test groups.
So here we can see the details about the test group.
So currently everything should be working as expected.
You can see what is the round trip time in terms of milliseconds.
So this is just to have a continuous connection in place, you know, between a source and a destination.
Now once done I want to go ahead and actually delete the test.
So I'll go on to the context menu and delete the connection model accordingly.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Network Watcher - IP Flow Verify ---

Now this chapter I briefly want to go through the IP Flow Verify tool.
So the IP Flow Verify tool checks if a packet of data is allowed or denied from a virtual machine.
This is actually based on the rules in your network security group.
So as an example, let me choose my web server as the target machine on its network interface.
I'll scroll down.
So we are testing the inbound traffic using the TCP protocol on the local IP address.
Let's say that we want to test the connectivity onto the web server that's running on this machine from
a remote IP address.
I'm going to put in what is the IP address assigned onto my laptop.
In order to find out this information I can use the following command of curl.
So there is a site that should give me what is the IP address assigned.
Let me go ahead and just copy this and I'll paste it here.
I'll put in a port number on my machine and view the IP flow.
If we scroll down you can see that access indeed will be allowed from my machine onto the web server.
Why?
Because of the security rule that's in place.
Hence, you know, this tool can just help you diagnose if there's any connectivity issue to any one
of your services hosted on your VMs.
Basically, based on the rules in your network security group.

--- Lab - Network Watcher - Next hop ---

Now, this chapter, I briefly want to go through the next hop utility.
Uh, the next hop utility will basically tell you, you know, when you are routing a packet of data
from the source onto the destination, there'll be certain routes in place.
So even in Azure, in your virtual networks, there are some default routes.
If you want to see what route is taken from a source machine onto a destination, we can make use of
the next hop utility.
So as an example, if I take the web machine running in our test based environment, remember that we
have our dev and test connected via virtual network peering.
Let me put in the source IP address as ten .1.0.4 and the destination.
Let me put in what is the private IP address of our web server running in our dev network.
So all I'm trying to do is just trying to understand if a packet of data needs to flow from the test
machine in the test network onto the web server running in our dev network, what is it going via?
Well has understood it is going via virtual network peering.
This is the next hop type.
This is useful if you want to see the routes of data packets being taken from a source onto a destination.

--- Lab - Network Watcher - NSG Diagnostic ---

Now in this chapter I want to go through the NSG Diagnostic utility.
This tool provides detailed information to understand and debug the rules that you have within your
network.
Again, this is based on the network security groups.
Just to kind of understand this has a target resource.
So we can choose, let's say the database machine that we have running in our dev environment.
I'm going to choose the protocol has TCP.
I'll scroll down in terms of the source.
It can be either an IP address or a service tag.
Let me choose a service tag and try out the service tag of the internet.
What is the destination IP address?
Because there is a private IP address and what is the destination port number?
I just want to understand which I already know that it's not possible, but can request come onto our
database machine in the form of TCP from the internet onto that machine, onto port number 3306 on which
MySQL listens to.
I already know that this is not possible because in case if you want to understand, let's say you are
not aware of the rules in the Nsgs you have multiple nsgs.
You have multiple rules.
You're trying to figure out if indeed the requests are being allowed onto the database server.
You can go ahead and run NSG diagnostics.
So if you scroll down, it's clearly saying that the traffic will be allowed if all energy is allowed,
but by default it is denied.
It is denied because of this shared network security group.
If you want, you can view the additional details when you click on View Additional Details.
Here it is telling you right.
The first rule did not match your request, nor this one.
It is the last rule that is being applied here.
So it is now telling you in detail which rules are being applied for your requests when it comes onto
your network security group.
So this is very useful right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the NSG diagnostic utility.

--- Lab - Network Watcher - NSG Flow logs ---

Right now in this chapter, I want to go through the NSG Flow Logs feature.
If you go onto logs, you have something known as flow logs.
Let me go ahead and click on create.
Now what exactly are NSG Flow logs that is going to be replaced by virtual network flow logs in the
future.
You know, if you want to get detailed information about the requests that are coming in and flowing
out of your machine.
So if you want to see what connections you know from where the connections are being made, the details
about the connection all from a security perspective.
You want all of this information to be logged.
We can make use of NSG flow logs or even virtual network flow logs.
I'm showcasing an example of creating a simple flow log.
Here the flow log type is a virtual network.
I can select my target resource as either a virtual network, a particular subnet, or a network interface.
So as an example, let me choose a subnet.
Let me choose the subnet that's hosting our web resource.
Source.
In order to collect the data.
I said, there's a lot of logging information that's going to be collected via the use of this particular
feature.
You need to have an Azure storage account in place.
A very simple one.
A general purpose V2 storage account.
So I wanted a very simple storage account.
We've already seen this in our sections in terms of storage.
I just create a simple storage account.
We can mention a retention in days when it comes onto your logs.
There's also the option of enabling topic index that provides index and visualisations derived from
the flow logs.
For this, we also need to have a log analytics workspace in place that's used for logging aspect.
We'll be covering a log analytics workspace in a separate section.
For now, I will leave it as it is in terms of the processing interval.
I'll make it a little bit less every ten minutes.
I'll go on to review and create and click on create.
Now please note that it would probably take some time in order to get the information.
I'm actually going to wait for around 10 to 15 minutes and then come back.
Now after the deployment was completed, I waited for around 10 to 15 minutes.
What I do is I'm actually going to go on to the Azure storage account that I mentioned has a target
for the log data.
I said what this flow logs is doing is it is now monitoring the connection or to the subnet, any sort
of traffic that's coming in or flowing out.
All of those details are being recorded as log information within the storage account.
If I go on to my containers and by the way, I did not create any containers beforehand, it was just
the storage account.
You will see that the service of flow logs has automatically created a container of insights logs.
If I go on to it, we have a very, uh, structured virtual folder format.
We have to keep on scrolling down because it's storing the data based on the year, based on the month,
based on the day, based on the hour.
You know, every hour it's going to actually record information.
And also based on the Mac address.
Remember that in our subnet we currently have only one machine, but we can have multiple machines.
It's going to generate these JSON based files that will have the information.
Let me see if I can view the information here itself.
So yes I can.
So these are all of the records that are being logged by the use of energy flow logs.
So if you want to look at a particular example on one of these logs information this is it.
So this is one request which would have come in or flown out.
How do we decipher what this information has.
Well you have to go on to the Microsoft documentation to understand the flow logs.
So I think we need to go on to the VNet flow logs.
And here it should tell you okay what is the log format.
So first would be the time the event was logged.
We have the flow log version.
We have the Mac address of the network interface where the event was captured.
And we have a whole lot of information so you can get what is the source IP address the destination
IP address, the source port number, the destination port number, the protocol, etc. so what we can
do is we can see what is the source IP address.
So basically when I made a request for my machine onto the web server.
So this is the private IP address of the web server.
This is my IP address.
So this interaction was logged by the use of this VNet flow logs.
This is all of the information.
Hence if you want to have a detailed, you know, a set of logs in place for all the conversations that
are happening with your virtual machines, you can make use of VNet logs.
Okay, now we are done with this entire set of labs wherein we were reusing this infrastructure.
Now that I'm done, I'm going to go ahead and delete all of my resources and come back with a fresh
slate, because we can now move on to the next set of chapters.

--- User Defined Routes ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now I want to go through the concept of having a user defined route in place.
Normally from a networking aspect, you have routes in place that enables the routing of data from a
source onto the destination.
Because he obviously devices like switches and routers, they need to understand, okay, how do we
route data from the source onto the destination?
What are the rules for your virtual network?
There are some default routes in place.
You know, that's why within a virtual network itself, if you try to send a packet of data.
So in our previous demos, when we were looking at reaching our database server from the web server,
it was quite simple.
If we use a curl command from the database server to reach the web server, it would work as expected,
as long as you have the required rule in place.
In the network security group, the energy is only used to filter the traffic, but there still should
be some rule in place to tell, you know, the underlying in the background.
There will be some virtual network device that is going to take the request from the database server
onto the web server, or from the web server onto the database server that behind the scenes network
routers, which needs to understand how to route the data.
So there are some system routes in place.
Quite simple.
If you have a source and if you have a destination, how do you route the data?
So within the virtual network, routing is already enabled, wherein any machine can route traffic to
any other machine in the network itself so that basic communication is always there.
But there are cases wherein a company might want to have a centralized VM in place, which would take
in all of the request and then forward it onto the destination accordingly.
You know, we had seen this sort of example even earlier early on in one of our earlier chapters when
we were looking at adding secondary network interfaces.
So let's say that on this machine, the company has installed some sort of firewall or network appliance
that needs to inspect all data within the virtual network.
So if you have a source machine and the source machine needs to send data onto a target, it's quite
simple.
It's kind of a direct connection because of the route.
But you might want to define a, you know, your own user defined route, which says that before the
traffic from this source can reach the target, the request needs to flow via this central subnet.
It would be processed by some machine in the subnet and then it will be directed onto the target.
I said here you could be having some packet inspection software that would inspect the request, inspect
the packet of data from a security perspective, and then it can forward the data accordingly.
So for this, you want to define a user defined route wherein you are telling how the routing of packets
should work.
So we're going to go through an exercise wherein we are going to build this virtual network, which
is going to have three subnets.
We're going to define simple machines.
In these subnets we won't have any kind of public IP addresses.
We'll install nginx as a web server on the target machine.
We'll have this one NSG in place.
What I'll do is I'll go ahead and create this infrastructure, you know, keep it ready and then we'll
come back.
Since we are already well aware of how to build machines.
Do it yourself if you want to follow along.
But as it is very simple, just going to build a virtual network with three subnets and these three
machines.
So I'll go ahead and create this infrastructure and then come back.

--- Lab - User Defined Routes ---

So I've come back.
I have created my resources.
So I have three machines.
I have VM central zero one.
This is in the S-net central subnet within a virtual network.
IBM source zero one.
This is within S-net source and VM target zero one.
This is within S-net target.
I wonder network security group that has just the default rules in place.
I have linked this NSG onto all of the subnets.
I've logged on to the source machine and on the target machine I have installed nginx.
The target machine.
Has a private IP, so we'll be going via the private IP of the machine.
It should be 10.0.2.4.
So from the source machine let's issue the curl command.
ten .0.2.4 and we're getting the response as expected.
This is because of the default system routes that are in place.
If you want to see the system routes, go on to any network interface.
On the help you can see the effective routes.
Let me go ahead and just hide this.
These will be the affected routes based on the default system route table.
Now as you can see that for any packets which are destined for the address prefix of 10.0.0.0 slash
16, it will go via the next hop type of the virtual network itself.
For any other traffic that's going towards this IP address, it'll go towards the internet.
So these are the default system routes.
I want to now create.
You know, a custom, a user defined route in such a way that instead of the request going directly
from the source onto the target, which is a direct route, I want the request to go via the VM central
zero one machine, and then VM central zero one should be able to forward the request onto the target
machine.
In order to go ahead and do this.
We are going to define something known as a route table.
Let me go on to all resources here and click on create.
I'm going to search for something known as a route table resource.
This will allow us to define a user defined route.
Let me create a resource based on this particular type.
Select my existing resource group in East US.
I'll give a name.
I don't want to propagate something known as gateway routes at this point in time.
I'll just do a review and create.
Now, once we define the route table, the next step will be to define a route in the table itself.
That route will tell that any traffic that's destined for the virtual network now needs to go via the
central zero one machine.
And then we will need to associate that route table with the subnets of source and target.
So I said I'm just trying to make my own user defined route to tell that all traffic for the virtual
network needs to flow via the VM central zero one machine.
Just imagine that a company has hosted some sort of network appliance on this machine that needs to
inspect all traffic from a security perspective.
Now, once done, I'll go on to the route table.
It's actually taking me onto the network security group, but I'll go onto the route table Within the
route table.
I'll now, first of all define a route.
I'll click on add.
I'll just give a simple name for now.
We can select the destination type.
It could be just an IP address or a service tag.
I'll choose a service tag and select the okay.
There's no virtual network as such, so let me go ahead and just choose an IP address and put the IP
address range of the virtual network.
Now in the next hop type, if requests are going towards the virtual network, where do you want to
direct the packets of information to.
So it could be something known as a virtual network gateway, the virtual network itself, the internet
or a virtual appliance.
I want to click on the virtual appliance here.
I need to give what is the IP address of VM central zero one.
Now the IP address of VM central zero one is.
It's a private IP address is ten 0.0.4.
I'll click on add.
So the first step is to add this user defined route in this route table.
The next step is to associate this route table now with our subnets.
So I will associate this with our source subnet and then with the target subnet.
Now once this is in place here if I try to send the request again it's not going to work.
See the problem is the request now is being forwarded on to VM central zero one.
But by default VM central zero one is not configured to forward the request on to subsequent machines.
So by default the default system routes handles all of the All the routing, but now we're giving the
responsibility of taking the request, the packets of data and forwarding it onto the destination.
We're giving that responsibility to the VM central zero one machine, but it cannot do that by default.
In order to make this work, I will need to go on to.
VM central zero one first onto the network interface.
So I'll go onto the network interface of vm VM central zero one.
In the IP configurations there is a setting known as enable IP forwarding.
So this allows the virtual machine on this network to act as a router receive traffic that is addressed
to other destinations.
Make sense right.
I will enable this and click on apply.
Now the next step is we need to also apply a setting at the OS level.
So even at the OS level you need to configure the forwarding of requests.
So for this I'll go on to VM central zero one.
I'll scroll down.
Let's go on to the console.
Once we are logged in, I'm going to execute a command that will add the network layer of this OS will
enable IP forwarding.
Now please note that this command will only enable it till it reboots.
When you reboot again, it will not.
You know it will not be IP enabled.
For that, you will need to make a change onto the system configuration file.
But since this is just a simple demo wherein I just want to showcase that we have to carry out these
two actions to enable forwarding on the central zero one machine.
So now that this is done, if I try this again, we're getting the response back.
So in this exercise I just want to showcase how we can define something known as a user defined route.
Okay.
Now that we're done with this lab I'm going to go ahead and delete all of my resources.

--- The Azure Load Balancer Service ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the next set of chapters, we are going to be looking at the Azure Load Balancer service.
A load balancer is used to distribute incoming traffic across a set of back end servers.
Now, we've already understood the concept that if you have a critical application, if a company has
a revenue generating application, normally what they would do is they would host the application on
a number of VMs within a network.
They could distribute these VMs across an availability set or across availability zones.
The reason they do this is in case if one VM goes down that's holding the application, the request
from the users can actually be directed onto the other running VMs.
So there's no impact as such onto the infrastructure.
So this is the basic concept when you have an application running on multiple machines.
But then in order for the traffic to be distributed across these machines, you know, across the application
running on these machines, you need some sort of load balancing service in front.
One option is to provision machines in a new subnet.
Take a load balancing software from another vendor.
Install that load balancing software on these virtual machines and then configure them accordingly.
Then requests from the internet from the users will go via the load balancer onto the machines.
But if you don't want the burden of managing the underlying infrastructure for the load balancer itself,
what you can do is you can make use of the Azure Load Balancing service.
So in a nutshell, simply it is a managed solution where the load balancer is maintained for you.
You can use the load balancer to distribute traffic to your backend virtual machines.
And this leaves you just time to focus on your infrastructure.
This was a very quick introduction onto the purpose of a load balancer.
In the subsequent sections we are going to look at the implementation of the load balancer itself.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Standard SKU - Setup ---

Now in order to see the load balancer service.
What I'm going to do for this particular demo is I'm going to build two VMs again based on Ubuntu Server.
On both VMs, I will install the nginx web server.
I won't assign a public IP address to any machine.
I will install nginx via the serial console.
For these Linux based machines, I will have one network security group that's assigned to the subnet
that has the default rules in place.
I'm going to go ahead and build this infrastructure and then come back quickly through.
Done is I have built both machines.
If I go onto all resources, if I hit on refresh, I have both of my machines in place.
They have their network interface and their disk.
I have the shared network security group and it's part of the virtual network.
I have already installed the nginx web server on both machines.
I just want to now have kind of a default or an index dot HTML page.
So here we're trying to simulate the condition that you're going to have multiple back end virtual machines.
That is going to host an application here just to simulate that kind of scenario or that environment.
I'm having a web server installed on both machines.
So when we do place a load balancing solution in front of these machines, when we fire, a request
or request could go on to either machine.
But both machines should be hosting a web server.
Now, on this web zero one machine, I'm going to go onto the slash var ww slash HTML folder.
This is the folder for nginx that serves web content.
Let me build an index dot HTML page.
I'm going to copy in some code here.
Simple HTML code.
Just saying.
This is Bm1 control O on my keyboard here and enter and control X if I do a curl command and just go
on to localhost, I'm getting the page back so it's working.
Let me do the same thing on the second machine.
Right.
So here I have installed nginx on the second machine, the same thing.
Go on to that folder and build an index dot HTML page.
I'll copy the code, paste it ctrl o enter control X.
So now in this chapter what we've done is quickly I have just built my entire setup wherein I have two
machines running.
Both of them have the web server, and we have kind of an index dot HTML page on both of these machines.
In the next chapter, let's go ahead and deploy and configure an Azure Load balancer.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Standard SKU - Implementation ---

In the prior chapter, I have my setup of machines in place.
Now it's time to deploy the Azure Load Balancer.
So when requests are coming in onto the backend machines, the request will now come in via the load
balancer.
The load balancer should then redirect the request onto either VM.
So first and foremost I am going to deploy a load balancer resource onto my account.
Please note that after we deploy the load balancer we need to configure it accordingly.
Going on to my account in another tab, let me create a new resource and let's search for the load balancer.
I'll create a resource based on the service.
Select my resource group.
Give a name.
In East US there are two types of SKUs.
Currently, we have the standard that is used to distribute traffic to.
Back end resources.
That's what we want.
We have gateway that can be used to direct traffic onto network virtual appliances.
There are two types of load balancing solutions.
We have one that's known as public and the other one is internal.
So you can have a private load balancer that directs requests across private workloads.
But here I want a public facing load balancer.
I want requests to come in from the internet onto the load balancer, and then distribute requests across
the virtual machines.
I'll leave the tier has regional.
I'll go onto next.
Now here we add something known as a front end IP configuration.
This front end IP configuration is going to have a public IP address.
Since we have a public facing load balancer.
The load balancer needs its own public IP address.
just now.
Note that for my back end machines, we don't have a public IP address.
Not required.
We only need the private IP addresses.
That's enough for the load balancer.
It's only thing is that the load balancer itself needs a public IP address, because the requests need
to come in from the internet onto the load balancer.
And then the load balancer can redirect the requests across the virtual machines.
So I've got endless enter a name for creating a new public IP address.
This this needs to be of the standard skew and regional.
I'll click on save.
Please make sure it is IP version four and it is an IP address.
Next I'll just quickly what is the front end IP configuration is giving it a name.
Place it here and click on save.
So we've added the front end IP configuration.
We can add the back end pool of machines now itself.
But we'll do this later on.
I won't configure anything else.
Let's just go ahead and create the load balancer.
Now while this is being deployed let me let you all know on what all do we need to configure later on
to make the load balancer work.
So what have we done so far is we are creating something that's going to sit in front of our machines.
Because when we have users from the internet, they need to hit the web server running on both of our
machines.
Note that our machines don't have a public IP address, and we could have many requests coming in from
many users.
We want the request to be distributed across the VMs.
This can be done by the load balancer.
What you've done so far is we have configured a public IP address so requests can come in onto the public
IP address.
Next we are going to define the backend pool.
The pool will actually contain the machines.
We are configuring the pool to tell that okay these are the machines.
These are our backend machines that contain our web servers our application.
After that we have to configure something known as a health probe.
The load balancer will use the health probe settings to understand if the backend machines are healthy
or not.
Because let's say that one machine goes down, that means the load balancer should know that if a request
comes in from a user to not direct request onto the machine, that's down only to the machines that
are up and running.
So we can configure a very simple health check for the load balancer.
Then we define a load balancing rule that will make sure that the load balancer.
When a request comes in onto the public IP address on a particular port number of the load balancer,
then direct requests onto the backend pool.
So we have to also configure a load balancing rule as well.
Okay.
The deployment of the load balancer is complete.
So if I go onto settings and the front end IP configuration.
So please note that this is the IP address that has been assigned onto the load balancer.
This is an IP version four.
Please make sure sometimes in configuring the load balancer you can sometimes make a mistake.
It might go onto IP version six.
Now I'll go on to the backend pools.
I'll just take this setting.
Let me add a new pool.
I'll give it a name.
I'll choose my virtual network.
I'll leave it as the network interface and click on add.
I'm going to add both machines onto the back end pool and then I'll click on save.
By default, by just adding the back end pool, it's not going to take in the request and direct the
request onto the pool itself.
We have to add a load balancing rule.
The reason that we need rules is you can have different backend pools as part of the load balancer.
And you can have actually multiple front end IP addresses.
So just to make sure that the load balancer understands okay.
When the request comes in where to direct the request to we need to add a load balancing rule.
Right.
So this is done.
Now let's define a health probe for the health probe.
Let me take the name from here.
Let me add a new health probe.
I'll just give the name.
This is a very simple probe.
This probe will just send a request, a TCP kind of ping request on port 80.
Every five seconds to the back end machines.
If it gets a response back, that means it deems the instance as healthy.
I'll go and click on save.
So we have our simple health probe in place.
Now we need to add the load balancing rules.
I'll just take the name from here.
Give the name.
Make sure it is IP version four.
Let's scroll down.
So we are telling this rule that whenever a request comes in onto the front end IP address of the load
balancer, then direct it onto the backend pool of machines.
What is the front end port number.
So if requests are coming in on port number 80 of the load balancer, then direct them onto the backend
virtual machines again on port 80.
Because remember nginx is listening on port 80 for requests.
We can choose our existing health group, make sure everything is correctly configured and then click
on save.
And now once we have this rule in place, we should be able to now go and send a request onto the load
balancer.
I'll go on to the front end IP configuration.
I will take the IP address.
In a new tab let me send a request through.
Now it might not work.
You know you are going to get an error wherein it's not able to reach the site.
Now why is this the case?
I mean, it's not going to work.
We have defined the load balancer.
We have defined the backend pool.
We have defined everything correctly.
But still why is it not able to reach.
Our web applications or web servers.
That is because of the network security group.
Going back here.
So let me go on to actually all resources.
I have an NSG that has the default rules in place.
And this is attached to just that single subnet that has my machines.
I need to go on to the inbound security rules.
Click on add.
Let me put in the source has the internet and the destination just to make it very simple.
I'll put in a service tag of the virtual network.
That means any machine in the virtual network.
Let's allow ship traffic.
Put in a priority and say allow HTTP and click on add.
See, the load balancer is just taking the client request and forwarding it on to the back end machine.
So there is a connection that's going to be established between the client machine and the end back
end machine, the load balancers requirement.
The purpose of the load balancer is just to direct the request.
That's it.
So we still need to have this rule in place in NSG.
And now you can see we're getting a response back.
So we are getting a response from VM two.
If another user hits the load balancer they might get a response from VM one.
Here the load balancer is directing requests across your virtual machines right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the entire implementation of the Azure Load Balancer.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Standard SKU - Inbound NAT Rules ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through something known as inbound Nat rules when it comes onto
your load balancer.
So we need to go through some certain features when it comes onto the load balancing service.
Currently what we have is we have a public facing load balancer.
It's a regional load balancer.
It is taking requests from the internet and distributing the requests across machines in a backend pool.
Now let's say as an admin you want to perform some administration.
You might want to secure shell onto the machine.
If it's a windows based machine you want to remote desktop.
Now one option is you deploy Azure Bastion in your virtual network and then use that.
That's one option that's good if you have many machines in place.
You remember we don't have a public IP address for the machines as such.
So we can't log in directly.
We can't do a secure shell, we can't do a single console.
But I told you from the console it's limited in terms of just text.
Normally admins want to use tools to kind of log in to the machine to perform admin tasks.
Using the load balancer, you can define something known as inbound Nat rules.
This performs network address translation and port mapping.
So an admin can do is they can send a request to secure shell via a port number and a public IP address
of the load balancer.
And then the load balancer would translate that to logging onto the machines.
For this we need to define something known as inbound Nat rules.
So we are going to define two inbound Nat rules for each virtual machine.
For this I need to go on to the load balancer again.
For the load balancer we have something known as inbound Nat rules.
Let me go ahead and add a new rule.
Let me give a name for the rule.
So this will be for our first web server.
We want to apply this rule to an individual Azure VM.
So at the moment let me target web zero one on its IP configuration.
We are going to connect now as an admin via the front end IP address of the load balancer.
And we want to connect using Secure Shell to the back end port.
So the back end port is going to be port 22.
But in the front end port I'm going to put in an arbitrary port number which we can use.
So when we now connect or when we now want to connect onto the web zero one machine, we are going to
connect via the front end IP address on this port number.
So this is doing a mapping.
This is going to do a port mapping.
You know, when we connect now by the front end IP address of the load balancer on this port number,
it will do a mapping to web zero one on port 22.
Let's go ahead and click on add.
What I'll do is let me just copy this for the second rule.
So I'll click on save.
I'll add another rule.
This will be for the second machine.
Again we want to target this against this time the second machine using its configuration.
Again using the same frontend IP address choose again Secure Shell.
The backend port number is 22, but I keep on changing the frontend port number.
This is of the load balancer.
So for the earlier one I put 50,000.
This is 50,001.
Let's go ahead and create or sorry save this inbound Nat rule.
Now once you have the rules in place.
Uh, this is remember the public IP address of the load balancer in command prompt.
Let's secure shell with Linux admin.
Add the rate now the public IP address of the load balancer.
And we can mention the port number of 50,000.
If we are getting a timeout we probably need to add a rule to allow secure shell.
This could be the problem.
Hence in another tab, let me quickly go on to the network Security group.
And in the inbound rules I'm going to add a new rule.
And by the way I'm going fast because now we know how to work with Nsgs.
So the source I'll put in has the internet the destination.
For now I'll put in has the virtual network to make it simple.
The service is secure shell, so we want to now add a rule to allow SSH.
Is not able to connect.
Let's try again.
After adding the rule can we connect.
And now we should be able to connect.
So if I enter the password we can now see that we are logged in onto VM dev East US web zero one.
Perfect.
Let's try out the next one.
So Secure Shell Linux admin add the rate the public IP address.
And this time the port number was 50,001.
And we are logged in onto VM dev East US web zero two.
Right.
So in this chapter we want to go through this inbound Nat rules that allow you now to create an inbound
connection via the public IP address of the load balancer onto the back end virtual machines.

--- Lab - Standard Load Balancer - Outbound Connectivity ---

This chapter, I briefly want to go through the outbound rules that you can define for your Azure Load
balancer.
So this allows you, uh, you know, to send outbound requests from the underlying VMs via the load
balancer.
And again here the load balancer of the rules will, you know, will provide network address translation,
this time for outbound traffic.
We had seen inbound Nat rules for inbound traffic.
But what about traffic initiated from the virtual machines itself?
So as an example here on web VM two I'm logged in.
If I do a sudo apt update wherein we know that it needs to connect onto the internet, it's not going
to work by default.
So outbound traffic is not possible.
In order to make this possible, we need to add an outbound rule when it comes onto the load balancer.
So let's go on to the load balancer and add an outbound rule.
Let me go ahead and click on add.
Let me give a name.
It's actually quite simple to go ahead and create this rule.
We're going to say again, to use the front end IP address, we can choose all of the port numbers.
I'll scroll down.
And for the back end pool of machines.
We can put the allocated outbound ports.
For instance it has to be a number divisible by eight.
I'll click on save.
So it is adding a very simple outbound rule onto the load balancer.
Once done.
If I try this again.
Now it's working as expected.
It's actually gone onto the internet and retrieved the package index.
So in this chapter briefly we want to go through outbound rules.
Okay.
Now that we're done with the Azure load balancer I'm going to go ahead and delete my infrastructure.

--- Lab - Standard Load Balancer - VM Scale Set - Setup ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the prior chapter, we have seen how we could deploy and work with the Azure Load Balancer.
There we were working with individual VMs.
Now I want to showcase a quick demo in which we can place virtual machine scale sets behind an Azure
load balancer.
Remember in the chapter of compute we had looked at virtual machine scale sets.
Well, even in this case we can place the machines of a scale set behind a load balancer.
Now what I'm going to do is I am going to create a new scale set.
And for the scale set which we've already seen earlier on, this will be based on Ubuntu Server.
I'm going to make sure that we install nginx and have kind of a index dot HTML page in place.
We've already seen this.
I have the script file in an Azure storage account.
What we'll do is in this particular chapter, let's go ahead and provision.
A virtual machine scale set.
We've already seen this in an earlier section.
Let's create a resource based on the service.
I'll give a name in East US.
Make sure it's the uniform orchestration mode.
Let me leave the instance count as two.
So we'll have an initial instance count based on Ubuntu Server.
Let me place a password.
This would create its own virtual network for the network interface.
The change that I'm going to make is I'll just make sure that we allow traffic on port 80, because
we are going to be installing nginx on the back end machines.
Please know that here itself we can enable the Azure load balancer, but we'll do this later on.
Go on to management on to review and create.
Let's go ahead and create this virtual machine scale set.
Let's come back once we have the scale set in place.
Now once done let me go on to the scale set.
If we look at the instances we can see two machines in the running state.
Let's go on to extensions and add a custom script extension.
We have already seen this earlier on.
So custom script for Linux.
I'll click on next.
Let me browse for the script in my existing storage account in my container.
Click on select.
Make sure that it's placed here.
Click on create.
It will just kind of apply the extension.
But we know that after this we have to go onto the instances and upgrade all the machines with this
new change.
Right.
Once done.
Let's go back onto the scale set.
Go onto the instances.
I'll select both of my machines and click on the upgrade option.
I hope you've already seen this earlier on, but I just want to have the scale set in place.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter.
Let's move on to the next.
Where in will provision a new Azure Load Balancer.
And make sure to place it in front of the virtual Machine scale set.

--- Lab - Standard Load Balancer - VM Scale Set - Implementation ---

Where I've come back.
The upgrade is complete on both machines.
Remember, in this section of compute we had enable the public IP address for each and every instance.
But I told you that would normally not be the case.
Normally you would have some sort of load balancing solution sitting in front of the scale set.
And that load balancer would have a public IP address.
So in our case now we have machines running as part of the scale set on these machines.
We have nginx running.
And obviously we also have kind of a default index dot HTML page in place in another tab.
Now.
Let's go ahead and provision an Azure load balancer.
In the marketplace let's create a resource based on the service.
So this will be in our existing resource group.
I'll give a name.
East US standard, a public facing load balancer of the type regional for the front end IP configuration.
Or give a config name.
Create a new public IP address of the type standard.
Go on to next for the backend pools.
Now here itself we can add a backend pool.
So in the earlier chapter we had done the configuration later on.
But during the creation of the load balancer itself we can configure this option.
I'll select my virtual network click on add.
I can see my virtual machine scale set.
So I'll add the scale set and click on save.
I'll directly now go on to Review and Create.
And let's create the load balancer.
After defining the load balancer, obviously we still need to configure two aspects.
One is the health probe and the other is the load balancing rule.
So let's come back once the load balancer is in place.
Once the deployment is complete let's go on to the load balancer.
So first and foremost I'll go onto the health groups and let me add a new health probe.
Now please note that we're going to keep this simple based on TCP port 80.
Remember that for the machines in the skill set they have nginx that listens on port 80.
I'll click on save to save this health probe.
And then finally we'll create our load balancing rule.
Let's go ahead and add a rule.
I'll say for the front end IP address of the load balancer.
Let me select my back end pool.
That should be having my virtual machine scale sets port number 80 of the load balancer.
Let's direct it onto port number 80 of the back end pool using my existing health probe.
And then I'll click on save.
Right.
Once done.
Now before we can go ahead and test our front end IP address of the load balancer, there's one more
thing that we need to carry out.
One more activity.
If we go on to the load balancer and go onto the backend pools, we can see that yes, the virtual machine
scale set was indeed added to the backend pool of the load balancer, but it's still telling us that
because we've made this sort of this change, or we want to make this change onto the virtual machine
scale sets any change, the virtual machine scale set, it's saying that we need to upgrade the instances
to take to make this take effect.
Hence, in another tab, let me go on to my VM scale set.
Again, click both of my machines and click on the upgrade option.
Please note that again, there is an automatic upgrade available as part of the Virtual Machine scale
set.
At this point in time, I'm taking a manual approach.
Okay, once this is done, let me click on refresh.
It might just take some time, but now we can see both machines as part of the back end pool.
Now let me take the front end IP configuration.
Take the IP address.
If I go on to a new browser tab, I'm now directed onto one of the machines in the scale set.
So in these a couple of chapters I just want to showcase how we can, you know, combine the service
of the load balancer and the scale set.
Now that we are done, I'm going to go ahead and delete my resources.

--- DNS Fundamentals for Azure Administrators ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the next set of chapters we are going to go through, how do we implement DNS via the use of
Azure based services.
But before that, just for the benefit of students who might not be familiar with DNS and bi DNS, I
mean the Domain name system, I'm going to go through some fundamentals when it comes onto DNS itself.
Now on your laptop, when you're browsing for a site, let's say at home, your request is going via
the Wi-Fi router.
Going onto the internet, let's say within the browser, you are trying to go on to the Microsoft site.
So https ww dot Microsoft.com.
Your laptop first needs to establish a connection with the underlying Microsoft servers, fetch the
content for the home page, and then the content is sent onto your laptop and then your browser renders
the content.
So a connection needs to be made between your laptop and the Microsoft servers.
Now with your laptop.
Make a connection using the name.
No, the connection is made via the use of IP addresses.
I told you, IP addresses are used to identify devices on a network.
Hence, your laptop needs to understand what is the target IP address for the Microsoft servers.
Then a connection is established and then the content of the Microsoft.com home page is sent back onto
the laptop.
How does your laptop get to know what is the IP address of the Microsoft servers?
You know, ideally in the browser, if you had to type the IP address of the servers itself, then you
could establish a connection.
But then we as humans we are more familiar with remembering names rather than IP addresses.
And hence we have this concept of a domain name system, wherein we have user friendly names or domain
names that are mapped onto IP addresses.
So how does I said all laptop when it connects or when it tries to fetch a page from a website on the
internet?
How would it get that IP address?
Well, this is why the DNS system.
It's like a phone book that helps you turn your domain names into IP addresses.
A very simple concept.
It is a mapping of at a simple term, the domain name onto your IP address.
The DNS system just hosts a set of records.
The record has that mapping.
Your laptop needs to fetch the IP address that is mapped onto the domain name from the Domain Name System.
Now, just to give a simple understanding of the steps involved when you're browsing a site, I said
first you type in the URL onto your browser.
Your browser will then formulate a query to actually resolve the domain name of, let's say, microsoft.com
from the internet.
The query would first go to your internet services provider to see if it can be resolved there.
So there are various, um, companies around the world that hold something known as name servers.
If the internet services provider cannot resolve the name, it will then forward the request onto other
domain servers across the internet.
Finally, the request would reach something known as an authoritative name server.
A name server is just a DNS server that answers DNS queries for a domain.
The IP address for the domain is then sent back onto your browser, onto your laptop, and then your
laptop makes a simple connection across the internet to the Microsoft servers via IP addresses, and
then the data is sent from the page, you know, from the external domain site onto your laptop.
This is a very, just a very, very simple explanation of the purpose of a domain name system.
In the end, it's a simple system that has a mapping of domain names into IP addresses.
Let's go on to the further chapters where in we're going to look at the workings of using DNS services
on Azure.

--- An example of setting the DNS name for an Azure virtual machine ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how you can map a domain that you own onto, let's say,
a web application that's running on an Azure VM.
So what I've gone ahead and done is I've just built a simple Azure VM based on Ubuntu Server.
I have nginx running on the server itself.
So I've just installed it here.
And we'll go ahead and clear the screen.
Now please note that this machine does have a public IP address assigned onto it.
First of all, before I actually showcase the mapping of an external domain, just some important concepts.
First is I could also go on to an internal domain name that's also available for the virtual machine.
So if I go on to VM so I want to give the name of the machine.
This is the name of the machine.
Slash dot.
Internal dot cloud app dot net.
If I hit enter, I'm getting the home page for the nginx web server.
Hence we can, you know, from an internal perspective, we have an internal domain name.
Next, if I go onto the VM we do know that.
If we take the public IP address of the machine, we should be able to reach the nginx home server.
But I said this before.
As human beings we are not familiar with entering IP addresses.
Because in the end, our laptop is establishing a connection to the IP address of the Azure VM.
But we need simple domain names.
There is one feature wherein you can configure a DNS name for the public IP address that is assigned
onto the machine.
So for example, if I give.
A name of web app, it's not available.
Please note that your domain name, the one that you're assigning here, it will be appended with dot
East US dot cloud app.azure.com.
So let me just try to add a number.
I'll click on save.
This is an optional configuration setting where in you can now assign a domain name for the public IP
address that is assigned onto the machine.
So now we have that domain name in place.
If I go on to the overview for the public IP address, I can copy the entire domain name.
Going on to a new tab this time.
Let me go on to the domain name itself and I should be directed onto my nginx web server.
But now let's say as a company, you own your own domain name, your own company domain name, and you
want to map that domain name onto this kind of public IP address that's assign onto the virtual machine.
So remember Domain Name System is just a mapping of the name onto the IP address.
In order to go ahead and show this okay here I am on an external domain provider that's known as GoDaddy.
There are many external providers that allow you to buy domain names.
So if you need to have a public a public domain name, you need to buy it.
I normally buy domain names just for the interest of learning.
I mean, sometimes these domain names are as less as just 1 to 2 USD per month.
So I suggest from a learning perspective I go ahead and buy these domains.
So in order mostly, if you want to have an external domain name in place, a publicly routable domain
name, you need to buy one or subscribe to a yearly plan.
So I have one domain name in place.
And then normally for an external domain provider, they allow you to add the DNS records.
There are various types of DNS records in place that you can add to a domain name system to the domain
server.
We have the A type record.
This is the simplest one.
This maps a domain name onto an IP version four address.
We have something known as a CNAME record.
This maps one domain name onto another.
We have something known as an NS record or a Nameserver record.
This delegates the responsibility of the DNS zone to the specific name servers.
We have a start of authority record.
This contains metadata about the zone and something known as a mail exchanger record.
These are just examples of some of the different record types that you can add to your domain.
So now going back here, what I can do is for my domain provider, I can add a new record wherein I'm
adding an A record, which is a simple mapping of my domain name onto the public IP address of the VM.
If I go on to another tab, just if you're getting confused, if I go on to virtual machines, if I
go onto the VM itself, I'll copy the public IP address.
And what I'm doing is I'm telling my external domain provider that whenever a request on the internet
comes for cloud hub learning.com, make sure that you route the request onto this public IP address.
This public IP address is assigned onto my Azure VM that's hosting the NGINX web server.
I'll click on save.
I'll just need to verify myself.
Now No.
Once this is done, I said, I can take Cloud Hub Learning.com going on to a new browser tab.
If I type in Cloud Hub Learning.com, I should be directed onto the nginx web server running on my Azure
VM.
So you remember that the request for my laptop for my browser is first trying to find out what is the
IP address that should be mapped, or we should contact when it comes onto Cloud Hub, Learning.com
is going to go across the internet.
It's going to fire something known as a query.
That query is to basically get the IP address for this particular domain name.
Somehow it will reach the GoDaddy name servers.
The GoDaddy name servers has the mapping of this domain name onto the public IP address.
And then my laptop.
Once it gets the public IP address of the Azure VM, it will establish a connection accordingly.
In this chapter, I want to kind of go through an example on how we can kind of map a public IP address
onto an external domain name.

--- Azure Public DNS ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through a service known as the Azure Public DNS.
In the prior chapter, I had given an example on how you probably have a domain, your own domain name.
It would be available via an external domain provider, and how you could create a record that could
map the domain name onto a public IP address.
So we added an A record.
In Azure there is a service known as Azure Public DNS.
This is a hosting service for DNS domains.
Currently, you can't use Azure Public DNS to buy a domain name for an annual fee.
You can buy a domain name by using the App Service domains.
But then here they're saying that you need to have it either via app service domains or a third party
domain registrar.
And that's what we have.
We have a third party domain registrar We still need to have that domain in place.
We still need to have purchased the domain, but we can use Azure Public DNS as a hosting service.
What I'll do is let me go ahead with this particular demo, and then in the end, I'll just give you
a kind of clarify, maybe some of the benefits of using Azure Public DNS.
In Azure.
I'm going to create a new resource.
Actually let me do it here.
So let's create a new resource.
I'm going to search for something known as a public DNS zone.
In the marketplace.
Okay.
It's not coming up.
Let me just try DNS zone.
Right.
It's this one.
Later on we'll need to also look at private DNS zones.
For now let's choose DNS zone.
Let's create a resource based on the service.
We again have a wizard in place.
I'll choose my existing resource group here I'm going to give the name of my existing domain that I've
already bought with an external domain provider.
We can kind of add a zone file, but I won't do anything right now.
I'll go on to review and create and create this DNS zone.
While this is being done, let me go back onto my external domain provider.
Let me delete the A record that I added earlier on that maps my domain name onto the virtual machines
public IP address.
So now we kind of have a blank slate here.
Once I have the Azure DNS zone in place, the next step is I need to configure my external domain registrar
for my particular domain to use the name service of Azure.
When it comes onto this domain.
So here in my external domain registrar I'm going to go on to nameservers.
Normally, domain registrars give you this functionality of kind of having DNS records in place for
having nameservers.
Again, what our nameservers GoDaddy has these simple nameservers in place that have these records.
And what are the records, the mapping of domain names into IP addresses.
But what I'm doing right now is I'm going to click on Change Nameservers.
And I'm going to say that instead of using the inbuilt GoDaddy nameservers that is used for that translation
of the domain name or the IP address, I'm going to say that let's use our own nameservers with every
domain that you add in Azure Public domain name, you get four nameservers.
I'll need to add all of them here.
Let me add the other one as well.
I'll need to add an additional nameserver.
I'll click on save.
I'll just need to refresh this page.
Just want to make sure that the nameservers have been.
Configured accordingly so they will.
Now when it comes on to the A record for the public IP address of the VM, I will copy it.
In this public DNS zone, we should have the ability under DNS management to now add records.
There are already some record sets in place.
Let me go ahead and add a new record.
And again here we can add the different types of records in terms of an a record, a CNAME record,
so on and so forth.
I'll put in has a record in the name.
I'll leave it blank because I just want anyone who goes on to cloud Learning.com to basically go onto
the public IP address.
And here I'll put in the public IP address of the VM.
I'll click on add.
Now that we have this in place again, the same concept, if I take this URL onto a new tab again,
HP cloud Learning.com, I'm again presented with the nginx home page.
But here the only difference is when my browser reaches GoDaddy has an external domain provider.
GoDaddy will tell that you need to go onto Azure, because Azure now is managing the records for this
particular domain, and then Azure will return the IP address accordingly.
Now, normally you might be asking me what is the purpose of all this.
Why do I need to have something else to kind of route the IP addresses for the domains?
I mean, I already have my external domain provider in place, and that's an excellent question.
I mean, we can't just go ahead and use our external domain provider, But normally there are circumstances
in which you want to, you know, when you have a large infrastructure.
So you have you're using various services on Azure.
You might want to make sure that you limit everything within Azure itself.
So instead of actually using an external domain provider, which you can do because you do need that
external domain.
But when it comes onto the record sets itself, you manage everything within Azure itself, sometimes
from a security perspective.
When you're using many services on Azure, there might be a requirement wherein you also manage records
for your domain within Azure itself.
This from a security perspective, even sometimes from maintenance perspective, sometimes from an automation
perspective.
There are different perspectives wherein you might want to make use of the services within Azure itself.
Okay, now we're kind of done.
I just want to kind of showcase how we can use Azure Public DNS.
I'm going to go ahead and delete all of my resources, because now we have to look at building a private
domain name system within Azure itself.

--- Designing a Private DNS Foundation in Azure VNets ---

Now, in the subsequent chapters, I want to go through a service known as Azure Private DNS.
But before that, I want to showcase how we can set up a private DNS system within an Azure Virtual
Network.
So far, we have looked at a public DNS concept wherein we need to have a public, publicly routable
domain name.
But now I want to look at private DNS names within an Azure virtual network.
I said we need to understand the Azure Private DNS service.
But before that, which is also very important from an exam perspective, we need to understand how
to set up a private DNS system within a virtual network itself.
For this, I'm going to be building a setup in which I have three machines.
All of these machines are going to be based on Windows Server 2025.
All part of a virtual network, but within different subnets.
All of them will have public IP addresses.
Just to log onto the server and install the required tools, I'll have one central network security
group.
And I said on one of the servers, the web based server, I'm going to install internet information
services and have a sample HTML file in place.
I'll just go through the building of these servers in this particular chapter.
If you want, you can go ahead on your own and build this infrastructure.
The first machine I'm going to create is going to host something known as Microsoft Active Directory.
Active Directory Domain Services has been along for a long time.
This is Microsoft Directory Service when it comes on to centralized identity authentication and authorization.
On this particular machine, we are going to install Microsoft Active Directory domain services.
It will also have a domain Name System server also in place and in all resources within my account.
Let's start with the setup.
I'll create the first machine.
I told this machine.
Is going to be something known as the domain controller.
It's going to host this Microsoft Active Directory domain.
And on the same machine we'll also have the domain name server in place as well.
I'll leave this in East US.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
This is going to be based on Windows Server 2025 datacenter in terms of the size.
I'm going to change it.
I'm going to put it as a little bit of a larger size of standard underscore D4 s v3.
That will give me four virtual CPUs and 16 gigs of memory.
Please note that even two virtual CPUs and four gigs of memory could be sufficient enough, But I don't
want to limit myself in terms of hardware at this point in time, because the entire purpose of these
demos is to understand how to have a private DNS system in place.
So I'm choosing a slightly higher configuration for the machine in terms of the username.
I'll give a username and password.
Go to next.
For this it's going to create a new virtual network.
Let me just make sure that I put in.
I'll just make sure that I put in.
The name that I have for network.
Even for the subnets.
Now please note that as per the diagram, the web based subnet has this IP address range.
Then I just have another subnet.
Let's say it's hosting another VM.
Place it here.
Put in what should be the IP address range.
And I'll add the subnet that's actually going to hold our domain controller.
10.0.2.0 slash 24.
Click on okay.
And make sure that this particular VM is launched in this identity based subnet.
Yes I do want a public IP address in terms of the NSG.
We'll have a central one.
Let me go on to review and create and let's create this particular virtual machine.
What you'll note is in terms of the estimated cost is coming to around 274, but this is only for the
entire month.
I'm going to have this infrastructure in place for, you know, less than half an hour hopefully around
that time.
And we're only charged based on how much we use.
I said you could choose a lower size to try this out, but if you're scared in terms of the costing
aspect, don't worry, just go through these videos.
It's still very important from an exam perspective.
I'll hit on create.
What I'll do is I'm going to create the other machines.
Again, both of these machines, the web and the database machine is going to be based on Windows Server
2025.
I won't install anything on the database machine.
I'm just having it as an additional machine.
As part of this infrastructure, I'm going to install internet information services on this web based
machine.
So let me have this entire infrastructure in place and then we'll move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Building the Domain Installing AD DS & DNS on Windows Server 2025 ---

So I've come back.
I have set up all of the machines, so I have my kind of domain controller virtual machine in place.
I have another machine and then I have the web based machine.
I also have a central network security group for this central network security group.
I have attached it on to all of the subnets within the virtual network.
At the same time, I've also made sure that I have an inbound security rule that allows remote desktop
from the internet onto all of the machines.
I have logged on to all machines on the web based machine.
I've installed internet information services.
I will set up a simple default HTML page.
So now if I look at what is the private IP address of the web based machine.
So if you look at the web based machine it is 10.0.0.4.
If I go on to my Database machine has an example.
And on this machine let me open up Microsoft Edge Explorer.
You know, we should be able to reach.
The web server running on.
That web server machine via its private IP address.
Right.
This should work.
This should not be a problem.
I'll be getting the homepage accordingly off the web server.
But now I want to set up a private domain name system in such a way that we should be able to refer
to this web server via.
I set a domain name, a private domain name.
I mean, let's take an example again of Cloud Hub Learning.com.
Right.
We had seen an example of a domain name, a publicly routable domain name.
But if you don't have a public routable domain name, you want to keep everything private.
Within a virtual network, you can set up an internal domain name system.
So now in order to go ahead and do that, we are going to install the Active Directory role on this
central kind of identity based machine, this domain controller.
Once we install that Active Directory role, it will also ask us to set up a domain.
After that, we have to modify the virtual network setting to recognize this machine now has the new
DNS server for the virtual network.
In order for the other machines to kind of take this as the new domain server, we need to restart these
machines.
And then for each machine, we have to join them onto this new internal private domain.
So there's quite a number of steps to perform.
But this is all important from an exam perspective.
Just to understand how do we set up a private domain name system.
So now on.
This kind of domain controller that I have in the server dashboard I'm going to click on Add Roles and
Features.
This will bring up the wizard I'll click on next.
Click on next.
Select the server.
Click on next.
Then on this screen I'm going to select Active Directory Domain Services.
Let me select this and click on Add Features.
Let me click on next.
Click on next.
Click on next and then click on Install This.
Install something known as a role of an Active Directory Domain Services role on this machine.
At the same time, in addition to having a domain in place, we can manage the entire domain via the
use of a domain name system.
This does take some time.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now, once the installation is complete, what I'll do is let me go ahead and quickly restart the server.
So again, I am on the machine that's acting as something known as a domain controller for this machine
itself.
I'll go on to the start menu.
Let's restart the machine.
And let me log on to the machine again once the restart is complete.
Now once the restart is complete, I have logged on to the machine again.
I need to go on to this notification wherein we can promote the server onto something known as a domain
controller.
So let me go ahead and perform this operation.
We're now going to get kind of a wizard in which we can configure a new domain.
I'm going to choose to add a new forest.
I'll give the name of my domain.
So as an example I'll give a domain name of Cloud Hub Learning.com.
I'll click on next.
In the next screen we just need to kind of configure something known, has a password for the Directory
Services Restore mode.
Just enter a complex password similar to the password that you would enter for an Azure VM or click
on next.
We'll leave this option as it is the DNS options.
So please note that we don't have to kind of understand from an easy one.
For perspective, this configuration when it comes on to Active Directory.
The only reason we're doing all of this is to configure a domain within a virtual network.
So I'm just clicking on next.
Finally we just need to click on install.
You'll just keep a note that when we do click on install the server will automatically reboot at the
end of this operation.
So I'll click on install.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to wait till this is done.
Obviously the server will reboot.
We'll mark it on this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Using Your Local DNS Name Resolution Inside the VNet ---

So just a quick recap on what we have done on one of the VMs, which is behaving as a domain controller.
We have installed something known as a Microsoft Active Directory rule as part of this.
We have built a domain cloud app, Learning.com, and we also have kind of a domain name system also
running on this machine itself.
Now it's time to tell the entire Azure Virtual Network that when it comes on to internal domain name
resolution, go ahead and make use of this particular virtual machine.
Now by the way, after the installation was done, sorry, the configuration of the domain, the server
did restart.
I have logged on to the machine again.
So here we are logged in.
If I go on to the local server in the Server Manager dashboard, you will now see that this machine
is part of a domain known as Cloud Hub Learning.com.
Now, I said that the next step is to make sure that all machines refer to this particular machine.
Has the domain controller or the domain name server.
The way that we do this is what we have to note is what is the private IP address of this particular
domain controller.
So if I scroll down, the private IP address is 10.0.2.4.
Let's go on to the virtual networks for the virtual network itself.
There should be a setting known as DNS.
Let's go on to it.
In DNS.
Currently it's using the Azure provided DNS service.
I'll click on Change Custom and let me type in what is the private IP address of that domain controller
server.
So now we're telling the virtual network when it comes on to domain resolution make use of this particular
server.
Now, once this is done, I will need to restart my web based machine and also restart my site.
Database based machine.
Going on to Azure.
Let me go on to the Virtual Machines view.
Let me select Database and Web.
Go on to the context menu and click on restart.
Once the restart is complete, I will log on to both of the machines.
Once we log on to both of the machines, the next step is we will need to join the machines onto this
domain of cloud Learning.com.
This internal domain.
So let's let me just wait for a minute and let me log on to both of the machines.
Now, after the restart is complete, I have logged on to both of the machines for the web based machine.
Let me go on to local server.
Currently, both machines are part of something known as a workgroup.
Let me go ahead and change this.
So I'll click on workgroup.
When it comes on to rename this computer or change its domain I'll click on change.
We can now make this part of our domain.
Our domain is Cloud Hub learning.com.
Click on okay.
It's asked me to enter the admin user.
So I'm going to put in Cloud Hub learning.
I'm going to give the admin account of my domain controller machine.
So when building that DC machine the domain controller the username the admin username and password
that I mentioned there, I'm mentioning it here.
But the only difference is I can now mention the name of my domain slash that particular username.
I'll put in the password and we are connected onto the domain.
Now when this change is made again we will need to restart the machine.
So automatically the machine will restart.
I am doing this for the web based machine.
I'll do the same thing for my other machine as well.
DB zero one.
I'll click on workgroup.
I'll change it.
Make it part of the domain.
So cloud hub learning.
Dot com.
Click on okay Cloud hub learning slash DC admin.
You also know you are part of the domain.
And we'll need to restart this machine.
Now it comes on to the domain controller base machine.
If I go on to tools, we now have a tool of DNS.
We should be getting something known as a forward lookup zone.
This forward lookup zone will be our domain name cloud hub Learning.com.
And we can see that there are already some kind of a records in place.
The A records point onto our database, our web, and our domain controller based machine.
Here the names are kind of being clipped off.
That's because it's confining with something known as the NetBIOS name.
But what I'm going to do is now I'm going to right click and say, let's create a new a record.
This will use the same parent domain of cloud learning.com.
So I will leave it blank.
And here in terms of the IP address, let me give what is the IP address.
The private IP of my web server base machine.
I'll click on add host.
Done.
So now I also have a host record that points on to the internal domain of cloud learning.com.
And this should point on to my web server.
What I'll do quickly is let me now log in.
Onto my database server.
So I've logged in for this machine if I go on to now the edge browser.
So I'm getting the web page of Internet Information Services.
But remember now this is an internal domain.
So the entire purpose of this series of demos was to showcase how we can set up now our own kind of
private domain within a virtual network.
There are a number of steps that can be carried out.
If you want, you can go to the videos again just to get kind of a revision.
No.
Overall, I said we made use of a role available on Windows Server to set up a domain, an internal
private domain of cloud learning.com we changed the specs of the virtual network to make sure that all
resources within the virtual network now use our main DC domain controller machine for any sort of domain
name resolution.
We made sure to join the machines onto the domain, and we have now the DNS tool.
So we have that domain.
In management server tool in place now.
And it's quite similar.
We can create zones.
And then within the zones we can add our records accordingly.
I'm going to keep this infrastructure as it is.
We now want to move on to looking at Azure Private DNS.

--- Azure Private DNS ---

So in the last chapters, we saw an extensive exercise in which we set up an entire DNS solution by
installing Microsoft Active Directory and DNS on a virtual machine.
But if you need to have a managed service to host DNS, we can also make use of the Azure DNS service.
This is a reliable and secure DNS service that helps to resolve DNS names for a virtual network.
You have.
The entire idea is if, as a company, if you don't want to manage this internal infrastructure for
domain name resolution, we can make use of Azure DNS.
The process is we first will create a resource based on the Azure DNS service.
Then we have to link that zone, that DNS zone onto the virtual network.
Now in order to resolve records in a private DNS zone, you need to have a link between the virtual
network itself and the zone.
You can also enable some auto registration When this is done, the DNS records for the virtual machines
in the virtual network are automatically recorded in the DNS zone.
Now, before we can go ahead with the lab of looking at Azure DNS, I want to roll back the changes
that we had carried out in the earlier chapters.
I now want to make sure that the machines, when it comes onto our database machine and our web machine,
they now use the Domain Name system within Azure itself.
So before we set a custom domain name server.
So let's go through the steps now.
The first step is I'm going to go on to the local server.
So I'll do this for both the database and the web server.
Click on domain.
Click on change and let's set it back onto the workgroup.
So I'm basically removing it from the entire domain.
I'll click on okay.
I'll need to give the username and password again.
Once we set it back onto the workgroup.
The machine needs to be restarted again.
So I'm going to do this for the database machine.
Let me also do it for my web based machine as well.
Let me connect onto it.
I'm not going to do this step for the domain controller based server, because that's the infrastructure
we're trying to kind of not involve.
When it comes on to having a domain name system in place, we want to use the service of Azure Private
DNS.
So for my web based machine again go onto local server.
Let's change this back onto the workgroup.
So this is also done.
Now this will require a restart of this machine as well.
The next step is I need to roll back the changes.
So I need to go on to the virtual network that we have.
Go on to DNS.
In DNS click on change.
And so now we're using the custom DNS server I'll use the Azure DNS service and click on save.
And once we make this change once this is done I'll need to go on to virtual machines again for the
DB and web based machine.
Let's restart just to make sure that they take in the new settings.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Azure Private DNS ---

Now in this chapter, let's look at the implementation of Azure Private DNS.
And remember, the entire purpose of Azure Private DNS is to remove the dependency on hosting our own
sort of kind of domain controller, our own sort of domain, you know, managing the infrastructure.
We want to have a managed service when it comes onto private DNS resolution.
So with this all resources, let me create a new resource here in the marketplace.
Let me search for DNS zone.
This time I need to select private DNS zone.
Let me create a resource based on the service.
Select my resource group.
Let me give.
A domain name of cloud Learning.com.
I don't need any sort of DNS zone editor for now, I won't even enable virtual network links.
Let's do this once we have the zone in place.
Now, once we have the private DNS zone in place, let me go on to it.
Under DNS management, If we need now this zone to be used within a virtual network.
Remember this is now a managed service.
I'll need to click on add.
We can give a name for the virtual network link.
I quickly just go on to my virtual networks.
Let me just take the name of the virtual network itself.
Let's place it here.
Select that virtual network and we can enable something known as auto registration.
Now this means that the DNS records for the zone.
It will automatically be created when you have virtual machines connected to the virtual network.
Let me click on create.
So now it is creating that virtual network link.
Now by the way I have logged in to the DB base machine again.
Note that if I go on to local server, this machine is now not part of the domain it has no idea about.
Now that domain controller based machine, we can now just kind of disregard that sort of infrastructure.
We don't need that server anymore.
Everything is now part of a workgroup.
We are now trying to use a managed service when it comes on to a private DNS zone.
So currently it is in the process of creating that virtual network link.
Let's wait for a minute or two.
Now after some time, once this is done, if we go on to the record sets, we can see some of the record
sets in place.
But what I'll do is let me create a new one.
Again, let's point on to Cloud Hub Learning.com.
And this time let me put in what is the private IP address of the web based machine.
I'll click on add.
Once done going on to our DB base machine let me open up the edge browser.
And now when I go on to cloud learning.com again I'm able to reach my web server accordingly.
It's very simple.
We can make use of Azure Private DNS for internal domain name resolution.
Now that we're done, I'm going to go ahead and delete all of my resources.

--- Azure Web App - Virtual Network Integration ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters, I want to go through a feature known as the Virtual Network Integration
feature when it comes onto the Azure App Service.
In the section of compute, you know, we know that there are several ways of hosting an application.
So let's say you have a web layer and a database layer.
The web application needs to connect onto the database server.
Normally what you'll do is you'll allocate a public IP address onto the VM.
Hosting the web application.
And the database server would not have a public IP address.
Instead, the communication would be internal from the web application onto the database.
We also know that when it comes onto the web application, we could make use of a service known as the
Azure App Service or Azure Web Apps.
Now, if you do have your web application hosted using Azure Web Apps, we need to be able to connect,
let's say, to a database internally within a virtual network.
See, by default, the app service is a public service.
Hence, if the web application hosted on the Azure Web app needs to connect onto a database, that database
should be exposed also onto the internet.
But normally we have databases that are hosted within a virtual network.
If you want to have kind of private communication between the Azure Web app and the virtual network
hosting a database server, we can make use of a feature known as the Virtual Network Integration feature.
This allows access from the web app resources in the virtual to resources in the virtual network.
But please note that the other way is not possible.
So yes, the Azure Web app can talk to resources in the virtual network, but no resources within the
virtual network can initiate an outbound communication with the Azure Web app.
Now, when it comes to the App Service plan, this feature requires the basic App Service plan or higher.
This feature also requires the virtual network to be in the same region as the App Service, to enable
virtual network integration.
An empty dedicated subnet in the virtual network.
This subnet is used by the Virtual Network Integration feature.
So let's move on to the subsequent chapters.
I want to showcase a demo on how we can make use of this feature.

--- Lab - Azure Web App - Azure Virtual Network Integration - Database server ---

Now in order to look at a demo when it comes onto the virtual network integration feature, I'm going
to set up a database, a MySQL database on a VM.
We've even seen this earlier on.
We can install MySQL as a database server engine on a Linux based machine.
This will be within a subnet within a virtual network.
I've actually already gone ahead and spun up the machine in the virtual network in the subnet.
I just have one NSG in place that is linked onto the network interface.
So what we'll do first is I said let's set up the MySQL database server.
I already have the VM in place.
If I go onto Azure.
So I said in all resources currently I have my VM, the NSG, the network interface, the disk and the
virtual network.
By the serial Zero console.
I've logged on to the database server and I said I want to install MySQL.
We've already seen this earlier on.
So let me execute these steps.
First is to update the package index.
Then I will install.
So first what I'll do is let me update the package index.
Then I'll install the MySQL server.
I'll then make sure to enable the service.
I've already seen this earlier on.
I want to have the MySQL database server, a sample database, a sample table with rows of information.
I'm going to be taking the same PHP based application we had seen in this section of compute.
So in the section of compute, we had seen a PHP application connecting onto a MySQL database.
When it came on to container based applications.
Well now I just want to run the application, the PHP application as it is on the Azure Web app, and
that PHP application needs to connect securely onto our database server.
So we have the web application on a platform as a service, a public service that needs to connect privately
onto a database server.
I'll just go ahead and clear the screen.
Let me enable the MySQL service.
I will then make a change onto the MySQL daemon configuration file.
I'll scroll down, change the bind address to what is the private IP address of this machine.
So the private IP address is ten .0.0.4 control zero hit on enter control x.
So we made this change.
I'll restart the MySQL service.
Now let me log in onto MySQL.
I'll create first a user of db admin with a password.
Grant the required permissions.
Now let me create a new database.
Create a table.
Sorry, I need to use the cosmos DB.
Database first and then create the new table.
I'll then enter rows of information within the table itself.
So first and foremost I want to set up the database.
Now that we're done, let's move on to the next chapter wherein we'll set up our web application.

--- Lab - Azure Web App - Azure Virtual Network Integration - Application setup ---

In the prior chapter, I set up my SQL database on a VM.
Now let me set up a web application a PHP web application on an Azure Web app.
Now, first and foremost in all resources, I'm going to create an instance based on the web app service.
We've already seen this earlier on.
Now please note that when I create my resources, I'm using the location of central US and not East
US.
This is because I get an error when I try to create a web app in East US because of region limitations.
Hence, I'm creating my resources in the central US location.
Now let me go ahead and create a resource based on the Web App service.
Select my existing resource group.
Just give a simple name.
I don't need a unique default hostname Saying it's not available.
I'll just modify the name here in the runtime stack.
I'm going to choose PHP, whatever is the current version in central US.
I need to use the basic app service plan.
Ohio.
Go on next for the database deployment, networking monitor and secure.
Let's click on create and create the instance of our web app.
Let's come back once we have the web app in place.
Now once the deployment is complete.
I need to now upload the code that I have for PHP.
Now this is a code that we have seen earlier on I said when I came on to building container based applications.
It's a simple index dot PHP based file.
This is the only file that I'm going to upload onto the Azure Web app.
I mean, forget about these other two files.
Here we are establishing a connection onto a MySQL database for the DB host.
I'm putting the private IP address of my database server.
What is my database name?
The database admin user and the password.
And I said we're getting information to display a list of courses.
I need to upload this onto my Azure Web app.
So I'm going to go onto the Dev Tools Secure Shell.
So we'll do a manual upload of the file onto the back end compute instance.
So now once we are logged in here let me go on to site.
Then within here let me go on to dot dot dot root.
Let's create a new index dot PHP page.
I'm going to I'm going to copy the content that we have in our index dot PHP base file.
Control O on my keyboard to save here on enter and then control X to exit.
Now we have the index dot php base file in place.
But remember that this file is not going to work because it expects to connect onto the database via
its private IP address.
So let's move on to the next chapter wherein we, you know, perform a very simple set of steps to enable
the feature of virtual network integration.

--- Lab - Azure Web App - Azure Virtual Network Integration - Implementation ---

We're now on the last chapter.
We have now a web application also working in order for the web application to connect privately onto
our database server.
We now need to enable the feature of virtual network integration.
For this, let's go on to our virtual network that's hosting our database server.
We'll need to create an empty subnet.
So I'll choose to create a new subnet.
I'll just give a name.
In terms of the IP address range I'll leave everything as it is.
So it's a brand new subnet.
The only thing is when it comes onto the subnet delegation, I'll need to make sure that we delegate
this subnet onto a service known as Microsoft dot web slash server farms.
I need to search for Microsoft dot web server farms and click on add.
This is the first step to create an empty subnet.
The next step is let's go on to our Azure Web app.
Under the networking section we have a lot of configuration aspects in place.
I'm going to search for the Virtual Network integration feature.
It's currently not configured but we can go ahead and configure it.
Let me add an integration feature.
I'll select my existing virtual network and then select that empty subnet and click on connect.
We just need to wait for a minute or two for this to take effect.
Once this is done, we can take again the DNS name that's assigned on to our web app.
And within a new tab we should be able to browse to our Application.
I said, I'm just going to wait for a minute or two for this to take effect, for this to be configured,
and then we'll browse for the domain name.
So once it's configured in a new browser tab, let me go on to the domain name for our Azure Web app.
Let me go out to the index dot PHP based page.
And I can see my web app working as expected, right?
So in these set of chapters, I want to showcase how we can enable or use that virtual network integration
feature.
You're the entire idea is you want to have your Azure Web apps.
You know, you want to give that service the ability to privately communicate with the resources within
your virtual network.
Now I'm going to keep my resources as they are.
I want to go through one more chapter when it comes to Azure Web Apps, and that is custom domain names.

--- Azure Web Apps - Custom domain names ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how you can set up an existing domain in the Azure
App Service if you have your own domain name.
So as an example, within my external domain provider, I have a domain of Cloud Hub Learning.com.
Let's say you want to map this domain name onto your web application onto Azure Web app.
That's something that you can do in terms of the App Service plan.
It has to be the paid tier in order to make use of custom domain names.
You cannot use the free tier.
Let's see how we can enable the use of custom domains.
So under settings if I go onto custom domains.
I can add a new custom domain.
I'm going to choose all other domain services.
We'll use an App Service managed certificate that's available for the domain name.
I said, let me make use of the domain name that I have here.
Cloud Hub learning.com.
In order for Azure apps to make use of your custom domain, it needs you to make sure that you are the
owner of this domain name.
Hence, it's telling us that we need to add these records onto our external domain so that it can validate
that we own this particular domain itself.
I'll go and do this.
Let me copy the value.
Let's add a record accordingly.
So going on to DNS let me add a new record.
This is an A-type record at the rate put in the value and click on save.
One is an A-type record and the other is a text based record.
Let me just continue and verify.
Let's add the txt base record in terms of the host.
I'll just copy this, place it here in terms of the value.
I'll copy it onto the clipboard.
And let me paste it here.
And then click on save.
Continue and verify.
Once I verify my identity here I'm just going to wait for a minute just to make sure that these changes
take effect.
Because now what I'll have to do is I'll need to go here.
Click on the validate button.
Once I click on validate, then Azure Web Apps will go to my external domain provider and just verify
that I've added these records.
And then it'll know that I'm the owner of this domain.
So let me just wait for a minute or two.
After waiting for a minute, if I click on the validate option, it's now validating that we indeed
own that custom domain.
Once successful, I'll click on add.
This will not only add the custom domain configuration onto the web app, it's also going to make sure
that we have a match certificate in place, so that we can use the secure protocol of Https against
the web app itself.
This does take a minute or two.
So once the configuration change is done in a new tab.
Now if I go onto the URL cloud hub learning.com I can see my application in place.
In this chapter, I briefly want to go through custom domain names that you can set for your Azure Web
apps.
Now that I'm done with these set of demos, I'm going to delete all of my resources.

--- Introduction to Azure Storage Accounts ---

Hi and welcome on to the section.
Now in this section we are going to cover a very important Azure service and that is known as Azure
Storage Accounts.
In the section of compute yes, we covered a lot of important services like Azure VMs, virtual machines,
scale sets, etc. in this complete section we are focusing on Azure Storage accounts.
This is actually the fundamental building block for storage on Azure.
It actually provides a secure, highly available and scalable way to store different kinds of data.
So within a storage account you can have actually access to multiple services.
There is a service known as the blob service.
This is used for storing unstructured data like images, documents, videos, etc. you have file shares.
This is a fully managed file share on the cloud that you can access using the standard file protocols,
we have the Cue service, a very simple messaging service for communication between application components.
And then we have the table service.
The table service is used for storing structured non-relational data.
I want to give a quick example on the usage of each service.
For example, with the blob service, the blob service is, I said, mainly designed for storing large
amounts of unstructured data.
Let's say for an application, that application is used to kind of take in videos, images, etc. from
your users.
Let's say that application is hosted on a virtual machine.
Now, instead of storing the images videos that are uploaded by users on the VM itself, you can Segregate
the compute which is the VM and the storage layer.
You can store the videos, images, etc. in an Azure storage account using the blob service within the
blob service, the first thing that you'll do is to create something known as a storage container that
will hold all of your blobs, and then you can start uploading your files as objects using the service.
Then next we have the file share service.
Normally in a company, you might give a file share for users or for employees.
Users can then store their individual files in a file share, so you will have individual file shares
for each user.
In order to maintain the file share, you need to have first of all, a server in place, and you have
to have storage and then start creating those different file shares.
with the help of the Azure File Share service.
You need to manage the underlying infrastructure.
No need of a server, no need of managing storage.
You can directly create a file share, connect to the file share and start uploading your files.
So this is another service.
Then we have the queue service.
Again this is used to send messages across different components of an application.
It's a very simple messaging service.
And then finally we have the table service that is used for storing kind of non-relational structured
data as part of the exam.
AZ 104.
We have to focus a lot on the blob service, and then we have to focus on the file share service.
We are not going to work with the table service and the queue service as the main core concept we have
to learn about is the blob service.
So in this chapter, first and foremost I want to give an introduction onto Azure Storage accounts.

--- Different types of storage accounts ---

Now, before we dive into creating a storage account on Azure, which is a very simple process.
There are different types of storage accounts in place.
I want to give this quick note.
Go through this documentation link to understand the different types of storage accounts.
We have the standard general purpose v2 storage account.
When you create a storage account of this type, you get access to all services.
So you get access to the blob service.
You get access to the table service, the queue service, and the file Share service.
If you want better performance of your underlying data.
There are special types of premium based storage accounts.
You have a premium storage account based on block blobs, so these are your normal objects that you
upload onto your storage accounts.
Here, the underlying storage is backed by solid state drives, so you get better performance and lower
latency faster access to your data.
So if an organization needs that faster access to data, they can make use of a premium based storage
account.
But this is only available for certain services.
So you have it for the blob service.
And we have one for the file share service.
So again you can go through this page to understand the different types of storage accounts.
In the next chapter we are going to go ahead and create an instance of the general purpose V2 storage
account and will start working with the blob service.

--- Lab - Creating an Azure storage account ---

Right in this chapter.
Let's go ahead with the creation of an Azure Storage account.
What I can do is I can go on to the view that's available here when it comes onto storage accounts.
And we can create a new storage account.
Again we get a wizard I already created the storage account in the earlier section, but now we need
to focus on using these services in detail when it comes on to this particular section.
Now as always, we need to choose a resource group.
What I'll do is let me create a new one.
Let's go with our naming conventions wherein we put in RG just to signify this is a resource group.
If this is part of an application, let's say cloud hub learning.
This will be in our dev environment and in East US.
Click on okay.
Then I'll give a storage account name so I can put in SD let's say for the storage account Cloud hub
learning as part of my application, or if you want to put a folder name, you can put Cloud Hub, part
of our dev environment.
And in East US you can basically use, I said, any naming convention that your organization has in
terms of naming resources.
This is going to be in East US.
I'll leave it as it is.
Next is the preferred storage type.
Now when I choose Azure Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake, that means I'm creating a general purpose
V2 storage account.
In terms of redundancy.
For now I will choose locally redundant storage.
We'll be going through the concept of redundancy later on.
I'll go on to next.
We have a lot of aspects available when it comes onto a storage account.
If you enable something known as a hierarchical namespace.
You can double down the storage account as an Azure Data Lake Gen two storage account.
You can actually build an expansive data lake in Azure.
Wherein data engineers can ingest data from other sources and then perform analysis on the data accordingly.
But we won't do this.
Right now we are building a very simple Azure storage account with the various services.
I can go on to explain networking.
Please note that we need to focus on this networking aspect later on.
This will be in the networking section.
I'll go on to next.
We have data protection.
There are different configuration aspects which we will cover when it comes onto data protection, because
here Azure Blob is being used as a storage service and organizations might store To millions of objects
within the storage account.
Hence, data protection is very, very important and so is encryption.
By the way, this is managed by default, right?
It's already enabled using Microsoft managed keys.
Let me go on to review and create and let's create the storage account.
It does not take that much time.
Within a fraction of a moment you'll have your storage account in place.
So I'll click on create.
Let's come back and wait till we have the storage account in place.
Now once done, I can go on to the resource itself.
That is our storage account.
And here you'll see under data storage.
We have access to containers.
That is nothing but the blob service.
We have access to the file share service to the queue service and the table service.
Right.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Azure Blob service ---

So in the prior chapter we had create something known as an Azure Storage account.
We are going to be focusing on Azure Blob Storage.
That is the blob service.
Now this is a service that is used for storing objects on the cloud.
So if you want to store files such as your images, files such as your videos, etc., you can store
them onto blob storage.
They will be stored as objects.
This is good when you want to kind of store unstructured data.
So I said like your images, videos, etc..
So you can see what blob storage is designed for.
Again, you have support for different programming languages that can interact at a programming level
with this particular service.
We also have another variation of Azure Storage accounts and that's Azure Data Lake Storage Gen two.
So from a data engineering perspective, when you want to have a data lake in place, we can again make
use of the service now within your storage account, which we already have.
I said we can store our images has blobs.
First we need to create something known as a container.
This is kind of an, you know, an overarching folder in which you can store your blobs.
So within your storage account you will first create a container for your objects.
And then you can upload the objects itself has blobs.
So what you can do is you can actually go to this page.
You can see the different types of storage accounts that we have.
What we have done is we have created a general purpose V2 storage account.
You can see information about containers.
You can see information about the different types of blobs.
So we are focusing mainly on block blobs.
Again you will not come to know about this because we'll be uploading files from our local machine has
objects onto our Azure storage account.
So if you want to get more information about blob storage, you can actually go to this documentation
page.
For now, let's move on to the next chapter, wherein we will upload files from our local machine as
objects onto the service.

--- Lab - Blob service - Uploading objects ---

Right?
So in the prior chapter we create an Azure Storage account.
We're now going to focus on working with the blob service.
The blob service is an object storage solution that's optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured
data.
We can use the service to store objects like your images, your video files, audio files, etc. first
and foremost, we can create something known as a storage container.
A container is used to organize a set of blobs.
This is actually similar to a directory that you have within a file system.
Every file that you then upload onto the storage account would be stored as an object.
Each object would get its own unique URL that would allow you to access the object itself.
Now what I have is I have three files on my local machine.
I'm going to upload these files using the blob service onto our Azure storage account.
I have a simple Python base file.
We'll create a folder known as code.
Actually, we can't create the folder.
It's actually known as a virtual folder.
We can specify this virtual folder when we upload our file.
I have an image file in place.
We'll place in an images virtual folder.
And I have kind of a CSV file in place that has price information.
And we can upload this onto it's own virtual folder.
So going on to our Azure Storage account, I'm going to go on to containers.
And I'm going to create a new container.
So this is like a top level folder that can be used to hold your objects.
I'll give a simple name and click on create.
We can now go onto the container itself.
Within the container know, I can start uploading files from my local machine.
So in one of my local folders, I have those three files in place a code file and images file, and
a CSV file.
I'll choose my first Python based code file.
Click on open.
Now if I upload the file as it is, it will come up here.
But if you want it to be part of a virtual directory, expand the advanced settings.
So we are uploading a blob of the type block blob.
Scroll down when it says upload to folder, we can see that.
Upload this onto a virtual folder known as code.
I will click on upload and what it'll do is it will create that virtual folder of code.
And within the code folder we have a Python based file.
Similarly going back here.
Let's click on upload again.
This time I'll browse for my images base file.
Content once.
See.
Let's upload this onto a folder a virtual folder of images.
And then finally we'll upload the final file that we have on our local machine.
I'll just say this will upload onto a virtual folder known as CSV.
I'll click on upload.
So now we have our three files in three separate virtual folders.
If I go on to any file, we have the overview in which we can see something known as the URL.
We can see the last modified, the last creation time, the type, the size, etc. if I go on to edit,
I can see the details of the file so there are certain extensions that are supported in terms of viewing
the contents of the file.
Now, this is not exactly a file.
When it comes out of the blob server on your local machine, it's a file.
But when you upload the file onto the blob service, it is stored as a binary based object.
Why is it stored as a binary based object?
Why does Azure Blob Storage treat everything as a blob?
By doing so, Azure Storage can store virtually any type of file.
So instead of having a specific, you know, if you want to store, for example, images based file,
or if you want to store text based file instead of having, you know, a different type of service for
each and every type of file.
By storing, by storing everything as a binary based object, just a stream of bytes, it becomes easy
for the service to store virtually any type of object, it becomes simple to manage the objects.
It becomes flexible and scalable in nature.
If I go on to my data container, go on to the CSV.
Just click on edit and you'll see some information in place.
Then if I go back on to images, I have a sample image file in place.
Now you can go ahead and upload your own code file, your own image file and your own CSV file, any
file that you want.
You can try this out.
Create a container within the container.
You can upload the file as it is onto the container itself, or you can upload it onto a directory,
a virtual folder.
Right?
Let's mark an end to this chapter wherein we have learned.
How do we upload files from our local machine onto the blob service in Azure Storage account?

--- Lab - Blob service - Accessing objects ---

Now in the prior chapter, we had seen how we could upload files from our local machine onto the blob
service, and we have to remember that each file that we upload is uploaded as a binary based object.
For each file.
Let me take an example of the images.
Base file.
Sorry object not file object.
So for each object we get a unique URL.
So we can use this URL to access the object.
If I copy this URL onto the clipboard in a new window, I'm going to put in the URL itself.
You will see that the URL contains the name of the storage account, the service it is blob.co dot windows
dot net.
Since we are working with the blob service, what is the name of the container?
What is the name of the virtual folder Older and the name of the object itself.
Let me hit on enter.
What's going to happen is we're going to hit an error.
It's saying public access is not permitted in this particular browser tab.
We are not logging in to the storage account.
We're not logging in onto our Azure account.
We are trying to access an object in the storage account as an anonymous user.
Since this is a sensitive service, since we are trying to access data, there are various security
mechanisms that are part of this particular service as part of storage accounts by default.
You know, users or no one should have access to the data by default.
You need to decide how do you give access to your users to the objects within the storage account?
We are going to learn about the different mechanisms of offering access.
For now, I'm going to take the easiest approach, not the best approach in terms of security, but
just for you all to know that this is possible.
We will enable public anonymous access to the blobs within the container.
The way that we do this is we have to go on to our storage account.
First and foremost, I have to go on to the configuration.
Now within configuration by default, there is a setting of allow blob anonymous access.
This is disabled.
I will need to enable this and click on save.
By the way there are settings that are available at an overall storage account level.
These sometimes apply to different services, so currently this is just for the blob service.
So now it is enabled.
I'll need to go on to the overview.
Let me refresh this entire page to make sure that the setting takes effect.
Because now what I'm going to do is I'm going to go on to the container.
Go on to the data container that's holding all of our objects.
And here we can change something known as an access level.
We have three levels.
The first is private no anonymous access.
That means no one who has not authenticated or authorized themselves can access your data.
This is the preferred setting.
The next is blob.
That means anyone can read the blobs within the container.
And finally is the access to the container itself.
So this gives an external user the ability to even enumerate go through the blobs within your container.
For now, I'll just choose blob anonymous read access for blobs only and click on okay.
So now we are changing the access level of our container.
This is done.
If I now refresh this page I can see my image in place.
So now anyone can go ahead.
If they have this URL, they should be able to go ahead and access the object.
Again not the most secure approach, but just want to let you all know because we'll be going through
different approaches later on in terms of security.
Now what I'll do is let me go back to the prior setting.
I'll change it back on to private.
No anonymous access.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Azure Storage - Blob service - Different authorization techniques ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give an overview on the different authorization techniques that are
available for accessing your data within Azure Storage.
You've already seen one technique that is giving anonymous access.
What we have to remember at the core is the Azure Blob service.
The storage account is a public service.
So from my laptop via the internet, I'm able to access the objects within the blob service.
We had seen how to enable ourselves to access the blobs via the use of anonymous access.
Not the most secure approach in case.
If you do have a container that hosts images or a static website that should be available for all users
at that point in time, you can yes, enable anonymous access.
But normally this is disabled by default.
Another way to authorize users to access data is via the use of key authorization.
Each storage account gets two access keys.
These are like your passwords.
They are long strings.
They will give you access to all data within the storage account.
So again this is not the most preferred approach when it comes on to giving access, because this is
like a master password for your storage account, wherein you get access to all services and all data
within the storage account.
Then we come to the more secure ways of authorization.
One is via the use of shared access signatures.
You can generate temporary fine grained tokens.
These tokens can limit the access for the resources based on what service to access based on permissions,
and there are various aspects in which you can limit the aspects in which we can limit the access to
resources.
This is ideal for giving short term access to your data.
And then we have access based on Microsoft Entra ID.
In this particular section we will not focus on Microsoft and ID.
We will do this in the section of security because I want to first go through Microsoft and ID, and
then we'll go through giving access to storage accounts.
So we'll just cover using access keys for now and using shared access signatures.
This is to give an overview.
Let's move on to the next chapters and see how we can make use of these different authorization mechanisms.

--- Lab - Installing the Azure Storage Explorer ---

Now, in order to see how to use access keys and shared access signatures, we're going to use something
known as the Azure Storage Explorer for accessing our storage account.
Now, yes, we can access the storage account from the Azure portal.
We've seen this.
So as a starting point, yes, you can go ahead and use the storage account from here.
But normally your developers, your data engineers, your admins, maybe they don't need to go to the
Azure portal itself to work with the data.
There is a tool.
It's a freely available tool known as the Azure Storage Explorer.
This is a standalone desktop application.
This allows you to securely connect to your storage accounts and work with them directly from your machine
itself, so there's no need to log on to the Azure portal.
You can just use this client side tool with the Storage Explorer.
You can browse your storage accounts and your containers.
You can upload, you can download, you can rename.
You can delete blobs, files and directories.
You can even generate shared access signatures.
So there's a whole lot that you can do with just the Azure Storage Explorer.
The Azure Storage Explorer is available on windows, on Mac OS and on Linux.
Now, since I'm on a windows client machine, I will choose windows x64.
It's performing the download of Azure Storage Explorer.
I'll then open up the installer.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
I'll just say install for me only accept the agreement and click on install.
It needs to install dotnet as well.
Click on next.
Once again this is just a client tool.
That will allow you to interact with Azure storage accounts.
Once done we can go ahead and launch Azure Storage Explorer.
Now we have the tool in place.
Let's mark an end on this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Blob service authorization - Using Storage access keys ---

Now this chapter, let's see how we can connect on to our Azure Storage account.
We'll make use of our access keys.
I told you, each storage account gets two access keys.
Now, by the way, from Azure Storage Explorer, you can also sign in with your Azure credentials and
get access something that you can do.
We will see this later on.
Again when it comes on to Security and Microsoft.
Enter ID for now, we can right click on Storage Accounts and connect onto Azure Storage, and we get
a number of options in place.
We can connect onto the storage account or the service.
We can connect on to just a blob container onto a fileshare so on and so forth.
I want to connect onto a storage account.
We can connect using a connection string.
That's a key or a SaaS.
We can connect using a shared access signature.
Or we can use the account name and the key.
Let me choose account Name and key and click on next.
Now we have to give our account name and the account key.
How do we get this.
It's going on to our main Azure storage account.
Under security and networking.
We have access keys.
You will get.
I told you two keys.
So first we have our storage account name and then we have some key one and key two.
I'll copy the storage account name onto the clipboard and place it here.
It gives a display name.
And then we have key one and key two.
I can show key one and show key two.
You can copy either key.
As you can see, it's a long string.
It's a long password.
I can copy this onto the clipboard and paste it here.
If I click on next and click on connect, we are now connected using the access key.
What you'll notice here is you have access onto all of the services.
If you had a file share.
You should be able to see the file share.
You can see your queues and you can see your tables.
But for us, since we only have a data container in place, we can see that data container and we can
see the data within the container itself.
So we can connect using access keys.
Now the reason that you have two keys normally Azure for their services they provide this key concept
for authorization.
In case if you do have an application using a key for authorization, and let's say the key gets into
the wrong hands, what you can do is you can make your application use the secondary key, and then
you can rotate key one.
When you rotate key one it will generate a new key.
That means this old key which went into the wrong hands.
It will be invalidated and hence not work anymore.
That's the reason why you have two keys is like a primary and a secondary backup key.
Okay, now in this chapter we are done.
We are able to now work with our container in our storage account.
Why the use of access keys?

--- Using the Azure storage explorer from a macOS system ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how we can use Azure Storage Explorer from a mac
OS device.
So here on my Mac OS device, I can download and I can go into the downloads section when it comes onto
Azure Storage Explorer.
Let's download this for Mac OS.
I'll use the ARM architecture.
Now, once the download is complete, I can click on the file itself.
It's basically a zip file.
Here I have now Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer in place.
I can double click on this if you want.
You can copy this onto the applications.
I'll click on open.
And here again we have the Azure Storage Explorer.
Here I can right click and connect onto Azure Storage.
We have a set of options in place.
I can choose a storage account or a service.
We can connect using an account name and a key.
So if I go onto my storage accounts go on to an existing storage account.
You're on the security networking.
I'll go on to access keys.
Let me first copy the name of the storage account onto the clipboard.
Go on the storage explorer.
Here I click on next.
Put in the account name.
Then go back.
We can take either Key1 or Key2 to connect onto our storage account.
Let me show key one as an example.
Copy this onto the clipboard.
And let me paste the account key here.
Click on next.
Click on connect.
And here we should be connected onto our Azure Storage account.
Here we have the ability to see our data containers.
Within the containers we have the ability to upload objects onto the container.
We can download objects.
We can create new folders.
We can delete objects so on and so forth.
We can see our file shares in place.
We can see our queues and we can see our tables.
So quickly in this chapter I want to showcase how we can use Azure Storage Explorer from a mac OS device.

--- Lab - Blob service authorization - Shared Access Signatures - Blob level ---

Now in the prior chapter we had seen how we could connect using access keys.
Again, this is not the most preferred approach from a security perspective because we are giving complete
access to all data and giving complete access to all services within the storage account.
There are much more secure ways, and we are now going to look at shared access signatures.
When it comes on shared access signatures, we can enable this at different levels.
In this chapter we're going to see how we can enable this at the blob level.
So currently if I go on to my containers let me go on to the images container again just as an example.
Take the URL.
Actually I already have it right in another tab.
Let's try to refresh this.
And it's not working as expected because we have not enabled public access.
But now let's give some sort of access to this object only by using something known as shared access
signature.
So for this blob, we can see the overview, the versions snapshots.
Edit the last tab.
Generate SaaS.
Generate SaaS means generate a shared access signature.
We can generate the shared access signature using the account key.
So in the end, it is using one of the account keys to generate a unique string.
Again we're going to cover stored access policies later on.
And then we can give permissions for this particular shared access signature if we want users you know
once they get hold of this signature, if you only want them to be able to read the object, we can
give only read access if we want them to be able to change the details of the object you want them to
append.
Let's say a text based file.
We can give the right access.
If you give them delete, that means they should be able to delete the object.
I'll keep it simple.
I'll just say I want to give read permissions.
Next a very important aspect.
We have the start and expiry date time.
So this is quite useful.
You know you have a sites that might give you one week access to let's say some sort of online course
or videos etc., just as a promotional aspect.
Well, this is something that you can do with shared access signatures.
Let's say at the moment we're only giving it at a blob level, but let's say it's a single video.
You want to give access to your users for, let's say, three days and it needs to start on a certain
day at a certain time, and end on a certain day and a certain time.
You can mention in the start and expiry date time.
So whatever you get now as a URL, the shared access signature URL, it's only going to be valid between
the start and expiry date time.
Very useful.
And then we can also say that certain client machines with certain IP addresses can access the blob
based on this shared access signature.
So let me go ahead and just click on generate SaaS token and URL.
What you get is a SaaS token that you can use in your programs to access the blobs.
But we also get a blob SaaS URL.
If I copy this on the clipboard, let me go on to the tab here.
So what we'll see is yes, we do get our initial URL which is the name of the storage account, the
service, the container name, the virtual folder, the name of the object.
But after that we have as kind of a parameter a very long string.
So this is the sass token.
This sass token inside is embedded all of the details of the permissions, the details of the start
and expiry date time.
If you have a stored access policy and the allowed IP addresses, everything is embedded within this
token.
If I now hit on enter.
I should be able to see my image now.
But remember this URL is only valid between the start and expiry date time.
So a much more secure way now of giving access to your blobs.
So this is at the blob level.
Let's now move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Blob service authorization - Shared Access Signatures - Container level ---

In the last chapter, we had seen how we can securely give access using something known as a shared
access signature.
And we've done that at the blob level, where we can also do this at a container level.
So remember the container contains your blobs.
What we can do is I can.
So I'm actually in the data container right.
You're under settings where the container level not at the storage account level, not at the blob level.
At the container level, at the container level on the left hand side we have something known as shared
access tokens.
So here also the similar concept we can generate a shared access token by the use of the same settings.
We can choose an account key.
We can choose again either Q1 or Q2 in terms of permissions.
Now in addition to read I'm also going to give list.
Now the reason I'm doing this is we want to be able to also now list the objects within the container.
So I'm giving the list permissions.
I'm leaving the start and expiry date time as they are.
And I'll say let's generate the source token and the URL Water.
Again, the similar concept we get the token and the URL.
Now what happens if I just take the URL on the clipboard and place it here?
Is it going to work?
It's saying the server failed to authenticate the request.
Make sure the value of the authorization header is formed correctly, including the signature.
The problem here is from the browser.
It's not able to understand the request because we are trying to send a request onto the storage server
saying that please enumerate the blobs within the container.
It's not going to work here.
What we can do is I can go on to Azure Storage Explorer.
Let me just close this and we can disconnect.
So we had a previous authorization mechanism via the key.
So not to confuse aspects I can detach.
So let me you know kind of throw this connection.
And let's create a new connection for storage account.
I'll say again connect to Azure storage.
This time I won't say storage account or service because now we are connecting on to a blob container,
so I'll choose a blob container.
We have again different options in place.
What should we choose?
Shared access.
Signature URL.
Click on next.
Let's copy the URL again on the clipboard.
Place it here.
Let's recognize it correctly.
Click on next.
Click on connect and again we can see our data.
If I go on to any file here so you can see that we have the ability to upload a folder upload files.
We can download everything.
We can create a new file new folder.
So a lot of things that we can do here.
Let me try to delete.
This object.
We're getting an error message here saying it's failed to start the delete process because of insufficient
credentials.
Remember what we had done as part of our shared access signature?
We only gave the read and the list permissions, so we cannot delete the objects using this shared access
signature.
This marks the end of the chapter in which we looked at SaaS from a container level.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Blob service authorization -Shared Access Signatures-Storage Account level ---

Now we have seen how we could generate the shared access signature at the blob level, at the container
level.
Now we can also generate a shared access signature at the account level.
So before that I'll just close the tab of data and disconnect or detach.
Basically this connection that we don't need it on.
Let's focus now on creating a shared access signature at the storage account level at the storage account
level under security Networking.
Under access keys we have shared access signatures so we can create a shared access signature at the
storage account level.
Let me just hide this for the moment.
So because this is the account level, we can give access first of all onto various services.
So let's say that we only want to give access to the blob service.
So I will uncheck all of these permissions in terms of allowed services.
Now under the blob service.
I want to give access to the blob service itself.
I want to give access to the containers.
And let's say I want to give access to the objects.
So now we have, you know, much more options in terms of permissions because this is permissions at
the storage account level for multiple services.
Next what are the allowed permissions for this service and the resource type.
So let's say I only want to give the most base permissions of just list and add.
I don't want to enable the other permissions.
Again very simple.
I'll just enable read and list.
Then we have the same concept of the start and expiry date time.
And we have the allowed IP addresses.
And it's using one of the keys to create the shared access signature.
I'll click on generate SaaS and connection string.
So we get now a connection string which we can use in programs.
We can use the SaaS token and we can use the blob service SaaS URL.
Let's go on to the Azure Storage Explorer.
As always, I'll go onto storage accounts and connect onto Azure Storage.
This time let me choose Storage Account or a service.
This time I'm going to choose now a shared Access signature URL.
I'll click on next.
Let's copy the blob service SaaS URL onto the clipboard.
Let me paste it here.
Click on next.
Click on connect and we can see that we have access to just the blob containers.
If I go on to my data container go on to any object.
If I try to delete the object, it's not going to work because of the permissions.
So in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can create a shared access signature at the storage account
level.

--- Lab - Blob service authorization - Stored Access Policy ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through stored access policies.
Stored access policies gives an additional level of control over your shared access signatures in.
What you can do is you can define one central stored access policy.
If you are defining multiple shared access signatures, you can, you know, attach each SaaS to that
stored access policy.
See, in the event that the shared access signature gets into the wrong hands.
There is no way as such to change the permissions right on the SaaS.
But if you attach the SaaS on to something known as a stored access policy, you can actually change
the permissions of these stored access policy itself.
So there's two kind of understand how this works.
What is the purpose of stored access policy.
Let me detach.
from a current connection in Azure storage.
Then going on to my Azure storage account.
We should be able to define something known as a stored access policy.
As an example.
Let's do this at the container level.
So at the container level if I go on to my data container here we have something known as access policies.
We have something known as stored access policies.
And we have immutable blob storage.
We'll go through this later on.
I can create something known as a stored access policy.
I can give a simple policy name.
And again we have the start and expiry date time concept.
And we have the permissions.
So let me give the permissions of read and list.
Click on okay.
And very important click on save.
So what we're doing is we are creating now something known as a stored access policy at the container
level that contains the permissions and contains.
At the moment, I've not specified the start and expiry date time, but you should in your stored access
policy.
Now if I go on to shared access tokens.
Here, when generating a new shared access token, I can choose my stored access policy.
You'll note here that it's based on the key.
It's based on the policy.
But we can't choose the permissions because the permissions are based now on the policy.
Yes, we can mention our start and expiry date time here.
I'll generate the token and the URL.
We've already seen this.
Let me copy the blob source URL and let's connect from Azure Storage Explorer.
Connect to Azure Storage.
Choose the blob container, the shared access signature URL.
Click on next, place it here.
Click on next and click on connect.
We've already seen this before, right?
It works as expected.
If I go on to code, I can see the file.
If I try to delete the file, it's not going to work because this is based on the stored access policy.
I mean, we should get an error.
So we're getting an error accordingly.
Okay.
Now let's say that the shared access token gets into the wrong hands.
One way of now invalidating the shared access signature is let me close this.
Go back onto Azure.
And Azure go onto the access policy.
Now, since the access policy is tagged or the shared access is tagged to the stored access policy.
Go onto on to the context menu, click on edit.
I'll remove the permissions, click on okay and then click on save.
So imagine that you have several shared access signatures tied to the same stored access policy, and
most of them have got into the wrong hands.
You want to invalidate the shared access signatures.
What I've done is I've removed those permissions from the centralized stored access policy.
Now here let me click on refresh all.
Go back onto our storage accounts.
On to the data one based on the shared access signature.
And you are seeing the server failed to authenticate the request.
This is because we have kind of invalidated the permissions of the shared access signature.
So this is the benefit of the stored access policy.
You're having kind of a centralized place where you can define the permissions and then associated with
your shared access signatures.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - Immutable Blob Storage ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through.
Immutable blob storage.
This particular feature allows you to store your data in a write once read many state.
You're the underlying data can't be modified or deleted for a user specified interval in immutable storage.
You can set either time based retention policies or you can have legal hold policies in place.
Has a quick example.
If we go on to, let's say, our data container that has all of our data and we go on to access policy,
we have already seen how to add a stored access policy.
We also have the ability to add something known as immutable blob storage policies.
So I'll click on Add policy here.
We have two types.
We have a legal hold and time based retention.
As an example let me choose time based retention.
Let's say for just a day and click on save.
So what we're doing is for this particular container, we are giving or setting the state of only write
once, read many.
That means we are able to now read the data.
If I go on to the overview.
If I go on to, let's say our code file.
In the code file, if I go on to edit, I can see the details of the file.
But if I just make a small change and click on save, I should get an error.
And this is because of that policy that we've set in place.
So we have this ability of setting this kind of immutable blob storage policy.
This is just to ensure that no one goes ahead and makes accidental writes or deletes onto our data.
A very quick example.
What I'll do is I'll go back onto the access policy.
And delete the policy.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - Data Redundancy ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the data redundancy concept when it comes on to Azure Storage.
Now when it comes to services that Azure offers, they make sure that they maintain high availability.
So when it comes onto Azure storage, they maintain high availability of their data.
They guarantee an uptime percentage of more than 99%, 99.9%.
And in case if they breach that service, they will actually give you service credit.
So we are talking about if you look at the case of Azure Storage, we are talking about storing our
data.
So we are trusting that Azure has the right storage in place, the right capabilities of keeping our
data not only safe, but having, you know, high durability, making sure that we don't lose our data.
Hence, we have that trust with Azure that they will keep our data safe.
So when it comes onto data within Azure Storage, there are these different data redundancy options
in place and BI data redundancy.
I mean that they will make sure that we don't lose our data.
Now they have different data redundancy options in place.
By default we have locally redundant storage.
Okay.
This is the least redundant storage option in locally redundant storage.
Azure makes three copies of your data within a single data center.
So when you upload a file as an object in the blob service in your Azure storage account, there are
three copies of your data made within a single data center.
So if there is any problem, if one object gets corrupted and it's not available, your object has such
will still be available because there are multiple copies in place.
So even with the least redundant storage option, there are still three copies of your data made within
a single data center.
Then we have the next redundancy option that's known as zone redundant storage.
Now we talked about the concept of Azure regions having something known as availability zones.
So within a region you will have multiple availability zones.
Each availability zone is a collection of data centers.
See in locally redundant storage.
What happens if the entire data center goes down?
Then your objects are not available with the help of zone redundant storage your objects.
Your data is replicated across the three availability zones in a particular region.
Didn't.
So now you have more data redundancy in place.
Even if a data center goes down, your data will still be available because it will be available in
another data center, in another availability zone.
But we could go a step further.
Let's say that the entire region goes down.
So let's say in this case you have created an Azure storage account in the east US location.
The entire region has gone down and you can't access your objects.
Now please note that there's quite a big event if a region is not available with companies that really
store sensitive and critical data, they might have a requirement wherein they cannot, even for a few
minutes, have their data not available.
So they would need to look at other options, right.
More than just zone redundant storage.
So we have now geo redundant storage.
So what is geo redundant storage?
In this particular redundancy option, three copies of your data are made to a single physical location
in the primary region using locally redundant storage.
So here when you upload an object again three copies are made to the data center.
To one data center in the primary region.
So let's say east us.
If your storage account is in East US.
Then with Azure you have something known as no paid regions.
So with East US West US is taken as a paired region.
So I said, let's say that you've deployed your storage account onto the East US location.
What will happen is in geo redundant storage, your data is replicated to another region altogether.
So if the primary region goes down the main region for hosting your storage account, you can still
access your data in the secondary region.
And obviously it's great that we have these various options of increasing our data redundancy.
But what we have to understand is that the cost is also going to increase for each increase redundancy
option.
So here you are going to pay double the cost of storing your objects in the primary and in the secondary
location.
At the same time, you also pay for the bandwidth cost for the data being transferred from primary to
secondary.
So it's only for those companies that really, really need a high redundancy option for their data that
they should opt for this.
And then we have a variation when it comes onto geo redundant storage.
And that's known as geo zone redundant storage.
See in geo redundant storage in the primary location okay.
Your data is stored using layers.
All the objects are in one data center.
But in geo zone.
Redundant storage in the primary location.
Your data is replicated not just in a data center, but across three availability zones in the primary
region.
And again, three copies in your data is copied onto a secondary location.
So we have these different redundancy options in place when it comes onto your storage accounts.
So in Azure when you create a storage account.
So let's say I'm going through the process of creating a storage account here.
Let me just choose an existing resource group.
And you can give a storage account name.
We can choose the primary service.
We can choose the performance.
We have the redundancy options in place.
So we have the geo redundant storage.
We have the locally redundant storage.
We have zone redundant and we have geo zone redundant.
So when we create our storage account, we have the option of choosing our redundancy for our objects
within the storage account itself.
Right.
So in this chapter we want to go through the concept when it comes on to redundancy.

--- Storage Accounts - Introduction to Access Tiers ---

In this chapter.
Now I want to go through something known as access tiers when it comes onto the blob service in Azure
Storage accounts.
Now for us, what we've done is we have just uploaded a very few number of objects onto the blob service
in a container in a storage account.
But normally companies might store millions of objects within a storage account.
I mentioned earlier on that when you create an Azure storage account, you also have the ability to
enable something known as a hierarchical namespace and double down.
Azure storage has an Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
Naomi.
From a data engineering aspect, the data lake is used for ingesting large amounts of data.
This could be log streaming data, sensory data, large data sets, all of them within multiple containers
in your storage account.
Now, obviously when you do have these large data sets in Azure, when it comes on to costing, storage
is very important.
Here I'm giving the snippet from the Microsoft documentation when it comes on to the pricing for the
hot, the cool, the cold, and something known as the archive access tier.
With the blob service, we have something known as access tiers.
By default, your objects are placed in the hot access tier.
You can see what's the price per gig for objects within the hot access tier.
It's not that much, but I said when you start getting millions of objects or storing millions of objects
within the blob service, then this makes a big difference.
But then we have these other tiers the cool, the cold, and the archive access tiers.
So the entire purpose behind these access tiers are to kind of lighten the costs when it comes onto
your objects.
See, what you can do is initially, if the objects are being accessed frequently, you can leave them
in the hot access tier.
But then after some time when those objects are not being accessed that frequently, you can transition
them onto the other access tiers.
In this way, you can save on storage costs.
Now let's quickly go through these different access tiers.
So this is the default one which is set for your storage account is the hot access tier.
These are optimized for objects that are accessed frequently.
Then we have the cool access tier.
Now this is ideal for objects that are infrequently accessed.
An object can be set to the cool access tier, but here when you do this, the object needs to be stored
for a minimum of at least 30 days in the cool access tier.
Again, what's the purpose of the access tiers?
It is to save on storage costs.
So let's say that you have a set of objects.
They are accessed frequently for a week.
Then after that you find out that those objects are not being accessed that frequently.
So what you can do is you can change the access tier for those objects from the hot to the cool access
tier.
When you do that, you can save on storage costs for those objects.
And as you keep on doing it for more and more objects, you start saving on storage costs.
But you could let's say, for example, those objects need to be accessed frequently again.
Then it's a problem because You might need to again change the tier, but you can do so.
You can change it back from cool to the hot access tier.
But if you do it before 30 days, then there's a slight cost again for moving them back from the cool
to the hot access tier.
So you have to be very sure if those objects are not going to be frequently accessed for the next 30
days, then go ahead and shift it onto the cool access tier.
Then we have something known as the cold access tier, good for rarely accessed or modified objects.
An object can be set onto the cold access tier, but here the object needs to be stored for at least
a minimum now of 90 days.
So the storage costs of cold is less than that of cool.
The storage cost of cool is less than that of hot access tier.
And then finally we have the archive access tier.
These.
This is ideal for objects that are rarely accessed and if you need to access them.
So this is a caveat because you might be telling me if the archive access tier is the least cost in
terms of storage, why don't we just store all of our objects in the archive access tier?
Well, the problem is, if you store your objects in the archive access tier, you can't access those
objects immediately.
You would need to change the tier from the archive to either the cool, the cold, or the hot access
tier, and that takes time.
Hence, I said that's a caveat.
If you want to access the objects immediately, if, let's say there's a sudden request to access the
objects immediately, then it's a problem.
If your objects are in the archive access tier.
Another thing.
So you might be telling me again, okay, if that's the case, let me put all of my objects in the cold
access tier.
What's the problem?
I'll be saving on storage costs.
Well, the problem is that when you're looking at the storage service, us.
It's not only the storage costs that you have to consider.
There are operational costs as well.
So there is a cost for the right operations for the data in a storage account.
There is a cost for read operations.
So it's per 10,000.
And you can see the cost is not that much.
But I said when you start having more and more objects then this makes a difference.
And what you'll notice is if you try to access an object in the code access tier, it's more than that
in the cool access tier and more than that in the hot access tier.
So yes, you are saving on storage costs, but then you're adding up on operational cost.
That's why you have to ensure that only if your objects are not frequently accessed, then you consider
the cool or the cold access tier.
In the next chapter, let me showcase how we can transition objects between these different tiers.

--- Lab - Storage Accounts - Configuring access tiers ---

So you're in our storage account.
If I go on to my data container.
If we go on to any one of our virtual folders, you'll see for a particular object it is in the hot
access tier.
If I go back onto my storage account, go on to configuration.
In the configuration, you have the default access tier that can be set for your objects.
You can set to either the hot, the cool, or the cold access tier.
The archive access tier can only be set at the object level.
So if I go back onto any object.
So yes, we can set the default tier at a storage account level.
But we can also change the tier of an individual object.
If I go on to an individual object, if I choose the object.
If I go onto the object itself.
There is a change to your option here, and in changing the tier we can change it to either the cool,
the cold or the archive access tier.
And it's quite simple.
If I choose the cool access tier and click on save.
That's it.
It's already done.
You can see the access tier is the cool access tier only for this object.
So you would be saving on storage costs for this object, but you won't do it for just a small set of
objects.
You'll do it for a large number of objects, but remember that now when you try to access this object
via a read request or make changes at that point in time, the cost is going to be higher, because
here the assumption is that you are transferring this object onto the cool access tier because it is
not being accessed that frequently, but you can access the object that is possible.
You can immediately access the object in the hot, the cool, or the cold access tier.
You have immediate access to your object.
If I click on change tier again so I could transfer this back onto the hot access tier, but you're
going to pay a small penalty.
I told you that when it comes on to the cool access tier, your object should remain in this tier for
at least 30 days.
If you don't, there's a small penalty that you'll have to pay again.
It's a very small penalty because we only have one object in place for transferring it back onto the
hot access tier.
Okay, let me just change this.
Now on to the archive access tier as an example.
See here it's giving you kind of a warning or information message.
It's saying that setting the access tier to archive will make your blob inaccessible until it is.
You know, there's a process known as rehydration.
So you will rehydrate or need to rehydrate your object onto either the hot or the cool access tier,
which could take several hours.
So if you need immediate access to your object, do not put it in the archive access tier.
This is good for your long term backups.
Let's say you've taken a backup of a database, and you need to keep it for security purposes, for
compliance purposes.
And okay, if there's a request for the backup to come back, you know, and there's a time interval.
So they'll tell you, okay, fine.
You have a day or two to get the backup from Azure Storage.
At that point it's fine.
But did they ask you immediately?
I want the file, you know, and if it's in the archive access tier that's an issue.
So it depends upon your requirement for storage.
Depends for your requirement in terms of access.
If I click on save to put this in the archive access tier.
Now you'll see that we can't download the object.
And we can't do anything because it's in the archive state.
If I try to.
Let me just quickly do one thing.
I'll go on to containers, change the access level quickly.
to blob anonymous access.
Let's go on to the object now, which is in the archive access tier.
Let me copy the URL onto the clipboard, go on to a new tab and just try to access the object.
It's saying this object is sorry, this operation is not permitted on the archive blob.
So what we have to do is if we want to access the object again, we will need to change the tier.
I'll change it on to the hot access tier, something known as a rehydrate priority.
And there is an operational cost also for changing the tier again from the archive to the hot access
tier.
I'll do it.
It's fine.
I'll click on save.
But again, this will take time.
You will see that we still can't download the object.
It's currently rehydrating and this can take time.
So in this chapter I want to give you all kind of a view on the access tiers for the blobs in your storage
account.

--- Azure Blob Storage lifecycle management ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through a concept or a feature in Azure Blob storage as known as
Lifecycle Management.
Now, in the earlier chapters I talked about access tiers.
We talked about the hot, the cool, the cold, and the archive access tier.
We saw how we could transition an object from hot to cool or from hot to archive, so on and so forth.
Let's say that a company has millions of objects in place.
How would they be able to understand, okay, an object is not being accessed that frequently.
So now we need to transition that object onto let's say the cool access tier.
It's fine when you have a limited set of objects, but when you start having millions of objects in
place, you probably need to write a script.
That script will need to go onto each and every object.
The script would need to understand what was the last modified time, or the last access time for that
particular object, and then transition the object accordingly.
Well, in Azure we have something known as Azure Blob lifecycle management with lifecycle management.
We can define JSON based policies.
So JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation that can be used to transition blobs between the different
access tiers.
We can use the policies to delete current versions previous versions of snapshots after a particular
time period.
These rules apply to your block and your append blobs.
They don't apply to the system based containers.
Those are those hidden containers.
These policies run periodically and can take around 24 hours to take effect.
If you want to create kind of a simple policy, if you go on to your storage account, you're under
data management.
We have lifecycle management.
There is only one kind of rule in place.
We can go ahead and add an additional rule.
In this rule we can give.
I'll just give a simple rule name for now.
In the scope, we can apply this rule onto all blobs within a storage account, or we can limit blobs
with the help of filters.
This rule can apply just to your block blobs, and either you can apply to just your base or your snapshots
or your versions.
I'll keep it simple for now.
Let me click on next.
Now we can have conditions in place, so we can say that if the base blob was last modified, let's
say 30 days ago, then go ahead and either delete the blob.
Maybe don't require blob anymore, move it onto either of the access tiers.
So let's say as an example I move it on to the cool access tier.
And that's it.
We add now a rule onto your lifecycle management policy.
If I go on to the code view you will see the JSON policy.
Now this is important to understand the JSON policy.
There are different rules.
It's an array of rules.
This is one system based rule.
If I scroll down this is the rule that we just created.
So we have the name of the rule.
Currently there is just a type of lifecycle.
It is enabled at any point in time you can disable rule and then enable it again.
In terms of the definition okay.
So the actions are on the base blob.
There are these different actions in place.
So we are saying that only if the blob was not modified for 30 days, then move it on to the cool access
tier.
It is difficult to showcase a complete example because we have to wait for a day, and the lifecycle
rule I said runs at its own specific time.
It checks for the conditions here.
It checks for the state of the blob and then moves it accordingly.
What I'll do is in the next chapter, I want to go through some more important points when it comes
on to lifecycle management policies.

--- Azure Blob Storage lifecycle management - Further Information ---

In the last chapter, I just briefly went through the lifecycle management policy.
The entire purpose of the policy is to create rules in the form of a JSON policy.
These rules determine, based on certain actions or conditions, when to transition your objects, or
when to delete your objects, as if you had a very simple policy that you created in the last chapter
wherein we said that if a blob object is not modified for 30 days, then go ahead and move it on to
the cool access tier.
Here I'm giving a similar example where in case of this is the name of the lifecycle rule, it is enabled.
It is applied to our base blobs.
We then have our condition and we have different actions.
So we have the tier to cool wherein it will set a blob onto the cool access tier.
At the same time we have tier two cold.
We have tier two archive.
We have something known as Enable Auto tier two hot from cool.
So if a blob is in the cool access tier, and if it's accessed, then it is moved onto the hot access
tier.
This is used with in conjunction with another condition of days after the last time greater than.
Don't worry, I'll explain this.
And then finally we have the delete operation.
So we can also delete a blob based on a lifecycle rule.
Now we can create multiple rules that could impact the same object.
So we could have a rule that could move it to the cool archive tier.
We could have another rule which could see why am I saying that you could have multiple rules that could
impact an object.
Here I'm giving an example wherein this life cycle rule will only apply to the code virtual folder within
our data container.
What I've done earlier on is I said, when you create a rule, I said, let's apply it to all blobs.
But you could also be very specific.
You could say that this rule only applies to a certain container or a virtual folder within that container.
So you could have one rule that could apply to all containers.
You might have another rule that could apply to a certain container, and another rule that could apply
to a virtual folder within a container.
So let's say you have one rule that moves the tier onto the cool access tier, another rule that moves
it onto the archive access tier, and another one to delete the object.
And these are all at different levels, but maybe for a particular object.
All the rules make sense and all the rules can apply to the particular object.
How would lifecycle policy determine which rule to apply?
Should it?
Let's say delete the object, archive the object, or move it onto the cool access tier.
So if you have more than one actions that are defined for or affects a particular blob, then the lifecycle
rule will take the least expensive one that is applied.
So if there is a rule to delete the object, and if you have a rule to archive the object, and if you
have rule to move it to the cool access tier, the delete one would take precedence because it has the
least cost.
The least expensive is to delete the object.
Then you have tier to archive and then tier to cool so it moves in that way as it is only if you have
multiple rules that are being applied onto a particular blob.
Just giving some important points here.
Now next we have these different conditions.
Right.
We had put in the condition that the days after modification greater than.
We also have days after creation greater than.
We have something known as days after the last access time greater than.
Now currently you will not be able to see this particular condition of the access time for a particular
blob.
You can see when it was created and you can see when it was modified, but not when it was accessed.
In order for you all to see, in order for lifecycle management policies, for you to apply this particular
condition, what you will need to do is you will need to enable something known as access tracking.
If I go on to the list view we can enable access tracking.
So when this is enabled, access tracking checks when the blob was last accessed.
This feature obviously will incur an additional cost.
We can enable access tracking.
So this is done if I go and add a rule now so we can add I said multiple rules sorry.
Add another rule.
Say I apply this on to the versions and the base blobs and we limit it based on filters.
I'll click on next.
Now you will see that the extra condition of last accessed because we enable access tracking.
So I can say if the object was not accessed for the previous 30 days, then we could go ahead and move
it on to cool storage onto cold storage, archive storage, or delete the blob.
So let's say I move it on to cold storage.
Let me click on next.
Now, since we have also done this for the versions, we can say again for the version, maybe delete
the blob version or click on next.
Since we mentioned that we want to filter on the blobs.
So I can say only apply this rule for those blobs that are in my data container.
In my code virtual folder I'll click on add.
Once done, if I go on to the code view, you scroll down.
Now you see what the rule looks like.
So we have the name of the rule now in terms of the actions, we have one on the versions we said that
delete the version.
If the creation date is more than 30 days for the base blob, we move it on to the cool access tier
and we have the prefix match.
And there's one last note in terms of the condition of the days after the last tear change greater than.
C let's say that you have an object, and based on a particular rule, it was moved to the archive access
tier.
But there was a reason that you had to rehydrate that particular object.
Now when you rehydrate that object, it does not update the last modified or the last access time.
So what could happen is after you rehydrate the object, the rule which is already existing might kick
in again and re archive the object and it will go in a loop.
So what you can do is you can add that additional kind of condition, saying that the age in days after
there was a tier, a tier change in the particular blob.
So a lot of things to consider when you're creating lifecycle management rules in these sort of chapters.
I want to go through these important points on how you define these rules.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - Blob Snapshots ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through something known as snapshots for your blobs.
Let's say that, you know, for a particular blob, you want to take kind of a copy or a backup of that
blob at that point in time.
You can take a snapshot.
A snapshot is a read only point in time copy of a blob, a blob snapshot.
You can read that snapshot, you can copy it and delete it, but you can't modify it.
It's a read only copy.
I said in case if you want to take kind of a backup of that blob.
By the way, there is another chapter in which I showcase something known as blob versioning, where
you can have different versions of your blob.
But if you just want to take a snapshot of the blob at a point in time, we can make use of blob snapshots.
It's quite simple to make use of blob snapshots in our images virtual folder.
I have an image in place.
If I go on to the object itself, you know, in the context menu, I have the ability to create something
known as a snapshot.
So I I've created a blob snapshot at a particular point in time.
Now let me go ahead and delete this object.
There's also an option to delete the blob snapshot, but I won't check that.
I'll just say let's go ahead and delete the object here.
It's telling me that we are not able to delete the object because there is a snapshot in place.
So this is another advantage of having snapshots.
If you want to delete the object, you have to delete the snapshot as well.
But what happens is you now have a point in time capture of this particular blob.
If I go on to the object itself now, if I go on to snapshots, so we have a snapshot right of that
object, at any point in time we can download that object, we can promote it.
Let's say for example you have a code file.
We've taken a snapshot.
Someone has made a change to the code file.
What you can do is you can promote your snapshot as now the current version of the code file itself.
If you want to take read only copies of your objects, we can make use of snapshots.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - Blob Versioning ---

In this chapter, I want to go through a feature in the blob service that's known as blob versioning.
So you can actually maintain different versions of your objects in the blob service.
This allows you to kind of recover, you know, let's say someone has gone ahead and by mistake they
have made a change onto an object or by mistake, they have gone ahead and deleted an object.
If you've enabled blob versioning, you can actually recover the blob, or you can go to a prior version
of the blob itself.
By enabling blob versioning, you get read only versions of the blob every time there is a modification.
It's actually quite simple to enable.
If you go on to your storage account and we go on to data protection.
Here we have the ability to enable versioning for your blob objects.
We could either keep all versions or delete versions after a certain number of days.
So we can say that let's delete versions that are older than seven days.
And then we can click on save.
And that's it.
We've now enable versioning for our blob objects.
Let me go on to my containers in my data container.
Let me upload again my code file.
But this time I'll upload it onto my container itself not within a folder.
I'm doing this because in my code virtual folder, as per the prior chapter, I'd archive the code file.
Hence, we can go ahead and still upload objects onto our container.
If I go on to the object itself, I'll go on to edit.
Let me make a change and click on save.
So let's say that by mistake, a change has been made to this object and you want to go back onto the
prior version.
So after enabling versions, if you go on to the object itself, if you go onto the versions section,
you will now see a version ID in place.
This should be the prior version before we made the change.
If I go on to the context menu, we can download this particular version of the object.
We can kind of permanently delete the version, or we can make it the current version.
So let's try this out.
Let me make this a current version of the object.
And it goes ahead and creates another a new version.
If I go on to edit again you will see the prior version of the file.
So this is the main idea here is you want to maintain different versions.
These are read only versions of your blob objects.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Accounts - Object Replication ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the feature of object replication that is available for
your block blobs in Azure storage.
You know, there might be a requirement that you need to replicate objects.
There could be multiple reasons for this.
Maybe from an infrastructure perspective, they would tell you that you need to have a backup of objects
in another storage account.
So what object replication does is it can asynchronously copy your block blobs between a source storage
account and a destination storage account.
Another reason could be that, you know, when you create your blobs in your storage account, remember,
storage account is a regional service.
So for us, let's say I create the storage account in East US.
But maybe there are users in another region that needs access to the objects.
You might want to bring those objects again closer to the users.
So.
So you might create another storage account in the region of the users, but you need to replicate the
objects from the source onto the destination.
So there could be multiple reasons as to why you might want to make use of object replication.
Now we'll go through a quick example on how we can work with object replication.
Some prerequisites when it comes to enabling this feature are something known as change feed must be
enabled on the source account, and blob versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination.
So what I'll do is, uh, let me go on to storage accounts.
I'll right click and open the link in a new tab.
Let's create a new storage account.
We can create this in another region.
So I'll click on create.
Put this part of my resource group.
Let me change this on to let's say test and let's put it in the and let's put the storage account in,
let's say the North Europe location.
So I'm giving the storage account name Azure Blob storage.
I'll choose locally redundant storage.
Go on to next in data protection.
Let me see if I can enable versioning because this is required.
Go on review and create.
And let's create the destination storage account.
In the meantime for our source account we will need to enable something known as change feed right under
data protection.
There should be that feature of enable blob change feed.
You can again keep all the logs or we can delete the change feed logs after seven days.
I'll click on save.
So this is also done.
What we'll need is we will need to have a container in our source to copy from to our destination.
So in our destination store account.
So in our destination storage account we'll also need to have container in place.
Let me add a container.
So let's name this as data v1.
And in the destination so I can see my destination store account in place I'll go on to it.
I'll go on to containers and I'll add the same container of data v1.
This won't have any objects, right?
If I go onto data v1 in the destination, there are no objects.
I'll go on to my source account and before I upload objects onto the source account, let's scroll down
and go to Object Replication.
We can now create replication rules.
I'll create a replication rule for my destination storage account.
You can choose a source container and choose our destination.
Currently the copy is being done for only new objects, but you can do it for existing objects as well.
I'll create this replication rule.
After creating the replication rule.
Let me upload some objects.
Now onto the source storage account.
Go onto containers onto my data v1 container upload.
What I'll do is I'll just upload the files that I have on my local machine.
I'll click on open, click on upload.
Now what's going to happen is the replication rule will copy the objects.
Maybe right now, maybe after five minutes it happens asynchronously in the background.
I'll wait and come back.
Let's wait till the replication actually kicks in and see whether we get our objects in the destination
storage account.
Now, oftentimes when I go onto the containers in my destination storage account, if I go on to the
data v1 container, I can see my objects in place.
So now your objects will be replicated from your source storage account onto the destination.

--- Lab - Working with File shares ---

Hello and welcome back.
Now we've been working a lot with the Azure Blob service.
Let's work a little bit with the File Share service because that's also important from an exam perspective.
The file share service is a very simple service.
I told you when it comes on to a company, if they want to create multiple file shares for their users,
for their employees, they would need to first of all have a server in place.
They would need to maintain storage.
But Azure File Shares is a managed service.
No server required, no storage required.
Everything is managed for you.
The storage is managed on behalf of the service itself.
All I have to do is I have to go ahead and create a file share.
There are again different access tiers for the file share.
You have transaction optimized.
This is the lowest transaction cost pricing we have hot and we have cool when it comes on to the most
cost efficient storage.
So it has its own set of access tiers.
I could give a name for the file share.
Let's leave it as transaction optimized.
Go on to next.
Do you want to enable backups at this point in time?
No, I don't want to enable backups.
I just want to create the file share.
I'll go on review and create and create the file share accordingly.
It's that simple.
Now I can go on to browse wherein we can browse for the file share.
Again, similar to Azure Blob storage we can upload our files.
But here we also have the ability to add directories.
So I could add a code directory I could add an And images one and we could add CSV.
I could go on to each individual folder and upload the files that we have on our local machine.
So let's upload the Python one first.
And let's go on top upload the CSV.
And then finally the images.
Just like a very simple file and folder structure which we should be familiar with.
So this is within the Azure File share.
With Azure Blob we have that concept of being able to get a unique URL for each and every object.
This is not available.
Uh, I mean, we do have a URL, but the way that we access the objects, sorry, the files is going
to be a bit different.
So in Azure Blob it's a concept of an object.
Here it is concept of just files and folders.
If I just try to take a URL in another browser try and access this.
So it's just seeing an invalid header value, because this is not the way that you access the files
in a file share.
What we need to do is we would need to connect to the file share.
So you can connect to the file share from your local machine.
From a server you can connect from windows.
We can connect from Linux.
We can connect from Mac OS.
As an example, if I want to connect from windows, if I scroll down we can click on Show Script.
This script will create a connection and map a drive on your local windows machine to the file share.
Here it also say that the script will check if the storage account is accessible by the TCP port number
of 405, which is required for port SMB, the server message block protocol.
In case if you can't access the file share, it could be that your firewall is blocking connections
onto this port number.
I'll copy the script on the clipboard.
I'm going to open windows PowerShell on my machine.
Then in windows PowerShell I'll right click on my mouse.
Click on paste anyway.
First it is testing the connection.
On port 405.
If that is successful, it's going to go ahead and create a map a Z drive onto that file.
Share.
So this is from our local machine.
So once done in Command Prompt, you can go on to the Z drive.
This will actually be mapped onto the file share.
If I look or do a directory listing I can see my code folder, my CSV folder and my images folder.
So all we have is a file share where in the storage of the file share is being managed by the file share
service itself.
And from our local machine we are able to connect to the file share.
Very simple.
This is about using file shares.
If we want to delete the z drive mapping.
On our local machine we can go ahead and issue this command.
A very short exercise.
Just want to showcase how we can create a file.
Share how we can upload files to the file share and how we can connect to the file share itself.

--- Connecting onto a file share from macOS ---

Now in this chapter, let's see how we can connect on to a file share from a mac OS device.
Here we already have a file share in place within our Azure Storage account.
Let me click on the connect button.
And here let me go on to Mac OS.
Here again we can create a mount point.
It's saying that we need to show the script.
So let me copy the script onto the clipboard.
Let me open up utilities on my machine.
Open up a terminal.
Let me paste in the code for opening a connection onto the file share.
I'll hit on enter.
So we are connecting onto the file share itself.
And now we are connected onto the data share.
Here we can see our images folder.
And in this we should be able to see our image.
And we can see our scripts folder.
So in this chapter we want to showcase how we can connect to a file share from our Mac OS device.

--- Azure File share snapshots ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the concept wherein we can take snapshots of our entire
file share.
We have also seen this concept of snapshots with the blob service, wherein we could take a snapshot
at each individual blob object.
Here, when I add a snapshot, it's asking me just to give a comment for the snapshot.
I'll just say initial version and click on okay.
This is actually creating a snapshot of your entire file share.
What's the benefit again.
So this is a read only copy.
Let's say by mistake someone has gone ahead and removed a file from the file share.
You can go and recover it from the snapshot.
So if I go on to browse, let me go on to let's say the CSC folder.
Let's delete the file from the file share from this directory.
Going on to the snapshots.
Can go on to the snapshot itself.
We can go on to the CSC folder.
Go on to the context menu and click on restore for that particular file.
We can restore it as a copy and rename it or we can overwrite.
Now we don't have the original file in place, so it's fine.
I'll click on okay.
It should have gone ahead and restored the file back.
So if I go back onto browse go on to CSC.
I can see my file in place.
So if you want to have a read only copy of your file share, you can go ahead and opt for using file
share snapshots.

--- Azure File - Soft delete ---

In this chapter, I want to give a quick note when it comes onto the Azure File share.
Soft delete option.
This allows you to recover your file share.
If someone has gone ahead and mistakenly deleted the entire file share.
How it works is again, quite simple.
When soft delete is enabled, if someone has gone ahead and removed the entire file share, it is retained
in a soft deleted state for a defined retention period and you know before it is permanently removed
from the system itself.
If you go on to your storage account, if you click on file shares, you will see that the soft delete
option is already enabled for your file shares by default.
Anyone who has basically removed the file share within seven days, you should be able to recover the
file share, because the file share will be in a soft deleted state.
So this is good if someone has accidentally deleted the file share.
It's a good option in terms of data protection.
I just want to give this important note.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - AzCopy Tool ---

In this chapter, I want to go through something known as the A-Z Copy Utility.
It's a command line utility that you can use to copy your blobs and your files to and from a storage
account.
So there are many ways of uploading your data onto a storage account.
You could upload your files onto file shares, or you could upload objects, or you could upload files
as objects onto the blob service.
We can use Azure Storage Explorer, but we can also use as an administrator a command line utility in
the form of Azure Copy.
So easy copy can be used to copy blobs or files to or from a storage account in order to start making
use of the copy utility.
You need to download the utility on your local machine so you can install easy copy on a Linux machine
by using the package manager that's given here.
If you are on Mac OS, we can download the utility.
I'm on windows.
I'll go and download the windows 64 bit.
It will be in a zip file.
Let me just open up my downloads folder.
So I have the easy copy utility.
I'll just right click and extract all the contents here itself.
I just need the easy copy tool.
I'm going to copy that tool.
I'm going to copy that tool onto a folder that I have in this folder.
I have my files which I've been using throughout this section in terms of my code file, the image file
and the CSV file.
What I'll do is I'm going to change the way that I have structured this.
So I'll All structures in the same way that we've done it for our storage accounts in terms of the blob
service.
So I'll have an CSV folder.
I'll have one code folder and I'll have an images folder.
Then I'll move the image to the images folder.
The code to the code folder and CSV to the CSV folder.
I want to use the easy copy utility initially to create a container.
So we'll create a container in our existing Azure storage account.
And then I want to use the same utility to copy all of the files that we have on our local machine in
this particular storage folder.
So going back onto my Azure storage account I said I want to create a new container.
I already have some containers in place.
Let's create a new one.
I'll create a new one with the name of data v2.
But I want to create this now using the Easy Copy utility.
Now, in order to create our container, I will need to execute that utility.
Easy copy.
Specify the make parameter.
This will tell us that we want to create a container.
I need to mention what is our storage account name.
And within the storage account it's dot blob.co dot windows dot net.
This is the service.
And we can say that I want to create a container with the name of data v2.
Now this is not it.
I have to make it https very important.
We need some way for this command to authorize itself to create the container.
The way that we do this is with shared access signatures.
I'll go onto my storage account.
Go onto shared access signature.
job or create a signature with the permissions given here.
So we'll give the permissions except for delete we don't need for immutable blob.
So I'll just give these permissions to make it simple.
And let me generate the sass and the connection string.
So here we have the connection string which we can use within our programs.
We have the sass token and we have the blob sass URL.
Now what I can do is I can take this sass token.
I can copy the sass token onto the clipboard and we can place it here.
Okay.
So as a parameter to this particular URL, this sass token will be used by the easy Copy utility to
authorize itself to create a container.
Okay.
Let's try this out.
I will open up command prompt on my machine.
I will need to go on to that storage folder where I have the Easy Copy utility.
I'll right click on my mouse to put in that command.
It's saying it's done.
Let's verify if I go on to containers I can see my data V2 container in place.
Done.
Let's try one more command.
And this command will be to copy all of the files that we have within our current storage folder.
For this I have to say.
Easy copy.
Copy.
What is the source location of our files?
So it is in a storage folder.
I want to copy all of these sub folders and the files onto my storage account.
So this will stay the same onto my data v2 container.
My shared access signature will remain the same.
I'll just mention the recursive option, so if you have any subfolders, you can go ahead and copy those
subfolders as well.
Let me take this and let's try this out.
So again right click on my mouse.
It's looking at.
What is present in my local machine in that folder.
So it's saying the number of transfers is four.
Let's verify if I go on to the container and click on refresh.
So it's also copied the copy dot exe file.
Obviously you can go ahead and make sure that it doesn't copy this file itself.
There are ways of doing this.
I mean you can just put the copy utility in another folder itself and then invoke it from there.
But if you go on to the code virtual folder, you'll see your code file in place.
So this is just another command line utility that can be used for working with your Azure storage accounts.

--- Premium Storage Accounts ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to touch upon the premium base storage accounts.
I talked about this in the overview of the different types of storage accounts that we can create.
So we've been working with our general purpose V2 storage account that gives us access onto all services.
But at the same time we can create something known as premium Base Storage account.
So if you need better performance of your data, if you need low latency, low latency access to your
data, you can make use of premium storage.
Sometimes companies have these critical applications that need fast access to data.
If this is the case, then you might consider using premium base storage accounts from a costing perspective.
Yes, the when the storage cost is higher if you compare it with general purpose V2 storage accounts,
but the transaction cost is lower.
Again, remember for storage accounts we have different parameters when it comes onto pricing.
Now just a quick, um, demonstration of creating a premium based account.
If I go ahead and click on create.
So I'll choose my existing resource group.
Let's create one based on the blob service.
Here now I'll choose a premium based storage account.
I'll choose Azure Blobs.
And in terms of the premium account type I'll choose block blobs.
So we have the ability to create a premium storage account for the blob service that we've been using.
Or we can create a premium storage account for the file Share service.
What you'll note is when you create a premium storage account based on.
Currently, this is the blob service.
We only have two options in terms of redundancy.
Let me go directly on to review and create and let's create this premium storage account.
Just want to give an example on the creation of a premium based storage account.
If you want to create one on file shares, just go ahead and choose the option of file shares for premium.
Let's wait till the deployment is complete.
Now once done.
Under data storage.
Now you can see we only have containers.
We don't have file shares.
We don't have queues.
We don't have tables.
These services are not available.
It's only a premium based service for your blobs.
But then we can go on to our containers.
I can add a container.
So let me just go ahead and add a container.
Let me go on to the container itself and quickly upload an object.
So I'll just upload an object from my local machine.
You'll see it's pretty fast.
Another thing is if I go on to the object itself.
So we have the properties of the object, that's fine.
If I go on to change tier.
You will see that there is no concept of the hot, the cool, the cold and the archive access tier.
So currently, when it comes on to the tiers for premium based storage accounts, it's not present,
but we can create lifecycle management rules.
What can you do in the rule.
So if I just quickly just create a rule name.
Leave everything as it is and click on next.
I'll put last modified.
The only thing that we can do is we can have an action to delete the blob.
That's it.
Because we don't have those access tiers in place.
Right.
So in this chapter we want to kind of go through, you know, premium based storage accounts.
Actually, now that we are done with this particular section at this point in time, I'm going to go
ahead and delete all of my storage accounts.

--- Installing the latest version of PowerShell ---

Hi and welcome on to the section.
Now in this section we are going to cover how do we work with Azure based resources using PowerShell
and using the Azure Command Line interface?
First and foremost we'll see how do we manage resources in Azure via the use of PowerShell.
First, I want to have a quick introduction onto PowerShell.
And then we'll see how to install PowerShell on our local machine.
So PowerShell, you know, in a in plain terms it's like a command line interface or bash, but much
more richer in nature.
You can write full scripts to automate tasks using PowerShell.
You can use it as an automation framework.
It can run on windows, on Mac OS or on Linux.
It's actually built on DotNet, so you can access dotnet classes, you can build objects.
I said you can create your scripts, your programs using PowerShell just to automate tasks.
We want to look at using PowerShell to work with Azure based services first and foremost.
In order to start using PowerShell by default on a windows based machine, you will have windows PowerShell
in place.
This would be, you know, based on the version of, let's say, 5.1, but we can install the most recent
version of PowerShell on our local machine.
Going on to the Microsoft documentation page I want to look at is installing PowerShell.
So I can go on to the install section.
As you can see, we can install PowerShell on windows, on Linux, on Mac OS.
So let me choose windows since I'm on a windows based laptop.
There are different ways in which we can install PowerShell.
Let me choose the option of an MSI package a local installer.
I'll select the x64 dot MSI.
It will download the MSI on the local machine.
Let's open the file up.
It should be a very simple And straightforward installation process in the wizard.
I'll just click on next, install it onto the default location, click on next.
It will prompt me to add PowerShell to the Path Environment variable.
I'll leave it as it is.
Click on next if you want, you can enable updating, but I'll disable the updates.
I'll click on next and then finally click on install.
Now please note that in case if you can't install PowerShell, the latest version on your local machine.
So maybe you have restrictions on installing tools on the laptop.
Later on, I'm going to showcase how you can run PowerShell commands within the Azure portal itself
via Azure Cloud Shell, so don't worry if you do have the ability, go ahead and install the latest
version of PowerShell.
But if you can't, I'll showcase how you can run these commands within the Azure portal itself.
Okay, once done, I can launch PowerShell, click on the finish button and here we have PowerShell
in place, right?
Let's mark an end to this chapter.

--- Installing Azure modules for PowerShell ---

Now, if you want to use PowerShell to interact with Azure Based services, the next step will be to
install modules for Azure within PowerShell.
So within PowerShell we do have some basic functionality in place.
But if we want to make use of, let's say services, you know there are different modules that are available
for Azure.
We have the Azure PowerShell modules in place here I am on the Microsoft documentation page wherein
we have the install for windows, Linux, Mac OS.
I'm let me go on to windows.
I want to install Azure PowerShell.
On windows I'll use PowerShell Gallery.
Scroll down.
First and foremost, I'll set the PowerShell execution policy to ensure that we can install the Azure
module.
So I'm going as per the Microsoft documentation I'm going to copy this command.
Go on PowerShell.
Right click on my mouse to paste in the command and hit on enter.
This is done.
And then finally the next step will be to install the module of easy.
That's the Azure modules.
Let me copy this right click and hit on enter.
The installation of the easy modules might take around 4 to 5 minutes, but that's it.
We are done.
Then once installation is complete, we'll have the ability to work with Azure based services.
So is.
Let me mark an end to this chapter.
Let's come back once the installation is complete.

--- Lab - Creating a resource group ---

Once you've installed the modules for Azure PowerShell, the next step is to start creating PowerShell
based scripts to work with Azure based resources.
For this, I'm going to be making use of Visual Studio Code.
This is a freely available tool that you can download and install on your local machine.
If you go on to Code Visual Studio Comm, you can download the tool for free and install it.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
Once you install VS code, what I've done is on my laptop, I've just created a very simple folder.
It's an empty folder.
There's nothing in it.
We can start creating our scripts here.
Our PowerShell scripts.
And these scripts can be designed to work with your Azure based services.
Before I can start creating the scripts, I'm going to go on to extensions here.
Let's click on extensions and let me search for PowerShell.
Let me click on this PowerShell option.
Here we can install the extension in VS code.
You can extend the functionality of VS code itself by installing extensions.
So I want to install the PowerShell extension that will help us to develop scripts within VS code.
Okay, so this is done.
I'll just close this.
Go back onto the explorer, just kill this for the moment or hide the panel.
And I said we can start developing our PowerShell scripts now.
First and foremost I want to create a very simple script to define a resource group within our Azure
account.
I have logged into one of my Azure accounts over here, so I do have multiple Azure accounts in place.
You can go ahead and use any account should not make a difference.
I'm using one of my Azure accounts, your I don't I have two resource groups.
I don't have any resources in place.
What I want to do is I want to create a new resource group by the use of PowerShell.
I want to use the Azure modules when it comes onto PowerShell.
And I say define a new resource group.
Let me click on this icon to create a new file.
Let me give a name of 01. PS1.
So just to signify that we're creating a resource group, we can start adding our code here.
We have to just execute one single Commandlet.
It's called a Commandlet to create a resource group.
So if you go onto the Microsoft documentation, when it comes onto Azure PowerShell, we have these
various commandlets in place.
We have a Commandlet your new Azure easy resource group that creates an Azure Resource Group.
Here you'll get details on the syntax.
We'll get a description of the command and various examples.
If you just want to create an empty resource group you can give the name and the location.
It's very simple.
So let's do that in our script shall we.
Let's execute that command.
But the way I'm going to do this is I'm going to define some simple variable names.
These variable names will hold.
First is the name of the resource group and then the location.
You know, it's a good practice to define your values as variables because then you can reuse them when
you start having larger scripts.
And you need to reuse the same values over and over again, especially when it comes onto location Instead
of hard coding those values everywhere within your script, you can define it within variables and you
can reference the variables within your script.
I said, for us right now, things are very simple.
There's nothing much that we need to do in terms of, you know, just one commandlet.
I said later on, you're going to see that when we create a virtual machine via PowerShell, our script
is going to become really long.
And at that point in time it will be useful to use variables.
So we need to use the command of new Azure Resource Group.
You can see in Visual Studio Code it's giving that intellisense.
It's helping us to complete the command because we install that extension of PowerShell.
I can mention the name.
So the name is.
Dollar resource Group that we've mentioned here.
And the location.
So dollar location and that's it.
We're done.
I'll go ahead and just save this.
In order to run this, let me go on to a new terminal.
This hides a little bit.
We first need to execute the command of connect AC account, give in our tenant ID and then put in device
code.
So this is one form of logging in onto your Azure account via the use of PowerShell.
Let me just clear the screen just to get a better view because it was we were losing that kind of text.
Let me just put in the right arrow key.
Why am I getting this completion is because I've already run this command beforehand.
That's why it is completing the command for me.
Connect AC account is a PowerShell Commandlet that allows this session, this PowerShell session to
authorize itself now to use your Azure account.
Because here you need to execute these commands against an Azure subscription.
So before that we need to log in onto our Azure account.
We don't have any Azure portal here.
We can't log in.
So we need some form of authorization, some form of authentication right for ourselves.
So for that we can execute the command of Connect Azure account.
We give in our tenant ID how do we get our tenant ID if we go on to Azure account.
Go on to the service of Microsoft.
Enter ID in Microsoft enter ID this is your tenant ID just copy this onto the clipboard and then place
it.
Here.
We're just using a device code that gives us, you know, what will happen is it will give you now a
URL.
It will give you a code using that URL and the code.
You can then perform the process of authentication.
I'll just hit on enter.
I need to copy this URL so it is https microsoft.com.
Slash login.
Ctrl C on my keyboard.
Just pasting in the command onto a new tab.
So it's asking me for the code.
I'll need to go ahead and fetch the code.
So let me copy this.
Paste it here.
Click on next.
It will ask me now that we need to log in.
Now once we are signed in I can see my subscription and my tenant.
Now it's time to run a PowerShell script file to run the script file.
I'll just type in zero one hit tab on my keyboard.
This will complete the entire path for the file.
PS1 indicates that this is a PowerShell based script file that is the extension PowerShell.
I'll hit on enter.
What's going to happen now is it's going to run this new AZ resource group Commandlet.
In PowerShell.
PowerShell that Commandlet accepts two parameters of name and location.
We have defined the resource group name and the location here.
Hence, it will substitute those values in this Commandlet and execute the command accordingly.
We've got a response back saying that it is a success.
Let's go ahead and let's go ahead and validate.
If I go on to my resource groups so I can see it in place.
So we have started very simple.
We have just started with a simple PowerShell script to create a resource group.

--- Lab - Creating a virtual network ---

Now it comes on to the examples for looking at PowerShell.
I want to be able to create a PowerShell script that would deploy an Azure Virtual Machine.
As we know, for deploying an Azure VM, we need resources like a virtual network, a network interface,
a public IP address, so on and so forth.
Hence, I want to go step by step before we build that VM.
I want to go through building artifacts like the virtual network, the public IP address, so on and
so forth.
So in this chapter let's go through building a virtual network.
For this I'll create a new PowerShell script file.
I'll name this as VNet dot PS1.
Now for building the virtual network.
We do need the resource group and the location.
So I'll copy those variables in this new script file.
I'll just close this.
Just hide this.
The command for creating a new virtual network is New Azure Virtual Network.
Now please note that I've already gone through the Microsoft documentation in looking at all of these
commands for each and every commandlet just go to the Microsoft documentation to get a better understanding
on what all you can configure in the Commandlet.
If you're already familiar and we are familiar with what goes into creating a virtual network in the
wizard in the Azure portal, when you create a virtual network, we mention things like or we configure
aspects such as the name of the network, the address prefix, the location.
Hence the same aspects is what you can configure even in the commandlet.
Let me define two variables here.
I'll just copy them.
One is for the name of the virtual network and the other is for the address space.
So let's say I want to define a virtual network that will have an IP address space of 10.0.0.0 slash
16.
So these are my variables.
Let's complete the command.
So first is the name.
The name I'm getting from VNet name.
Then the resource group name.
We can go on to the next line on a windows based machine I can put in the character to go on to the
next line.
So this will tell a PowerShell that this command continues on to the next line.
I can put in the location.
And what's next is the address prefix.
Everything is being completed for us.
It's becoming much more simpler.
So that is the address space.
So we are making use of all of our variables here, making sure that it is coming up in this particular
command.
Let's go ahead and save this going on to the terminal.
Very simple.
I'll just type in zero two tab on my keyboard.
Hit on enter and it should execute this PowerShell script file.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now once done.
Going on to all resources in Azure I can see my virtual network in place if I go onto it.
I should see that it has that address space right.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter.
Please note that this virtual network currently does not have any subnets.
Let's define a subnet in the next chapter.

--- Using Azure Cloud Shell ---

Now, early on, I didn't mention that if you cannot install PowerShell on your laptop on your local
machine, this could be due to various limitations.
We could also execute our PowerShell scripts and even later on when I showcase using Azure CLI to work
with Azure Based services, we can run all of this within Azure Cloud Shell.
I'm just pointing on to the icon Cloud Shell.
Azure Cloud Shell is an authenticated browser based terminal that you can launch from the Azure portal
itself.
Let me go ahead and just run this.
We have the option of choosing either bash or PowerShell.
With Cloud Shell we are automatically authenticated with our Azure admin credentials.
The benefit of Cloud Shell is within the browser.
We can run Azure PowerShell base commands.
It's already pre-installed.
We can execute Azure CLI commands that is also pre-installed, so no need to install anything.
You can start executing commands here in the shell itself.
We can also upload files, but those files only exist for an existing session.
Once I close this the session is lost.
If you want to persist files, you need to attach it onto an Azure file share.
So once we have Azure Cloud Shell in place now what we can do is I can execute this command.
So I can type in new Azure virtual network, give the name of the network, so on and so forth.
Or I could just simply go to Manage Files, click on upload.
I'm just going on to one of my folders.
I have that PowerShell script file in place.
This PowerShell script file is designed to create an Azure Virtual Network, so currently I don't have
any resources in place.
Then I can just run that PowerShell script base file and then it should run accordingly.
So the benefit of Azure Cloud Shell is first of all, you are authenticated via Azure admin credentials
or any credentials that you define in Microsoft Azure ID, you don't need to specifically log in onto
Azure account.
You don't have to install PowerShell.
You don't have to install the Azure PowerShell modules.
You don't need to install Azure CLI.
You can just go ahead and start executing your PowerShell base commands.
Now once done, if I click on refresh, I can see my virtual network in place.
I can just go ahead and close the session.
I said, if you want to persist files in Azure Cloud Shell, you will need to attach an Azure File share.
This marks the end of this chapter.
I said I just want to showcase how we can execute commands within Azure Cloud Shell.
If we don't have the capability of executing commands on our local machine.

--- Lab - Adding a subnet ---

Now in the prior chapter, what we've done is we create a simple PowerShell script file that deployed
a virtual network.
But in this virtual network, we don't have any subnets in place.
Let's do one thing.
Let's create a new PowerShell script file in which we'll deploy a subnet onto our virtual network.
Now the command for adding a subnet or the process of adding a subnet, is a little bit different from
what we are used to in terms of building the resource group and the virtual network.
We already have the virtual network defined.
Hence, if you are having a script that's going to add a subnet, the first step is we need to get a
handle or we need to link it onto our existing virtual network.
So here we are not creating a virtual network.
We already have it.
We have to first acquire a handle onto our existing virtual network in Azure, and then add a subnet
onto the virtual network itself.
The way that we do this is we're going to use the command net this time of get.
So there are different verbs.
There are verbs like new to add something new there is get that can allow us to now get the details
of an existing virtual network in order to get the details of an existing virtual network.
So the command is get virtual network.
That's it.
For this, we need to pass in the name of the virtual network and the resource group.
So from the previous script let me copy the resource group variable name and the name of the virtual
network.
So I'm going to say get virtual network pass in the resource group name and the name of the virtual
network.
So VNet name.
This will allow us now to get a handle onto the existing virtual network.
This get virtual network will return to you an object.
That object will hold the values the properties of the existing virtual network.
I can define a new variable here to hold what is returned by the statement of Get Azure Virtual Network,
and we can reuse it now later on.
So we are using Get Azure Virtual Network to get the details of an existing network.
And whatever is returned via this command.
on.
It's an entire object that has information about our existing network.
We can now have a variable that points onto that object.
In order to add the subnet.
Okay, I need two more variables.
We need the subnet name.
So I'll just give a subnet name and its address prefix.
So I'm giving address prefix of 1.0.0.0 slash 24.
The way that we add the subnet is add A-Z.
So it's a different verb.
Now add virtual network subnet config.
We give the name of our subnet.
What is the virtual network VNet.
So that is our new VNet object.
And then is the address prefix.
This is for the subnet.
The subnet address prefix.
If we want, we can go on to the next line.
So this will allow us now to add that subnet configuration.
But the problem this is not the end.
This add adds virtual network.
Subnet configuration only adds the configuration to this local VNet object.
It will still not update the virtual network in Azure.
So I said what this VNet what this get Azure Virtual network does is it gets it creates an object internally
on your laptop in memory that has the properties of the existing virtual network to that internal memory
on your laptop.
Right.
We're adding our subnet configuration, but we still need to execute another command that will push
the update onto Azure.
For this, what we do is we execute the command of set AZ again a new verb set a virtual network.
And we just need to pass in the way that we pass it in is we take our VNet object and directly using
pipe characters that's available piping in PowerShell.
It's very famous.
We can just push in the entire object onto this particular command.
So set Azure Virtual Network will now update the VNet in Azure.
And remember this VNet now has a new subnet configuration.
Let's save this.
Let's run this.
To add the subnet.
And once they're done let's confirm going on to Azure for our virtual network I just clicked on refresh
and I can see my subnet in place right.
So in this chapter I want to showcase how we can use PowerShell to add a subnet onto an existing virtual
network.

--- Lab - Creating a network interface ---

Now in this chapter, let's see how we can create a network interface in Azure.
I said I'm going step by step.
In the end I want to build a VM.
We have built a virtual network that will hold our VM.
We have a subnet within the virtual network.
We know that a virtual machine needs a primary network interface or traffic is routed via the network
interface.
Hence, let me create a new.
PowerShell script file to define that network interface.
Now for the network interface the command is new AZ network interface.
As part of the network interface, we need to give a name for the interface itself.
We have to give the resource group name.
I'm not adding it right now.
I'm just telling you what all is required.
Then we need obviously the location.
Normally these are the basic configuration properties for resource.
Next we have to give the subnet or the subnet ID.
So this is the entire subnet object.
We've already been familiar.
Now in the last chapter we are already familiar as per the last chapter on working with these dotnet
objects that hold the properties of our resource.
Well, even here now for the network interface, we need the entire subnet object.
And then we just give in a very simple IP configuration name.
You know that IP config.
What I'll do is let me just hard code for the moment the IP configuration name.
So we need all of this.
So let's copy uh or define the resource group name the location and the network interface name.
So this is quite simple.
Yeah I'll just put in the nickname.
Then uh, here is the resource group name.
Here is the location.
Now, the only problem is how do we get the subnet to get the subnet?
It's a two step process.
First we have to get the virtual network something that we had done in the previous script.
I will go ahead and just paste in this command to get the details of our existing virtual network.
And for this we need the name of the virtual network.
This will allow us to get a handle onto the virtual network as an object.
Next we need to get a handle.
Now onto the subnet.
So let me put this in a new variable of subnet.
I need to use the command of get a virtual network.
Subnet configuration.
Here we give in the name of our subnet.
So let me define that as a new variable here.
So this will be the subnet name.
And the virtual network.
So this is the entire virtual network object.
Once this is in place now I can put in subnet here.
This will allow us to create the network interface in this subnet.
Let's try this out shall we.
Let's run zero four.
And let's wait till this is done.
Oh it's already done.
Let's confirm.
Let's go on to all resources and click on refresh.
Sometimes it takes time.
Let me refresh the entire page.
And I can see my network interface in place.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to showcase how we can use PowerShell to deploy a network interface.

--- Lab - Public IP Address ---

Hi and welcome back in our journey into understanding how to deploy resources via PowerShell.
In this chapter, I want to showcase how we can deploy a public IP address.
What I've gone ahead and done is to save time, I create a new PowerShell script base file.
I've added the common variables of the resource group name, the location, and what is the name I want
to give for the public IP address?
The command to create a new public IP address is new public IP address.
Here we have to give the name for the public IP address.
The resource group name.
The location.
Then what is the SKU?
So currently we just have the standard skill.
And what is the allocation method which could be either dynamic or static?
You can see that we're getting help from VS code.
So I'll put a static.
Now this is not the end.
Okay.
We have this will definitely go ahead and deploy our public IP address.
But I want to attach this public IP address onto our network interface.
So based on our understanding in networking we understand that if we want let's say a public IP address
assigned onto an Azure VM, that public IP address needs to be assigned onto the network interface for
the network interface.
If you go on to ipconfig, you do remember that there is a default IP config, right?
We can allocate a public IP address.
So I want in addition to just creating this public IP address I also want to link this onto to our existing
network interface.
How do we do this?
Well, firstly I need to use the get AZ network interface command to make sure that we get a handle
onto our existing network interface.
So we understand that for existing resources, we will need to go ahead and do this.
I need to give my network interface name.
Let me add a new variable here to add in the name.
This is based on our previous script as well and the resource group name.
I'm going to assign this on to a new variable.
So our network interface object will come here.
Once this is done we can use the command of set AZ network interface IP config.
A separate command.
Let We have to give the name of our current IP configuration.
So based on our previous script, this was the name that we had given.
So I'm just putting it as a new variable here.
So for our current IP config let me go on to the next line.
I have to mention our network interface as well.
I mean this is how the command has been developed.
This is what we need to provide.
And then is the public IP address.
So we need to pass in our entire public IP address object.
What I can do is here when we create a new public IP address, even at this point in time, once this
command is done, it will return to your program.
It can return to your program and an entire object that contains the properties of your new public IP
address.
Hence, I can define a new variable that will take in that entire returned newly created public IP address,
and then I can pass it here.
If you don't want any output to come on to the, you know, the terminal, when we execute the commands,
we can put in again a pipe filter and just put everything onto null.
This is just in case if you don't want to have the commands, you know, give you any sort of output
that it depends upon you.
Just giving an example here.
Finally, this is only being done at the internal memory level.
We still need to execute the command of set A's network interface.
Again pass Was in a network interface.
And a network interface object itself.
Let me save this.
Let's run this and see if it works as expected.
Let's clear the screen.
So this is zero five.
So in this PowerShell script what I'm trying to do is yes, I am trying to create a public IP address.
But at the same time I also need to make sure that I want to associate that public IP address onto the
network interface.
Now I am getting an error here.
It's saying the SSL connection could not be established.
If this happens, you will need to again log in onto your Azure account.
So I'll just delete my current terminals.
There could have been a problem.
So I'll go on to the terminal.
A new terminal.
Connect on to my Azure account again.
Once done, let's execute the PowerShell script again.
So it partially ran.
So saying that, do you want to overwrite the resource?
If you want you can put as yes or you can put as no.
I just put as yes to rewrite the resource.
So this is in case if you already have the resource defined.
So maybe the PowerShell command it went through partially wherein it created the public IP address,
but it could not attach it onto the network interface.
That is to make sure that we have that clean slate in place.
You know, once this is done let me confirm.
Yeah.
Let me go on all resources.
Click on refresh.
Yes.
We do have the public IP address.
If I go on to the network interface for the network interface we should be able to see yes we can see
the public IP.
It is attached accordingly.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Creating the Azure Virtual Machine ---

Now, in this chapter I want to go through now the creation of an Azure VM.
So now in our Azure subscription we have a virtual network.
We have an NSG.
We have a network interface and a public IP address.
I now want to create a virtual machine based on Ubuntu Server 24.04.
I created a new PowerShell script file.
I placed in the variables of the resource group name, the location, the VM name, and the VM size.
Also, to save on time, instead of now typing in all the commands, I'm going to paste in the commands
from my already prepared script over here.
I'll explain each command as we go along.
The first command I'm going to paste in is creating the VM config in order to create the actual Azure
VM is actually quite simple.
The command is if I just place it all the way down, done.
It's new Asbmb we pass in our resource group name, we pass in our location, but we don't pass in the
name of the virtual machine.
We have to pass in an entire object that has the configuration of the virtual machine itself.
So we need to execute various commands now beforehand Commandlets to define the configuration of the
VM.
And then we can pass it on to the new AZ command.
So the first is to create that new AZ vm config.
In this I'm passing in the name of our virtual machine and what should be the size?
I'm putting it as standard underscore b1 s.
The next step is to update this VM config.
So we are executing the command of set AZ vm operating system, wherein we provide the wherein.
We say that this is based on Linux.
We are providing a computer name.
We are passing that initial VM.
VM.
We are passing in that initial VM config and something known as a credential.
We can ask PowerShell.
Please request us in a secure way to provide the username and password that can be set for the admin
account for the VM.
We can use a get credential cmdlet, which can request us now to pass in the username and password.
This can be set now has the details of the admin account for the virtual machine.
The next step is to update again the VM config with our image.
We have to provide the details of the image from the Azure Marketplace, saying that it needs to be
based on Ubuntu Server 24.0.
For every image in the marketplace, has a publisher name and offer the version and the SKUs.
If I want Ubuntu Server 24.04, these are the details that I need to add.
Next, I need to attach.
The current network interface that we have onto RBM.
For this I'm first going to execute the command of get A-Z network interface to get a handle onto our
existing network interface.
And then finally I'll update the VM config to add that network interface.
Here we are passing that VM config object and the id of our network interface accordingly.
So this is a script that you can now use to deploy an Azure VM based on Ubuntu Server.
Let me go on to the terminal.
Let me ensure that I also put a variable name for the network interface.
I'll save this.
Now let's run.
Now let's run our PowerShell script file.
You'll see that it's prompting me to enter a username and password.
This username and password will be set for the admin account of the virtual machine.
What you'll notice here is PowerShell is creating now a standard storage account in the same region
as the VM.
This standard storage account is being used for boot diagnostics of the VM itself.
Once this is done going on to all resources, I'll click on refresh.
I can see my resources in place.
We can see the virtual machine.
If I go on to it, the virtual machine will be based on ubuntu 24.04.
It has its size and yes, it is linked onto.
If I go on to the network settings, we'll see that it is linked onto our network interface.
It has its public IP address.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to showcase how we can create now an Azure VM via the use of PowerShell.

--- Lab - Adding a data disk ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how we can create a new data disk and attach it onto an
existing VM.
In the prior chapter, we deployed a new Azure Virtual Machine.
The VM has its OS level disk.
I want to showcase how we can use PowerShell to create a new disk and attach it onto the VM.
I'll again go through the process of just pasting in the commands to save on time, because now we are
already familiar with the process of.
We can get the commands from the Microsoft documentation, and we just need to make sure that we pass
in the required parameter values onto each commandlet.
Now, in order to create a new data disk, I need to execute the command of add AZ VM data disk.
I can give it a name.
I can provide a size in gigs we can put in a logical unit number.
We are saying that create an empty disk.
So this is the definition the creation of the data disk.
But what we'll notice is we also need to pass in the value of a VM object.
Hence let me put in a command to get now the details of our existing Azure VM using the command of get
Azure VM.
Putting in the resource group name and the VM name.
Our current virtual machine.
We get a handle onto our existing VM has this object and then we can pass it on to this add Azure VM
data disk command.
I'm going to return it here.
Now what this will do is it will add this data this this new data disk only internally onto the memory
object.
I'll need to execute the command of update easy VM.
Provide the resource group name.
And just provide in our entire VM object.
So it's a two step process right.
We need to first add our data disk and update the VM with the data disk itself.
So make sure we pass in the parameter properly.
Let's go ahead and save this.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let me run.
A PowerShell script file.
Once done let's confirm if I click on refresh.
I can see my data disk in place.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Creating a storage account ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through how we can create an Azure storage account using PowerShell.
But before that, let me delete all of the resources that I have.
Deployed as part of our prior chapters.
You know, the virtual network, the network interface, so on and so forth.
Let's have a clean slate.
Let's go ahead with the simple deployment of a storage account in PowerShell.
Let me create a new file.
So let's say storage account dot PS1.
The Commandlet to create a new storage account is new Azure Storage account.
For this we need to pass in our resource group name.
So let me put in a new parameter.
So the resource group name.
Then is the name that we want to assign onto our storage account.
So let me put in a storage account name here as a new variable.
Then is definitely the location of our storage account.
So let me have a new variable for that.
Then is the kind of storage accounts I want to create a general purpose V2 storage account.
You need to mention something known as the kind.
And then finally is the skew.
The skew will just tell us that yes, we want a general purpose standard based on locally redundant
storage.
So this is known as the skew name.
And I mentioned the skew.
Let me go ahead and save this.
Going on to the terminal.
Let's go ahead and run this PowerShell script file okay.
It's saying it's already taken.
Let me put in a new storage account name and let's try this again.
It's good that the validation is done beforehand.
Once done, if I click on refresh in Azure I can see my storage account in place.
I also still have the data disk, but I'll go ahead and delete the resources.
Right.
So in this chapter briefly want to go through how we can go ahead and deploy an Azure storage account.

--- Azure CLI ---

Now the next chapters, we're going to see how we can use the Azure command line interface to interact
with Azure based services.
We have looked at PowerShell.
PowerShell is more of a general platform of general language that you can use, not only for Azure,
you can use it for Microsoft 365 as well and other services.
Azure Command Line Interface is a cross-platform command line tool that is specifically meant to work
with Azure based services itself.
You can have commands that can execute just like PowerShell.
First and foremost, get started with Azure CLI.
We will need to install it.
The installation is available for windows, Linux, Mac OS.
Since I'm on a windows based laptop, I'll choose install the Azure CLI.
On windows, I'll select Microsoft Installer.
And download the MSI of the Azure CLI.
The 64 bit version.
Once the download is complete, let me start the installation process, which will be quite simple.
You'll accept the terms in the license agreement and click on install.
So it's a very simple and straightforward installation.
Once complete I'll click on finish.
So let's mark it in order this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating a resource group ---

I said.
The Azure command line interface is specifically meant to work with your Azure based services as a starting
point, just like with PowerShell.
We are going to look at a command to create a resource group.
And again it's just a command.
If you go onto the Microsoft documentation look at Azure CLI.
Here I am on the page that gives us details on the commands to execute to.
For example, to create a new resource group to delete one to check if a resource group exists.
If I go on Azure Group create, it will give you how do you you know what parameters that you can pass
into this command.
And it gives you an example as well.
Now I'm going to use VS code to execute our Azure CLI commands.
For that let me create a new terminal.
I just want to make sure that Azure command line interface is actually installed and reflected within
Visual Studio Code in PowerShell.
Remember, in order to log into our account, we have to do a connect A-Z account for Azure CLI.
We have to execute the command of A-Z login.
This will allow us to login onto our Azure account.
So here it's saying the term is not recognized and that just because I will need to close VSCode and
open VSCode again.
Just to make sure that it takes in that new installation of Azure command line.
I'll delete.
All of my prior terminals and let's try this again.
Let me create a new terminal.
Let's do an A-Z.
So I log in.
So I log in on to my existing Azure account.
So I logged in.
It's asking us to select a subscription since I only have one.
I'll just hit on enter.
That's it.
We are now logged in onto our Azure account.
So the first step is we have to run the AZ login command to log into our Azure account.
How should we now go about issuing the Azure CLI commands.
So I could go on to the terminal and type in AZ group create to create our resource group.
What we can do.
One more thing.
What I can do is I can create a new PowerShell script file.
So you must be wondering PowerShell script file okay.
Why is that so easy?
CLI and say to create a resource group and let me do a PS one.
Let me.
Sorry.
Delete.
My existing Resource group because we need to recreate this again.
And then within this new PowerShell script file, I'm going to put in our resource group name and our
location.
And here I'll put in the command of not this is not now a PowerShell command.
This is an Azure CLI command.
What I'm just doing is I'm using PowerShell as a wrapper to kind of, you know, I'm making I'm using
the power of PowerShell, you know, to kind of define these variables and also just execute commands.
So in PowerShell.
So PowerShell is quite powerful.
We can execute even our AZ, you know, Azure CLI commands.
So I can do an AZ group create here.
This is how we mentioned the name of our resource group.
And then the location.
There are two ways in which you can pass in parameters.
One is via the long form.
There is also a short form as well.
If I actually do, I think an n it should work, but let me just put in the long forms.
So we have an understanding of the parameters that are accepted.
Let me go ahead and save this.
Okay.
Now that we don't have that resource group in place.
Let me go on to the terminal and let's execute our PowerShell script file.
Remember in the end what this is doing.
This is using Azure command line interface to create a resource group.
So it's saying it has succeeded.
Let's verify.
Let's take some time.
Let me refresh the entire page.
Yes.
And now I can see my resource group in place.
Right.
So let's mark an end to this chapter wherein we have started our kind of brief journey onto using Azure
CLI.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating a virtual network ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use Azure CLI to deploy a virtual network.
I create a new PowerShell script file.
Don't get confused, we're just using PowerShell as it has a wrapper to kind of define variables.
I've already gone ahead and defined variables in terms of the resource group name, the location.
What should be the name of the virtual network?
What should be the address space?
We're going to create a subnet now itself as part of the virtual network and also specify its address
prefix.
So I'm using PowerShell as a wrapper to hold these variables and also execute our Azure CLI commands
for creating the network.
It's AZ network VNet create.
And again you can refer on to the Microsoft documentation on what all is required for this particular
command.
So first is the resource group name.
Then definitely is the location.
Next is the name of the virtual network.
Next is the address Prefix prefixes because you can have many of them.
This is the address space.
Then next is.
The subnet names.
So we can pass in subnets.
So let's pass in a subnet name.
And what is the subnet prefix.
Let's go ahead and save this.
Going on to the terminal.
Let me just clear the screen and let me just run this.
Making sure that I put in.
Right.
Sorry.
It was my mistake.
Save this.
And in a moment's time, we should be having our virtual network in place.
Once done, we can verify going on to all resources.
I can see the virtual network in place.
I should see that it has its address space.
Going on to the subnets, I can see my subnet also in place.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating a Public IP address ---

Now, in this chapter I want to go through, how do we create a public IP address via the use of Azure
CLI?
I've gone ahead and create a new PowerShell script file.
I'm placing in the resource group name, the location and the name that I want to give onto my public
IP address.
The command is AZ network public IP create.
I need to give the resource group name and obviously is the location.
Then the name I want to give onto the public IP address.
Then the SKU so I can put in the SKU has standard.
What is the allocation method.
This would be static.
And finally what is the version.
So IP version four.
Let's save this.
Let's try this out.
Going on to the terminal just clear the screen.
Let's execute this PowerShell script file.
This is already done.
Going out all resources.
Let's click on refresh.
Right.
It's done.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating a network interface ---

Turn the chapter.
Let's quickly look at how do we create a network interface using Azure CLI.
At the same time, I want to ensure that we attach the public IP address onto this network interface.
And we also know that a network interface needs to be part of a subnet.
Hence, I also have the subnet name in place here.
The command is AZ network nic create wherein we mention a resource group name.
The location.
What is the name that we want to allocate onto the network interface?
What is the name of the network.
So this is also required the name of the virtual network.
So this is VNet name that I've defined.
And what is a subnet within the virtual network.
And then finally the attachment onto the public IP address.
Let's save this.
Let's go on to the terminal.
So quite simple commands when it comes onto Azure CLI.
And we're done.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating a network security group ---

Now in this chapter, let's see how we can create a network interface via the use of Azure CLI.
I already have the basic variable names in place.
So first we need to create the network interface.
Wherein we mention the resource group name.
What is the name that we want to allocate onto the resource onto the network security group.
So this is the entity name.
And what is the location.
Now for the individual rules that we want to define.
The command is Azure network NSG rule create.
And then we need to mention all of the various parameters.
So first is the resource group.
Next is to which network security group do we want to attach the rule to?
A name for the rule.
Let's say, as an example, we want to allow traffic for secure shell.
What is the priority?
Is it an allow or deny rule?
Is it an inbound or an outbound rule?
What is the protocol?
What is the source address prefix?
So as an example here I'm giving a service tag of the internet putting star.
Any has a source port range in the destination.
Just as an example, if we want to target the destination has let's say the private IP address of an
Azure VM.
And then finally what is the destination port number of port 22?
I can add another rule here.
This is to allow let's say traffic from the internet.
I'm again attaching it onto the network security group.
I'm giving a priority.
It's an allow rule.
An inbound rule from the internet traffic on port 80.
I'll click on save if you want.
We can put this as the destination address.
Prefix has the private IP address of a machine.
If I want to attach this NSG onto a subnet, we have to issue the command of AZ network VNet subnet
update.
Here we mention the resource group name.
What is the name of our virtual network that I've defined?
Then what is the name of the subnet that we want to attach to.
And then finally what is the network.
Work security group.
So that's energy name.
Let's go ahead and save this.
Let's go on to the terminal and let's run this.
PowerShell script file.
So this should now create a new network security group and attach it onto the subnet.
This is done.
It's now adding the rules.
And then it will attach it onto the subnet accordingly.
Once done let's confirm going onto Azure.
Let me click on refresh.
I can see the energy in place.
Let's confirm in terms of the rules.
Right.
It's fine.
If I go on to the subnets.
Yes, it is linked onto our subnet.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating the storage account ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the creation of an Azure Storage account.
I defined the variables in a new PowerShell script file wherein I have the resource group name, the
location, the name of a storage account.
I'll keep it unique, the kind of storage account that I want to create.
General purpose v2, and it should be a standard storage account based on locally redundant storage.
The Azure CLI command is Azure Storage account create.
We mentioned the name that we want to allocate onto our storage account.
Next is the resource group name.
Then we have the location.
What is the SKU that we've already mentioned here.
And then finally what is the kind of storage account.
Let me save this.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let's run this.
Once done, let's confirm.
Let me go on to all resources.
Click on refresh.
Sometimes it does take some time.
Let me go on to storage accounts.
Right now I can see the account in place.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Creating the Azure Virtual Machine ---

Now in this chapter, let's go through the creation of an Azure VM.
We have our network interface in place.
We have a virtual network with a subnet.
Let's place a VM in that subnet in the virtual network and attach the network interface.
What we'll also do is in this complete script let's create an availability set as well.
Let's make sure that the VM is made part of that availability set.
And we'll also add a data disk.
I've gone ahead and added the variables that are pertinent onto our current.
Let me just copy the storage account name that we created earlier on.
So in terms of the variable names I have the location, the name that we want to give onto our availability
set and our data disk, our VM, the VM size, what is the name of our existing network interface and
the name of our existing storage account?
So first and foremost, let's create our availability set.
We need to mention our resource group name.
Mention the name of our set.
Definitely we need to set what is the location?
We can put in what is the number of fault domains that we want and the number of update domains as part
of our a baby set.
Next let's create our data disk.
So it's easy disk create.
And as always we need a resource group.
We definitely need the location again.
The name of our data disk.
What is the size in gigs?
Let's give us 16.
And what is SKU?
We'll put a standard SSD layers.
Now we can do an easy VM create.
Here we mention the resource group name.
We mention our location.
What is the name that we want to assign onto our virtual machine.
We want to assign the network interface onto the VM.
What is the size of the virtual machine?
We want to assign this on to our available set.
I want to put in an admin username so we can put this as let's say Linux admin.
For the authentication type let's press Secure Shell or this will also do is this will generate.
You can generate the secure shell keys.
And in terms of the image to use.
So I'm going to say let's use the canonical image that's available for Ubuntu Server 24.04.
Once we have the VM in place I'll use the AZ VM disk attach command to attach the data disk onto our
VM.
For this we give the resource group name.
Give the name of our VM.
The name of our data disk.
Specify the logical unit number.
And if you want to mention any caching.
If you want to enable boot diagnostics.
Sticks.
SVM diagnostics enable mention the resource group name.
Mention the VM name.
And we can mention the storage account kind of link the service.
So it's https.
We can use string interpolation.
We can use string interpolation where in we can put in our storage account name.co dot windows.
Net.
Let me go ahead and save this.
Let's go on to the terminal and let's run.
This PowerShell script file.
So it has created the availability set.
It has created the data disk.
It's now created the Azure VM, you can see that it is assigned the private IP address and the public
IP address.
Once this is done, let's confirm.
Let's go on to all resources.
I can see my VM in place.
The VM has.
Let's go onto the VM itself first.
So we can see the VM is based on Ubuntu Server.
It has a size.
It has the public IP address.
If we go on to the disk we can see it has that data disk in place.
If we go on to the availability set we should see that this machine is part of the set itself.
So in this chapter want to showcase how we can deploy an Azure VM.
Now that we are done I will delete all of my resources.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Azure Web App ---

Now, in this chapter I briefly want to go through how do we create an Azure Web app?
I've defined the variables of an app service plan because we do require this as well.
And the name of the web app itself.
So first let's carry out the command of creating the App Service plan.
So it's easy app service plan create.
We need the resource group name.
We need the location.
We need the name that we want to allocate onto our app service plan.
What is the type of plan that we're going to create?
We want to create a free app service plan.
And we want to say that please base this plan on the Linux operating system.
Then we can create the Azure Web app itself.
Here we give in our resource group name.
Give in the name of.
Our web app.
Tell that we need to create this as part of our app service plan, and we can also mention a runtime
saying that.
Let this let this web app be configured to use PHP version 8.3.
Let me click on save.
Let's go on to the terminal and let's run this.
Now once done, we can confirm going on to Azure.
So I can see at least my app service plan in place.
This is based on the Linux plan.
Sorry.
Going and clicking on refresh I can see my web app in place going on to configuration just to make sure
that it's based on version on PHP version 8.3.
Yes, and it is based on this current version.
So this marks the end of this chapter.
I'll go ahead and delete my resources accordingly.

--- What are Azure Resource Manager templates ---

So in this section we are now going to focus on building something known as ARM templates.
That's Azure Resource Manager templates.
In the prior sections we have looked at numerous examples on building resources within Azure.
We have seen how to build virtual machines, how to build storage accounts, so on and so forth.
Normally in companies you would need to build a full application environment in Azure, where in you
could have a set of machines, you could have a set of storage accounts, you could have other services
like Azure SQL databases, so on and so forth.
At the same time, you might need to rebuild these environments for let's say dev or test for UAT for
prod, trying to build numerous resources via the use of the Azure portal itself.
Using the wizard can be, you know, can become tedious over time if you want to make your actions repeatable
in nature.
You want to audit them.
You want to have consistent deployments.
We can make use of ARM based templates.
Azure Resource Manager templates.
An ARM template is a declarative, JSON based file that describes the desired state of your Azure resources.
Hence, within your ARM template you would declare okay, what should be the state of the virtual network?
So you want to have a virtual network in Azure with a particular name, with a particular IP address
prefix, where a set of subnets, so on and so forth.
You want to have a VM based on let's say ubuntu.
You would define that in your ARM based template.
Then once you have these template deployments in place, all you need to do is you need to submit these
templates aren't, Azure Resource Manager, and Azure Resource Manager would deploy the resources based
on the definition of a template.
Some of the benefits of maintaining templates are.
So firstly consistency.
You can define the same blueprint when it comes onto your dev your test or your prod environments.
Speed.
Instead of going through the wizard over and over again for building different resources, you can build
them much more faster via the use of a code base file.
Another is auditing.
You can maintain different versions of your code file, and it also helps you define kind of an audit
trail when it comes onto your resources deployed.
We are going to go through examples on deploying resources in Azure based on ARM based templates.
In this chapter one have that quick introduction.

--- ARM Template structure ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the structure of an ARM template.
So obviously these templates are going to have some sort of structure, because when you submit these
templates onto Azure, based on the structure of the template, Azure will go ahead and define your
resources accordingly.
In the Microsoft documentation, you can see the basic template format.
In the template format we have the schema.
The schema is just a URL that tells, let's say tools like Visual Studio Code how to validate the JSON
based documents.
Then we have the content version.
This is a free form version string that you can define.
It does not affect the behavior of the deployment of the resources in Azure.
It is just a way for a team to collaborate on changes that are happening within the template itself,
by maintaining different versions.
Our main.
The main heart of your template is the resources section.
In the resources section, you declare the different resources that you want to create or update within
Azure.
In resources, you will define the type of resource that you want to, you know, create in Azure,
what is the name, location, so on and so forth.
We can define variables.
These are kind of local values in your template.
You can define them once and then reuse it within the template.
You can define it once and reuse it within the template itself.
We have parameters.
These are values that you can pass at the deployment time of the template.
So let's say you want to specify the region for the deployment of resources.
Instead of hard coding the region in the template you can pass.
The region has a value during the deployment time itself.
This is the basic template structure.
Obviously, in the subsequent chapters, when we start going through building ARM based templates,
you'll get a better understanding.
If you want to get an overview, go through this documentation link to understand about the basic ARM
template structure.

--- Setting up Visual Studio Code ---

Now, in this chapter, I just want to perform the brief step of making sure that we have environment
in place for building arm based templates.
For this, I'm going to be using Visual Studio Code.
This is a freely available tool that you can download on your local machine.
If you go on to Code Visual Studio, we have a download for windows that is available.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
Once you install VS code, create an empty local folder.
So for example, on my C drive I create a new templates empty folder.
You can go ahead and open up that folder.
We can start placing our templates within this folder itself.
Next I want to go on to extensions.
So with the help of extensions we can extend the functionality of VS code.
I want to search for arm.
And click on Azure Resource Manager and click on install this extension.
This makes it a little bit more easier to build ARM templates within VS code itself.
You know once done, we can start building our templates.
I'll just close this.
I can create a new file, you know, give it a name of let's say zero one template dot JSON.
So it has to be in JSON, JavaScript Object Notation.
And then we can start building our code as it is becomes easy to generate a template.
If I just type in arm and hit tab on my keyboard, I get the entire structure in place.
At the same time, it's starting something known as an ARM template language server.
That will help us to actually start building the templates within VS code itself.
In this chapter, I just want to kind of perform that very brief step of having kind of something,
you know, environment in place on our laptop that will help us to start building Azure Resource Manager
templates.

--- Lab - Deploying a resource group - Building the template ---

Now, just to start with building a template, we're going to start very simple.
Let's create a template that will deploy an Azure Resource group.
I said we are starting very very simple.
Then later on I'll showcase how do we build a storage account, how do we build a virtual network,
a public IP address, so on and so forth.
I said, let's start simple.
Let's look at a very basic ARM template for deploying a resource group.
In order to showcase this now here I am in one of my Azure accounts.
I'm going to be using this Azure account for the deployment of resources based on this template.
Again you can use your own Azure account.
So within VS code previously we get one simple zero one template dot JSON base file.
Let me go ahead and just rename this template.
So let's name this as zero one.
And give the name of RG just to signify that we are creating a resource group.
And let's hide this.
So this is the basic template structure in which we have the schema.
We have the content version.
So internally you can go ahead and version your files.
We have parameters functions variables resources and outputs.
The main thing is the resources section.
So we'll be working a lot with the resources section.
Here is where you mention the resources that you want to deploy onto Azure.
So I said what we want to do is we want to deploy an Azure resource group.
Now here itself, if I start typing, let's say I want to build that resource group.
It's giving that intellisense in VSCode because we install that extension.
If I click on this, this arm RG that signifies that we want to create a resource group.
It's actually added a snippet of code.
This snippet of code will actually allow us now to deploy a resource group via the use of this template.
And it's actually quite simple.
You know, if you look at JSON, it's a very simple language.
In this resources section we have kind of an array of resources.
So we can define multiple resources here in this particular block.
We then have one JSON object within this object.
So it's defined within the curly braces.
We have the definition of the resource that we want to deploy.
Now here I said I want to deploy a resource group.
We can give a name.
So let's say I want to give the name of my resource group has.
RG 104.
So what we'll be doing in earlier sections.
Remember we were using this as the resource group.
What is a type.
So we know that different services in Azure have their different types.
Here it is Microsoft Dot resources slash resource groups.
What is the API version.
Has functionality does change Azure based services.
The API's also increment in terms of their versions.
What should be the location of the resource group?
I don't want the depends on clause, so I can go ahead and remove this.
And I do want to have any tags.
I'm trying to keep it as simple as possible.
Let's go ahead and save this.
Now for each and every resource that you deploy onto Azure via IRM.
You can refer onto the Microsoft documentation.
If I search for an ARM template deployment of a resource group, I'll be directed onto this page.
Now within this page it's asking us to choose a deployment language.
We have ARM template that we are focusing on.
We have another deployment language that's known as Terraform that's available from another company.
And then we have bicep.
So we'll be covering bicep as well in a later on section.
But let's focus on arm template.
In ARM template we have these different versions I said has the functionality of services you know improve
over time.
They change over time.
Obviously the API version will also change.
If I scroll down we'll see the resource format.
Now since I'm only deploying a resource group, it's very simple.
Remember, for a resource group deployment, there's nothing much that we have to define.
It's just the name, the location, so on and so forth.
Later on when we deploy, let's say a storage account.
At that point in time, you will see a whole list of properties that we can actually define, because
we know that that's there's so much that we can configure for an Azure storage account.
And on this page you will see what each and every property value is a description.
Well note is this is the current API version.
If I just copy this because currently I can see that in terms of our deployment it's giving the prior
API version.
So I can always go ahead and change it.
And that's it.
We have our ARM template in place.
Let's mark it in on this chapter.
Let's move on to the next where we can deploy our template.

--- Lab - Deploying a resource group - Deployment via PowerShell ---

Now in the project, we define our simple ARM template for the deployment of a resource group.
There are different ways in which we can deploy the template.
We can do.
We can do it via the Azure portal.
We can do it via Azure PowerShell or via the Azure Command line interface.
I'm going to showcase how we can use Azure PowerShell to deploy our template in VS code.
I'm going to go on to the terminal and choose to create a new terminal.
I will execute the command of Connect Azure account.
I'm going to give something known as a tenant ID.
To get the tenant ID.
Within your Azure account, go on to Microsoft.
Enter ID here you have the tenant ID I'll just copy this onto the clipboard.
Paste it here and say that I want to log in via the use of a device code.
He's asked us to go onto https microsoft.com.
Device login.
So let me go onto that URL.
So I've gone onto that URL.
It's asked me to enter the code.
I will enter the code as it is here.
After entering the code, I'll click on next.
I will log in with my Azure account.
I'm going to log in as my Azure admin.
Click on continue.
So now we should be signed in.
We are signed on to our account.
The command that I'm going to use for deploying this template is new easy deployment.
I'll mention the location as East US, and then we specify a parameter of the template file wherein
I can mention okay, I want to execute.
So I'll just type in zero one and tab on my keyboard.
It will give me the full path of my file.
I'll hit on enter and then I'll get a response back saying that the provisioning state has succeeded
going on to Azure.
If I go on to my resource groups here, I can see my resource group in place.
We have started very simple.
We've just built a template to deploy a resource group.
And then I shown you how you can deploy the template via the use of Azure PowerShell.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Account - Building the template ---

And welcome back.
Now in this chapter, let's see how we can deploy an Azure storage account via the use of an ARM template.
What I'll do here is let's create a new JSON file.
So I'll choose to create a new file.
Let's name this as zero two storage dot JSON.
Let me close this.
I can choose to create a basic ARM template.
And in terms of the resource.
So we want to create a storage account.
I can start a type in storage based on the intellisense in Visual Studio Code.
It's telling that do you want to actually add a snippet for the resource block based on ARM storage?
I'll go ahead and select this accordingly.
So now here in terms of JSON, we have the name value pair again of the name of the storage account.
We have the type the API version.
If we want to add tags, the location, the kind, the SKU, etc. if you go on to the documentation
page when it comes on to an ARM template for Azure Storage, you are going to see that there are a lot
of things that we can configure for the storage account itself.
So here you can see you can configure a variety of aspects when it comes to Azure storage.
So for example if you want to allow blob public access what should be the default access tier.
So on and so forth.
We're going to keep ours very very simple.
I'll just copy the latest API version.
Place it here in terms of the name of the storage account.
Let me put in a default name here for the storage account.
At this point in time.
I don't want to add any tags in terms of the location.
There's something known as resource group dot location.
We'll cover this a little bit later on.
For now let me hardcode the location within the template.
We have the kind has storage v2 in terms of the SKU.
Let me choose having a standard.
So I want to create a standard general purpose V2 storage account based on locally redundant storage.
Or delete this.
I'm keeping my template very, very simple in nature.
So I'll go ahead and save this.
In order to deploy this template, let's go on to Azure and see how we can create a template deployment
from there.
So within Azure let me choose to create a new resource.
You are searched for template deployment using custom templates.
I won't choose this particular option, so I'll say let's create a new template deployment.
Here we have the ability to create our own template in the editor.
We have some common templates in place, but I'll select.
Let's build our own template in the editor since we already have the template in place.
On to VS code.
Let me select all of this.
Go back here and place everything in the template editor here on the left hand side.
It has understood that yes you want to create one resource based on Azure Storage.
I'll click on save.
I'll select my existing resource group in East US.
Go on to review and create.
And we can go ahead and have this custom deployment in place.
Please.
So I'm actually getting an error.
It's saying that the storage account name has already been taken, and it's going back onto the template.
Let me choose to again edit the template.
So I'll just change the name of the storage account.
Select all of this.
Place it here.
Click on save again.
Select my resource group and the location.
Go on to Review and Create.
Let's click on create.
So now we are performing a deployment of a storage account.
But this time it's via a template.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once done, if I go on to all resources I can see my storage account in place.
Right.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter wherein we have seen how to now deploy an Azure storage account
via the use of an ARM template.

--- Lab - Creating a Network Security Group ---

In this chapter, let's see how we can deploy a network security group on Azure.
Again I have a new JSON based file.
Let's see if there is something for NSG.
So yes, there is the snippet for the Network Security group.
Now what this is doing is this is deploying a new NSG.
So based on this type we can give a name.
So let me go ahead and just quickly give a name for the NSG.
So let's say I want to give a name of.
Energy AZ 104 shared.
You know later on we're going to see how do we associate this onto our subnets.
Remember, an energy a network security group can be attached onto either a network interface or onto
a subnet.
Let me put it in the recent API version.
Leave the location as it is.
Remember that an energy Is set up based on rules under the properties.
Now we can define rules.
Each rule is an is within an array of security rules.
We can give the name.
And again for each rule we have properties in which we can give the description.
What is a protocol.
What is a source?
Port range.
What is a source address prefix?
The destination, the access, the priority and the direction.
We've already seen this, right?
We're already familiar with defining nsgs.
We know that there are inbound and outbound security rules.
And we can define for each rule, the source, the destination, whether the access is allowed or denied,
and what is a priority.
Now here's an example.
Let's say that I want to define a rule that would allow traffic Onto the machine.
So let's say we're deploying an ubuntu machine, an ubuntu server, onto our virtual network.
Later on, we want to have a rule that will allow us to secure shell.
If you want to keep it simple, let me just give a name here.
So let's say in the name of the rule we want to allow SSH traffic.
We can give the same as the description for now.
Just for now.
To keep it simple in terms of the source port range and the destination, I'll just keep it as star
for the priority.
Let me put as 400 and for the port number, remember the port number needs to be for the destination
port 22.
Let me go and just save this.
So let's say that you want to have one rule that will allow secure shell traffic onto any destination
from any source.
Not a great rule in terms of security, but I'm trying to keep things simple.
So we have one rule as part of the NSG.
I want to kind of change this a little bit.
I want to make use of variables.
Now within this particular chapter.
Now the whole point of variables is if you want to reuse the same value multiple times within the template,
you can define it as a variable.
So as an example here I'm going to define three variables I've defined three variables.
We have the variable name and its value.
So a variable name of rule name in which I've given the name I've given a priority.
And I have a port number.
So now here within the security rules.
Instead of hard coding the value, I can say let's fetch it from the variable section.
How do we get it from the variable section?
So first I'll type in the square brackets which allows us to have expression's value within ARM templates.
I'll say let's get this from the variables.
And let's take this from the name.
Similarly for the description, let's take the same thing since I'm putting it as the name itself.
Then in terms of the destination port number again variables and I'll take in the port number.
And this is a priority right.
So take in the variables and the priority.
So in this way I said if you want to kind of reuse values within your code, you will define the values
here, but then you can reuse those values.
I said if you have a longer ARM template wherein you need, you know, let's say the rule name somewhere
else or the rule priority somewhere else, then you can use it accordingly.
See for example here I'm making use of the same variable in the name and the same variable in the description.
Similarly, we also have a variable for the name.
Of the security group.
You can change it here.
So this is for the name.
Taking it from the variables this time I want to have the NSG name.
Let me add one more block to add one more rule.
So let's say that this rule is meant to allow traffic from the internet or to a web server running on
a VM.
And we've already seen this earlier on, but I want to define it now.
While the use of an ARM template I'm going to add variable names.
Again this is for a service tag of the internet.
Just imagine that we're going to have a VM that's going to be attached onto a network interface.
And on that VM we'll have a web server running.
This is the private IP address of that network interface.
The port number of port 80 giving a rule name.
And this is the priority.
So scrolling down.
I'll go ahead and change all of this to reflect us taking.
The details from the variables.
So for now I'll just put the source port range as star.
Save all this.
Okay.
I can also put in the rule name that I've defined here in terms of the variable.
Right.
So in this template what we're doing is we are deploying a network security group.
But the only difference is now I want to showcase the use of variables within the template.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let's run this.
And let's wait till this is complete.
Once done.
If I go on all resources and click on refresh, if I go on to my NSG just to confirm that we have all
of our rules in place, and yes, we do.
In this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use a template to deploy a network security group.

--- Lab - Attaching NSG’s to the subnets ---

Now in the prior chapter, what we've done is I had deployed an NSG, a network security group, onto
Azure via the use of an ARM template.
We have defined inbound rules, but so far this NSG is not linked on to any network interface and it
is not linked onto any subnets.
In this chapter, let's see how we can link it onto the subnets as an example.
Let's say I want to link this onto both subnets.
How do I do this.
One way is for each subnet that you have in your virtual network.
You uh kind of link it onto the network security group.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back onto.
My VNet definition here in the VNet definition.
What we can do is for our subnets when it comes on to the properties of each subnet.
We can actually mention the network security groups here.
This itself is a JSON object.
And as always we need the ID of the network security group.
So this will be again an evaluation of an expression.
And we know that we can use the resource ID function to get what is the ID of the network security group.
So I'll put in first of all what is the resource type.
And then what is the name of our NSG.
So I'll copy this going back here.
Place it.
So again this resource ID expression or this function will fetch us the resource ID of the NSG based
on this type and based on the name, let me copy the same block.
So the comma along with this particular block and let me place it here.
Let's say I want this energy to be attached onto both subnets.
Let me save this.
So making sure this is network security group.
So even the you know sometimes in VSCode the intellisense is not giving the actual properties of each
resource.
You always need to validate this from the Microsoft documentation.
Now once this is done let me go on to the terminal.
Let me run zero three VNet again.
Let me hit on enter.
Now what's going to happen?
Do you think that this template will delete our virtual network and then recreate again?
Well, the answer is no.
All it's going to do is it is going to understand.
Okay, we already have a virtual network in place.
We have that virtual network at the same name and the subnets.
The only thing is there's a configuration change now.
Hence it will only update the subnets within the virtual network and link it onto the network security
group.
That's it.
You'll see that the provisioning has succeeded, but it has not gone ahead and recreated the virtual
network.
No, it has gone ahead and performed an update on the network.
That's it.
Here we have something known as a mode.
We have the incremental mode.
So here the changes are incremental in nature.
If I now go on to the subnets for my NSG, if I go back onto network interfaces and go back onto subnets,
I can now see that the NSG is linked onto both subnets.
So in this example, I want to showcase how we can make a change onto an existing template.
The change was that we are now linking the network security groups or to subnets.

--- Lab - Using parameters in an ARM template ---

And welcome back.
Now, in the prior chapter, I'd shown you how we can deploy an entire Azure VM using existing resources
in Azure.
In this chapter, I want to again create a VM, but this time around I want to make use of parameters.
If you want to infuse values within your ARM template during the deployment time, then we can make
use of parameters.
Currently what we've been doing is we've been making use of variables.
But in variables we need to again mention the value here itself right during the definition of the template.
But I said let's say you're deploying, you know, using the same template to deploy resources in dev
in a particular region.
And you want to not put in the region of the resource group.
You don't want to put the region you know has a variable at runtime when you deploy the template at
that point in time, you want to mention the region as it has an example.
We can make use of parameters.
I have a new file here zero eight parameters dot JSON.
Let me copy whatever I have in zero seven VM.
Place it here.
We'll make use of the same file, but this time let me create some parameters.
Here is an example.
Let me create two parameters.
One is let's say for the name of the VM that I want to pass on to.
This deployment.
For each parameter we can mention what is the type.
So there are different types available.
So we have boolean.
We have integers.
If you have a numeric value it will be an integer.
It could be a boolean value of true or false.
But ours is a string.
The virtual machine name is going to be a string.
We can mention a default value in case if no one does provide a value for the VM name, we can have
a default value in place.
Let me just put in a default value.
And then you know we have different things.
So we can put in allowed values the maximum length the maximum value so on and so forth.
I'm going to put in metadata in which we can put in kind of a description of this parameter.
So I'll just paste in a description.
One is the VM name.
Another is let's say for the admin username that I want to pass in on to the virtual machine.
So again this is of the type string.
Let me put in a default value.
So putting the default value of is this the closing for this.
So let's put in default value of Linux admin.
And put in a description.
So here I can see a red squiggly line.
So there is an invalid property identifier.
Actually to separate each parameter we don't need a separate JSON block.
That's why it's giving me that error.
So I don't need this one as well.
So now it's okay.
So we have our two parameters in place.
Note that we have this yellow squiggly line that's telling us that this parameter name has been defined,
but it's never been used in this template.
Let's go ahead and use it.
So we have the name of the machine and the admin username.
Let's scroll down where we have the definition of our virtual machine.
For the name.
Now let's have it as an expression and let's dig in from the parameters.
So let's take in the VM name since we also need.
This has the computer name as well.
I'll paste in the same code, and for the admin username we'll take it from the parameters.
So this is the admin username.
So what we're doing is we are making our template much more flexible in nature wherein we, you know,
want to infuse values at runtime.
There are various ways in which we can pass in the values to the parameters.
In this chapter let's look at one way going on to the terminal.
So let me go on to my existing terminal.
I want to now run zero eight and for each parameter.
So we have the VM name I can mention what is the value to pass.
Let's say VM dev.
East US web.
Zero two.
And I don't pass in a value for the admin username, since I have a default value in place in the ARM
template.
If we don't explicitly mention a parameter value, it will take the default value that we defined in
the template itself.
But you can see this is different from variables.
In variables we can't change the value at runtime.
So we are now running the template.
At definition time.
We can put in the value of the variable.
You want to make your template more dynamic in nature, wherein you make users who run the template
actually pass in values.
So we can define parameters.
One way of passing the value of the parameter is we pass.
We give in the parameter name and the value.
Now the problem is here.
If I hit on enter, we're going to run into an error.
And why it's not going to be because of the VM name.
We are specifying specifying a new VM name.
Right.
So that should not be a problem.
Our problem is going to come up in the OS level disk.
And obviously the network interface.
You know in the definition of VM block our VM block.
If I go back onto.
Our definition here.
So for the virtual machine there's no problem with the hardware profile.
That's fine.
The OS profile is fine.
The storage profile is fine.
The problem is the OS level disk right.
We already have one in place and it's already attached onto our current VM.
So we're going to get an error.
So if you need this to be dynamic in nature you will need to create a new OS level disk in terms of
the name.
And also we need to be dynamic in terms of our network profile.
Hence we'll get an error Just to make this simple, just to showcase how parameters work, I will delete
the OS level disk.
I'll delete RBM.
The network interface is fine.
The public IP address.
I'll just delete these two resources and then we'll execute our ARM template.
Now by the way you know if you, you know, need to be more flexible in terms of building infrastructure
as code.
We are going to be looking at a section on Bicep.
So Microsoft now recommends using Bicep as your programming language for infrastructure as code.
I do have a section on kind of the basics on Bicep, but then I have an entire project in which I'm
going to showcase how do we, you know, use Bicep in much more detail in terms of building infrastructure.
You know, initially probably a year or two ago, I would probably look at using ARM templates, but
I said no.
Microsoft recommends using Bicep as your language of choice when defining infrastructure as code.
Hence, I'm not showcasing any sort of advanced examples in terms of ARM templates.
It's just the basics.
In my project, which I showcase in this course, we're going to go in depth on using Bicep to building
infrastructure.
Once this is done okay.
Once this is done, let's try this out.
Let's head on enter to deploy our VM.
And this time remember it's going to take the value of VM dev East US web zero two has a value of the
VM itself.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once done so I can see that it is a success.
So that's good.
If I click on refresh in all resources I can see the name of VM is has a parameter value.
Right.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter.

--- Lab - Parameters - Secure String ---

In this chapter, I want to showcase another parameter that we can add onto our JSON base file.
And this is going to be basically for the password that we pass in for our VM.
Currently not a good security practice wherein the password is hard coded within the template itself.
What we can do is we can pass in the password has a secure string.
For this.
Let me actually create a new folder within templates.
I'll choose to create a new folder for this.
I'll just name this as secure.
It's a new folder, and within this folder I'll create a new.
JSON base file.
I'll copy this entire snippet and place it here.
Let's close this.
So going back here I said this time around I want to make our Admin password has another parameter.
So I'll put a comma.
I'll put in admin password.
Sorry.
A new.
Parameter has admin password.
This time in terms of the type there is a type known has a secure string.
So now we can securely kind of pass in a value as the admin password.
I'll just put in the metadata here.
Scrolling down.
Let's pass in.
This has a parameter now.
So the admin password.
I'll save this.
Now how do we pass in this secure password within my secure folder here.
let me create a new file.
I'm going to name this as deployment dot PS1.
So I'm going to create a PowerShell script.
And in this PowerShell script let me paste in some code.
So what I'm doing here is in this PowerShell script.
Yes I do want to in the end run the command which I can do now via script.
So instead of now typing in the command via the terminal, I'm putting everything within a script.
So yes, I do have one arm template that's there, but now I'm combining the power of that ARM template
with PowerShell.
So I'm using the script to basically invoke my template using again new AZ Group resource group deployment
in terms of the template file.
Let me give in the proper name here.
So it is zero nine secure password dot JSON.
We can give our VM name and we can give the admin username here.
In terms of the password I'm using PowerShell to ask the user to give a secure password.
So now has.
The user will be asked to enter a string, and this will be taken as a secure string that can be passed
on to our template.
And just to make sure that this works as expected, let me just click on refresh for the entire page
because I want to delete again my OS level disk and my VM.
Because we need to recreate these artifacts again via our template.
Let's just wait till this is done.
Please make sure that it's dollar PWD.
Let me run my PowerShell script file.
I'll hit on enter.
Now within the prompt it is asking me for the admin password.
So let me just mention an admin password.
And this is being passed.
Now has a secure string onto our template.
So within deployment or of PS one.
The first statement is to read the password has a secure string.
The next statement is to do a new AZ resource Group deployment, wherein we are passing in a JSON based
file.
We are given the values of the VM name and the admin username, but we are passing in.
The password has a secure string.
Now please note that we can take in secure strings of passwords even from the Azure Keyword Service.
A few years ago this would be very important from AZ one four perspective.
But now since bicep, I told you is the new language of choice within our project, which I'm going
to showcase later on, I will show you how you can take in the password from an Azure Key Vault via
the use of bicep.
Right?
We can see the deployment is done and this should work as expected.
You can use the new username and password to log into the machine itself.
Let's mark an in onto this chapter.

--- Lab - Using a parameters file ---

And welcome back in this chapter, I just want to showcase quickly another way in which we can pass
parameters during the deployment, the values of the parameters during the deployment of the ARM template
itself.
Again, quickly, I'll just go back onto Azure, click on refresh.
Now I'm not seeing the OS level disk.
That's probably I refresh the entire page because I have to delete.
I want to recreate the VM again, but this time I want to showcase how we can take in the values from
a separate parameter base file.
So normally you might not want to pass in values via a script.
Or maybe you know, via the command line.
We can prepare a separate file altogether with the values of our parameters.
So I want to showcase that.
So I'll delete the OS level disk and the VM.
Okay.
Why this is being done.
Going on to VS code in templates I'm going to create a new folder.
Now I'll name this as parameters file and within this folder.
I'll create.
A new JSON file again our template.
This is going to be the same.
I'm just going to actually copy this.
So no changes onto our template as such.
Into the parameters we still have the VM name.
We still have the admin username.
And we have the admin password.
So this is not going to change.
So we're done with this.
Then within this folder I'll again create a new deployment dot ps1 file.
I'll take the previous code that we have wherein we are taking the password from the user has a secure
string.
This time I'll call in.
Ten parameters.
File dot JSON.
I'll save this Closing this.
So what's the change we're doing here?
In order to pass in our values within the parameters folder, I'm going to create a new JSON base file.
I'll name this as main dot parameters dot JSON.
Now within here.
I can put in our actual parameter values.
So I need the schema and the content version.
And all I need to mention here is the values for each parameter.
So for example in terms of the VM name.
This time instead of specifying what is a type, the description, etc., I mention the actual value.
What is the value that I want to pass in?
Similarly, for the admin username, I can do the same thing.
Let me go ahead and just copy it.
So for the admin username.
I'll just save this.
So it's kind of a modified version of your main arm template, wherein the only purpose of this JSON
file is to mention values for your parameters.
So for us, we just have a few parameters in place.
But when you have lengthy templates and you have a lot of parameter values that you want to pass in,
and maybe you want a separate set of parameters for a particular environment like dev, you want a set
of parameters for your separate environment, like staging.
Instead of passing in via a script or via the command prompt, you want to have kind of another parameters
base file in place.
You can have one, let's say dev dot parameters or JSON.
For the dev environment.
You can have test parameters, JSON for the test environment, so on and so forth and define your parameter
values accordingly.
Okay, now how do we pass in a parameter file.
So now I'm not passing in the individual VM name and the admin username.
No.
Now I want to pass in the Template parameter file.
So we can do it like this.
And then we put in what is the name of our parameter file.
So it's main dot parameters dot JSON.
Let's go ahead and save this.
So once the deletion is complete.
So now we're making sure that we use our parameters or JSON based file to provide values when it comes
onto the admin username and the VM name.
Okay.
Now I'll go on to the terminal.
Now currently I'm in the zero nine secure folder.
I'll need to go out of it.
I'll need to go on to my parameters file folder and then execute my PowerShell deployment file.
As always, it will prompt me for the VM admin password and then it should go on to completion.
This should not be a problem.
I said the only thing is that we are taking in values from the parameter space file.
I'll just mark it in onto this chapter.
We'll move on to the next.

--- Dependency across resources ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through the important concept of this is especially when it comes to
ARM templates, this also then Bicep.
But it's more in ARM and that is the dependency across resources.
In my main templates folder let me go ahead and create a new file.
I'll just close all of this.
Let me just create a new file in the templates folder.
So let's name this as 11 dependency dot JSON.
I'm going to take in one of our earlier code files, wherein we hard code all the values.
I just want to make it simple, just to make you all understand the dependency across resources.
Remember that this particular file is this ARM template is deploying all of our resources like the VM,
the NSG, the network, the so on and so forth.
Right.
We've already seen this.
Save this file.
Okay.
Going on to Azure.
Let me go ahead and click on refresh.
So I have all of these resources in place.
Let me go ahead and delete everything.
Let's imagine that we have a blank slate.
And then after this blank slate we execute or you know, we execute this um, ARM template to deploy
our resources.
So now this template will need to deploy our storage account, our virtual network, our public IP address
or NSG or network interface, so on and so forth.
You know, early on, what we've done is we had created each resource individually.
First we had them in Azure, and we know that if we have the definition of the template has whatever
is defined in Azure, it's not going to recreate the resource again.
If it's there, it's there.
If there's a configuration change, it will make that update accordingly.
But now we are in a scenario where in we don't have any resources, we have a clean slate.
And hence when we execute this particular ARM template it should go ahead and create our resources all
over again.
Now the problem is the dependency across resources.
See our VM needs a primary network interface.
So that means the Nic should already be in place right?
For the VM to exist for the network interface what is required.
The virtual network.
So the virtual network should also be in place beforehand.
What do you think is the execution?
You know, what do you think?
How does ARM actually execute?
How does Resource Manager actually execute the ARM template?
Would it execute the resources one by one.
So here the first resource is the storage account.
The next is the virtual network.
Then after that we have the public IP address.
Do you think that Azure Resource Manager based on this ARM template it will go order by order sequentially
in this file.
The answer is no.
It will take in this ARM template and in any order it will start deploying resources.
Now the problem is that it could be currently like deploying the network interface, the virtual network
and probably the VM.
Let's say that the VM is in the process of being deployed.
But the problem is that the network is still not in place.
The network interface is not in place.
Your ARM template will run into an error because I told you that in order for the VM to exist, for
the VM to be deployed, the virtual network should exist first and even the network interface.
So there is a dependency across resources.
By default, ARM will try its best to understand this dependency, but it will not always be the case
that everything will work as expected.
You cannot expect ARM to automatically or magically understand what is the dependency across all resources.
So now with this clean slate, if I run my template, this dependency dot JSON, If I go on to the terminal
and if I run this, it might work.
It might not work.
There is a probability that it could work, but this is only due to pure luck.
You know, it could be that okay, ARM has taken the virtual network to be deployed first, then the
network interface and then the VM.
But there are cases where it could run into an error.
And that's because it would probably tell you that there's a problem in creating the VM, because the
virtual network does not exist, or the network interface does not exist.
Hence, we need to explicitly tell ARM that there is a dependency across resources.
So if I go on to my template scrolling down.
So for the virtual network see each subnet is linked onto the NSG.
That means the energy G should exist beforehand.
So what we need to do is I'm going to find where this properties ends.
So it ends here.
I'll put a comma.
I'm going to put a depends on clause.
And this is going to be again an array.
We have to mention that this particular uh virtual network is dependent on this particular resource.
So what I can do is I can just copy this entire thing.
Wherein we're using, again, the resource ID to dynamically get the resource of the network security
group.
Now because we have this depends on clause in place.
IRM will not deploy the virtual network until the energy is in place.
So here we are explicitly mentioning the dependency across resources.
Similarly, if I scroll down now for the public IP address, it's fine.
It only depends on the resource group, so that's fine for the network interface.
It depends upon the subnet.
It depends upon the public IP address.
Again let me find where properties ends.
Put a comma I'll put in the depends on entire block here in this depends on remember it's an array of
values.
Now I'm saying that it is dependent upon the resource ID of our virtual network and also the resource
ID of our public IP address.
So we can have multiple dependencies in place.
I'm putting a comma across each dependency.
If I scroll down the energy is only dependent on the resource group.
So that's fine.
In terms of our virtual machine.
Our virtual machine is dependent upon our storage account and our network interface.
So always I'll find out where properties ends and put in the depends on clause.
Put in the comma.
Just making sure that we have the correct storage account name here.
So all I'm doing is I'm just making sure that the ARM template works as expected by specifying a dependency
across resources.
Let's go on to the terminal.
In terminal I'll come out and go back onto my templates folder.
Use the up arrow on my keyboard to find the earlier commands, and this time without any parameters.
I'll run 11 dependency dot JSON.
Let's see if this works as expected.
Now, once everything is done, if I click on refresh in Azure, I mean I should see all of my resources
in place.
I said the only thing is we're being a little bit extra careful.
We are making sure that everything does work as expected by maintaining a dependency across resources.
Okay, now that we're done, I want to move on to the next chapter.
For this, I will make sure that I delete again all of my resources because I want to showcase a creation
of the VM again so we can delete all of our resources.
Or better yet, what I'll do is instead of deleting all of my resources, I just want to showcase the
creation of the VM.
Again, just delete the OS level disk and the VM.
Let's do that.
Let's mark an end to this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Availability Set and VM ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use an ARM template to deploy a VM as part of an
availability set.
I've taken the code from our previous video.
That was the dependency one.
I put it in a new JSON base file.
Remember I told you that let's delete our VM and the disk.
Let's recreate the VM again.
But this time let's make the VM part of an availability set.
Now, first and foremost in resources I need to first create a new availability set.
Let me see if it's coming in here.
So not a set.
Okay.
If I choose availability.
So we get the snippet of code I'll need to put in comma here.
Right.
Because we're creating a new resource.
Let me go ahead and give it a name for our availability set.
Just put in the recent API version.
The resource group is fine I don't need any Need tags.
What we do need is in terms of the properties of the availability set.
We can mention the amount of update domains and the amount the number of fault domains.
Remember, that is something that we can define as part of an availability set.
Also mention a skew.
The skew is.
Basically there's only one type now that's aligned in terms of the set.
This is the definition of the availability set.
Now how do we make the VM part of the set itself?
I'll need to scroll down when it comes on to the creation of the VM.
So here after the network profile let's put a comma.
I can mention that this needs to be part of an availability set.
I need to give the id And we can use resource ID has function to get the ID of our availability set.
Now we see here I need to make sure that I add one more dependency, because our VM is now also dependent
upon the availability set.
So now Azure Resource Manager should first deploy our set and then make the VM part of the set itself.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let's run our new file.
And let's wait till this is complete.
Now once this is done going on to Azure.
Let me click on refresh.
I can see my availability set in place.
Just making sure that our VM is running right.
And it is.
So this chapter briefly want to go through how you can easily create an availability set by the use
of ARM templates and how you can make a VM part of that set.
Now I'm leaving my infrastructure as it is.
In the next chapter, I want to showcase how we can create a new data disk and attach it onto our VM.

--- Lab - Creating a data disk ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through how we can create a new data disk and attach it
onto an existing VM.
So for our virtual machine that we currently have, if I go on to the disk, we should only be having
the OS level disk in place.
Right.
We don't have the data disk.
I'll just paste in code quickly.
I want to showcase how we can first of all create a new data disk, which is quite simple.
I'm going to create a new resource block.
I'm just going to attach the code.
This is based on the service of Microsoft Compute Disk.
This is the API version.
This is the name I'm giving to that data disk in the same location standard ls.
And I can mention the size in gigs.
Then for the VM we can attach the data disk after the OS level.
This I need to go all the way down to the VM.
After the definition of the OS disk, I can put in the definition of the data disk.
So I'll put in comma here.
Put in this block of code.
This block of code mentions that we now want to take that data disk, attach it using this logical unit
number.
I'll need to mention what is the resource ID of our new disk.
And the disk in size and what we'll need to do in the end.
Again the dependency I have to make sure that this data disk is in place first before it can attach
it onto the VM.
So let me go ahead and save this.
Once done, let's go on to the terminal.
Let's run this and let's wait till this is complete.
Now once done.
Let me refresh the disk page of the VM.
And now I can see the new data disk has been attached.
It's of size 16 gigs.
Right.
Just a quick chapter on how we can use ARM to deploy a new data disk.
Again I'm going to leave my infrastructure as it is.
I want to have one more chapter now on how we deploy custom script extensions.

--- Introduction to Bicep ---

Now, in this section, I want to go through how we can build infrastructure on Azure using Bicep.
We have looked at creating something known as Azure Resource Manager templates.
In the beginning we only had ARM has a way when it came to building infrastructure as code.
Yes, we do have Terraform that's available from another vendor but from Microsoft they had ARM.
Then later on they introduced bicep.
Ultimately we you know when you create something known as Bicep file when it comes onto infrastructure
as code.
In the end again the request for building infrastructure goes through Azure Resource Manager Bicep is
Microsoft kind of domain specific language that makes writing templates, you know, much more simpler,
cleaner.
We're going to see even um, you know, in this section we'll go through basics.
When it comes on to building infrastructure.
We're going to see it's much more simpler than building ARM templates in a project where in we're going
to go into depth into building Bicep, you know, base infrastructure.
You're going to see a lot of flexibility as well.
Bicep is, again, you declare the state that you want in terms of code.
It's human readable in nature.
Here the key idea is you build bicep based files.
They are compiled in the end on arm JSON and then submitted onto Azure Resource Manager.
Now in order to get started with Bicep, we can use Visual Studio Code.
If I go on to the install Bicep tools section we have many options in place.
We can use Visual Studio Code and the Bicep extension.
So if you scroll down you can see that in VS code we have to install the bicep extension.
And that's it.
We can get started working with bicep based files.
So let's go ahead and do that.
What I've done in VS code I've just opened up a brand new blank folder on my local machine on my laptop.
The folder name is bicep.
Let me go to extensions and search for bicep as an extension and click on install.
So this is the one that's supported by Microsoft and that's it.
We should be able to now, you know, get support into building bicep based files for building our infrastructure
and running those files accordingly.
Let's mark an end onto this quick chapter.
Let's move on to the subsequent chapters wherein we'll start building our infrastructure.

--- Lab - Deploying a resource group ---

Now again, let's start simple.
Let's create our first bicep base file and target that to create a resource group within our subscription.
Currently, within my Azure account, I'm logged in onto one of my Azure accounts.
You can use any Azure account that you have.
Let me go on to resource groups.
So currently I do have one in place.
Let me delete this.
I currently don't have any resources in place.
And let's recreate this resource group via the use of Bicep.
So within VSCode within my folder let's create a new file.
I'll name this as RG to create a resource group and dot bicep.
So that's the extension we can give onto our files.
And we can see this kind of unique symbol that indicates that yes we are working with a Bicep file.
Now how do we start.
We can simply define a resource.
Now kind of similar to on ARM templates, but in ARM templates we had to define everything within JSON.
Within JSON, we had to, you know, we had our variables empty section.
We had a parameters empty section.
It was optional.
But we had everything has a particular structure within JSON here.
If you just want to define a resource as part of your Azure subscription, you say yes, you want to
create a resource.
You give a symbolic name that you can use within your bicep base file like org, just to simplify a
resource group.
What is the type of resource that you want to create?
So I want to create based on resource groups.
And then we can give the API version.
Equal to.
And now we define.
In this Block the details about the resource group itself.
I can give the name that I want to specify.
Let's say the name I specify is again RG AZ 104 dev East US.
And what is the location?
East us.
So as you can see it's quite simple.
It's not a complicated.
It's kind of in a human readable format wherein we are defining a resource.
We are mentioning what is a type, what is the API version, what is the name and what is a location?
On top of this, I can mention something known as a target scope.
This tells bicep where do you want the deployment to run?
Valid scopes are the resource group, the management group, the subscription and the tenant.
Since we are creating a resource group, I'll say let's put in the target scope has the subscription
and that's it.
I can click on save.
Unsafe.
Since we have installed the Bicep extension in VS code, I can right click.
And choose the option of deploy bicep file.
When we do this, it's saying okay, we need to sign in onto our Microsoft account.
Then we click on allow.
Let me choose my admin username and saying please enter a name for the deployment.
So I'll leave the name hazardous.
I'll just hit enter on my keyboard.
It's asked me to select my subscription.
I'll select it accordingly.
It's saying our location.
I'll select East US.
Do we have any sort of parameter file at the moment?
No, I'll just choose none.
And now it should start the deployment of the resource group onto our subscription.
So going back here onto resource groups so we don't have anything in place.
So currently we don't have that group in place.
The deployment has succeeded.
Let's verify going back here clicking on refresh.
This takes some time.
Let me refresh the entire page.
And we have it in place.
So you've seen it's quite simple.
Again the concept is quite similar.
Also on arm where in okay we are defining a resource.
We are giving a symbolic name.
We are mentioning the type, the API version and the various properties of the resource itself.
But we're not meshing anything within properties within, you know, nested blocks and all trying to
make it very simple.
Bicep is trying to make everything very simple in terms of deploying resources, right.
Let's mark it in on this chapter where we start.
Very simple.
Let's move on to actually now, you know, creating a resource.
Let's look at creating an Azure storage account.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Account ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can deploy an Azure storage account via the use of Bicep.
So kind of the similar format in how we work with ARM templates, wherein we're going step by step in
building resources on Azure.
When it came to ARM this time we'll do it via bicep.
In the last chapter I'd shown you how we can right click and deploy the bicep base file, but we can
also use Azure PowerShell and Azure CLI to deploy our Bicep base files in order to go ahead and do this.
If you go onto the Microsoft documentation, you will see that the in terms of deploying Bicep base
files using Azure PowerShell.
Let me click on this.
What we will need is obviously Azure PowerShell modules that we've already installed.
We also have to install the bicep CLI.
Let me click on this link where we can install the tools.
Let me select windows.
Since I'm on a windows based machine and it's giving us these options to install the bicep CLI.
Let me click on the latest windows Installer.
It should be as simple and straightforward installation.
But before that, what I want to do is let me close VSCode.
We'll reopen this again after the installation of bicep.
I'll open the installer file as it should be as simple and straightforward installation.
I'll accept the license agreement.
Click on next and then click on install.
Once done, I click on finish.
Let me open VSCode again.
Just open up my bicep folder on my local machine.
Then in terms of the terminals, let me just make sure that I delete all of my terminals and let's create
a new one just to make sure that we have that bicep installation take effect.
So I'll create a new terminal.
All I want is to make sure let me do bicep and see the version.
Right.
So now we know that we have bicep in place.
I said, let's use this approach wherein we use Azure PowerShell modules to execute our Bicep file.
Okay, now let's go on to building a new file.
So I'll name this as zero two storage dot bicep.
So let's go ahead and define now our resource.
Give it a symbolic name.
Again what is the resource type.
So I'll put as Microsoft Storage slash storage accounts and give the latest API version.
We have to do n equals two and opening and closing curly brackets.
And then we can define the properties of the storage account or the resource as such.
I can give a name.
So I'll just give a random name for the storage account.
Then the location as East us.
Then what is this skew.
So this is going to be standard.
LZ.
You can see that Visual Studio Code is giving us a lot of intellisense to kind of complete our code,
which is good.
And what is the kind of storage account that I want to create.
So we can create a file storage account.
I'll choose storage v2 to create a general purpose V2 storage account.
And again quite simple.
It's all done.
In this terminal let me do a connect easy account with my tenant and the device code, just to make
sure that I log in.
Now what I'll do is I'll make sure to save the bicep base file.
And how do we execute the file?
The same way that we had seen in ARM templates I'm using new Azure Resource Group deployment, specifying
the name of my resource group and the template file.
We've already seen this.
It's the same thing.
The only difference is that now because it's a bicep based file, the bicep CLI is kicking in and it's
deploying the file.
Deploying the bicep code.
Here we don't need to kind of mention, you know when we do a right click and deploy, the bicep file
is asking us for the name of the deployment, the subscription, etc. here.
It's quite simple.
Using PowerShell we can target a particular resource group within our Azure subscription itself.
Right?
We can see that it has succeeded.
We can go ahead and verify going onto Azure on all resources.
Just clicking on refresh.
It does take some time, but I can see now my storage account in place where this marks the end of this
chapter.
But don't forget that you can always refer to the Microsoft documentation.
Remember early on you could refer onto the ARM template, but we can switch over on to bicep and we
can see how do we define the resource when it comes onto Azure Storage.

--- Lab - Multiple copies of a resource ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can create multiple copies of a resource.
We have seen this even with ARM templates.
We can achieve this with Bicep as well.
Let me create a new file here.
So I'll name this as storage dot bicep.
Let me copy the code that we have here.
So how do we now change our code in such a way that we can create multiple copies of a resource?
So here, now after the equal sign.
I want to put in the square brackets.
I want to start here and end here.
This now signifies that we want to create an array of resources.
That means we want to create multiple resources.
I can then put in something known as a for loop.
Normally in programming languages we have for loops that you can it's an iterative loop right.
So for a range of values you can start creating resources.
I can give an intermediate variable name like I and say that in the range of values.
So range is kind of a function where in we have a start index and a count.
I'll say that for a range of 0 to 3.
Let's go ahead and create, you know, multiple copies of the storage account service.
Quite simple.
So again we put the starting and ending square brackets to signify that we want to create now an array
multiple resources.
How do we, uh, you know, have kind of a recursive loop.
I said normally in programming languages you can have one example is the for loop.
So for each value in the range of 0 to 3 go ahead and execute this block of code.
Go ahead and create multiple instances of this particular resource.
Now obviously we have that same problem that we had earlier on wherein.
In during multiple creation times.
Write the second iteration.
It's going to fail because of the name of the storage account.
It needs to be unique.
Hence, we need some sort of way to indicate that we need to change the name.
In ARM templates, we were using the concatenation operator, wherein we would take something known
as a copy index function, and then have it as a prelude onto the name of the storage account.
We can do a similar thing here.
Let me put the dollar sign.
And within curly braces I what does this mean.
You have for each iteration right in the range of 0 to 3, I will take on at each iteration a value
in this range.
When it does that, we can use string interpolation to make sure that the value of I during each iteration
is evaluated as an addition to the name of the storage account.
I mean, just to see how this works, let's go ahead and just save this.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let me run this.
Let's clear the screen.
So let me go ahead and run this bicep base file.
Let's look at the output and then try to understand the code again.
Now once the deployment is complete let's go onto Azure.
Let's click on refresh and see what we have.
So we have three storage accounts.
This is from the range of 0 to 3 in the range of 0 to 3.
It's a count of three with a starting index of zero.
So going back onto our code we are looking at a range from 0 to 3.
This is known as the static index and this is a count.
So we have a count of three and a starting index of zero.
So one and two.
During the first iteration of the for loop you're in terms of the name I will get a valid has a value
of zero.
In the second iteration I will become a value of one.
And in the third iteration a value of two.
Again this is known as string interpolation, where in we can kind of take the value of the variable
as an expression here, and then Bicep will evaluate that kind of expression accordingly.
We are seeing that it's just so simple to work with Bicep in terms of building infrastructure.
We're done with this chapter.
What I'll do is, uh, let me go ahead and delete all of my resources, basically my storage account.
So I'll select all of them.
We don't require them anymore.
Let me hit delete and let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual network ---

Now we're looking at ARM templates.
You know, I've taken the approach wherein when it came on to the deployment of an Azure VM, I first
went through the deployment of a virtual network, a public IP address, and so on and so forth.
Well, I'll take the same approach here as well.
I want to go on to the creation of a VM via the use of Bicep.
But first and foremost let's see how we can deploy a virtual network.
I've created a new Bicep base file and it should be very simple.
We want to create a resource.
I'll just give it a name.
Now what is a resource.
Let me see if I can filter on virtual networks.
So I'm going to choose Microsoft Network virtual networks whatever is the recent API version equal to.
Now let's start giving the details.
First is the name.
What name do I want to give for the virtual network?
Then next is the location.
Now here we have properties because we have to specify the address space.
So this is quite similar.
We have the address space.
And then within the address space we have the address prefix.
This address Prefix is an array, and in the array we mention what is the address prefix of our virtual
network.
Then next we have our subnets.
So within the properties itself after the address space we can define our subnets.
This is again an array for each subnet not the id I have to give the name.
So I'll mention the name.
And each subnet has its own properties.
Again for the properties we have the address prefix that we put in for the first subnet.
And let's do the same thing I want to define another subnet as well.
Now please note that there is no comma now after each block.
So let's say this is for a database subnet.
Just change the address prefix and we are done.
Let me save this.
Let's go on to the terminal again.
Let's run this file.
Right.
This should be done.
Now what I'll do is let's mark an end of this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Public IP address ---

Now, in the last chapter, we had gone through a deployment of an Azure Virtual Network.
If I click on refresh in all resources, I can see my network in place.
In this chapter, I want to go through the deployment of a public IP address.
As always, I create a new Bicep base file.
I need to create a resource based on.
So I'll give a symbolic name.
Search for public IP address.
As part of Microsoft Network, look at the recent version.
Let's go with the name.
So I'll give the name of the public IP address.
Here in terms of the location.
What we need to do with in ARM templates I can use the inbuilt function to actually get the location
of the resource group.
So something that we can do.
And I can mention the SKU.
The name is standard.
The standard SKU.
Then apart from that you have the properties in which we can mention what is the allocation method.
And that is going to be static.
So a lot of help are getting from VS code.
You can go ahead and save this.
Go on to the terminal.
And by the way you can format your bicep files.
In the end it's kind of like JSON.
So you can go ahead and just format it line by line.
This should also go through I don't think we should have a problem in.
It's already done.
Going on to Azure right I can see my public IP address in place.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Network Interface ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, let's see how we can define a network interface using Bicep.
I'll just create a new file.
Now at this point you might be thinking should I use ARM or should I use bicep?
Obviously, from an ease of use, Bicep is quite simple to understand.
Not much complication in terms of defining the structure.
When you compare with ARM in a project that we'll see later on, you will understand that there's a
lot more flexibility when it comes to defining infrastructure.
In this section, I'm keeping everything plain and simple.
What we're done in terms of ARM deploying resources.
I'm doing the same thing here, but there's a lot more that you can do in terms of flexibility.
And I said I will cover that in our project.
Checked.
Okay, I said, now let's go through building a network interface by the use of Bicep.
Now this is going to be a little bit interesting.
If I go on to resource, just give a name I want to create a network interface.
So Microsoft network slash network interfaces.
Versus obviously the name.
So let me give a name for the network interface.
Then we have the location.
I'll use the resource group dot location.
Then we have the properties in the properties we have.
It has an object.
And IP configurations nothing that different within IP configurations.
This is.
We have the name that we can give.
So let me put in the name that I want to give to my IP configuration, similar to what you had seen
at ARM templates.
Must be defined.
Within the curly brackets.
Okay, we have the name.
Then we have the properties under the IP configuration itself.
In the private IP allocation method I'll put this as dynamic.
Now here we need to mention okay this network interface is going to be part of which subnet.
And if you want to associate any public IP address.
Now for both of these if we look at the public IP address we have to mention the ID of the public IP
address.
And here also we need to mention the ID of the subnet.
How do we get the ID of the subnet and the public IP address?
If you remember in ARM templates, we used to use a kind of resource ID function that would take in
the resource type and the resource name.
And then it would formulate the resource ID that you could put in here.
How do we implement the same logic in Bicep.
But in Bicep we have kind of a different way in a one more way in which we can get the it's not only
the ID that we can get, we can get the entire existing resource itself.
So we can get properties of an existing resource in Azure.
How do we do this?
I'll define another resource block.
I'll just give a symbolic name.
This is for the public IP address.
So Microsoft dot network public IP address the recent version equal to.
42.
Let me give the name so the name of our existing public IP address.
Now here, just to make sure that Bicep does not create a new one, it only refers to an existing one.
I just need to put in the clause of existing.
You will see that Bicep is kind of human readable in nature, wherein all we're doing right now is we're
saying let's refer on to an existing resource in Azure.
All we have to do is we have to again create a resource block, give in the type of resource along with
the API version and just give the name.
That's it.
And then how do we refer it here.
The symbolic name that we've given pip dot.
And now you will see that you can access not only the resource ID of the existing resource.
It's everything all of the properties of the resource itself.
So we're not bounded for just the resource ID itself, but we do need just the ID so I can take in the
ID so the dot operator and the property.
That's it.
We are done.
We've now got the ID of the public IP address of the subnet.
We can do the same thing.
The only difference is we need to first create a resource block to get the virtual network.
That's the first thing.
Then I need to add one more resource block for just the subnet.
And here I say that the parent resource is the virtual network here.
Now I can take in I can put in what is a symbolic name that subnet.
So you can give more meaningful symbolic names in your code.
I'll put in subnet.id and we're done.
I'll click on save.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let's run this.
So this is zero six.
And there should not be a problem.
Now, in case if you're getting this error, the SSL connection could not be established.
This is just a loss of connection onto your Azure account.
This kill this terminal.
Create a new terminal.
Sometimes you lose connection onto your Azure account and just establish the connection again.
So this could happen for you.
I mean for me it happens from time to time.
Once done, let's try this again.
So we want to execute our network interface dot bicep.
And this should go through.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Network Security Groups ---

We have come back.
The deployment is complete from our previous deployment, so let's just confirm going on all resources.
I can see my network interface in place.
Just need to make sure that it is linked onto my public IP address.
So I can see that it's got the private IP address for my subnet.
And yes, it is linked onto the public IP address.
So everything has worked as expected.
Let's move on to our next Bicep base file.
And this is for creating a network security group.
Again quite simple resource.
Give a symbolic name.
We need to look at network security groups as part of Microsoft Network.
I'll choose the latest API version I need to give the name.
What I'll do is I won't give the name right now.
I'll just put in the location.
Let's do one thing.
Uh, similar to what we'd seen with ARM templates, I'm going to make use of variables, so we can make
use of variables and parameters within Bicep as well.
Let me define variables something similar to what we had seen with ARM templates.
So I can use the var keyword in bicep.
I can give the name for the variable and I can give the value.
The way that we refer to the variable is just so simple.
I'll just give an energy name.
That's it.
So I don't put in you know trying.
So I don't need to put in variables and then put in the variable name.
No that's it.
Just the name of the variable.
And we can refer onto it.
Next in under properties.
Now we can define the various security rules.
That's going to be an array.
And we can define each rule.
Let me put in the code because there's quite a lot.
Remember we have to put in the protocol the source the destination so on and so forth.
Let me paste in two rules.
One is for.
So I've placed in two rules.
I've also just change the variable name before it was for allowing remote desktop connections.
But I said let's say that you are hosting an ubuntu server on a virtual machine, and we want to allow
traffic on port 22 for Secure Shell.
So I've just changed the variable names and the values accordingly.
And with ARM templates we have in terms of two rules.
One is for allowing secure shell for admin access where we can put the source port range, the destination,
the address prefix, what is the access and the priority.
It's kind of similar to what you'd seen earlier on.
Let me go ahead and save this.
Going on to the terminal.
Let's go ahead and run this.
And we should not have a problem here as well.
So what I'll do is, as always, let's mark an end onto this chapter.
Let's come back once the deployment is complete.

--- Lab - Associate NSG with subnet ---

I've come back as always.
The deployment is complete.
If I go on all resources and click on refresh, I should see my network security group in place.
That should not be a problem.
If I go on to my inbound rules, I can see my rules in place.
Now the only thing again has with ARM.
We had not attached it onto any network interface or any subnets.
How are we going to manage this now?
Let's take the scenario again that we want to attach this NSG onto subnets within a virtual network.
Instead of modifying our existing VNet bicep file, I can go ahead and create a new Bicep file here.
Let me go ahead and close this and let's create a new one.
I'll name this as attach NSG dot bicep.
Again we need to attach the NSG onto each subnet.
Hence we can define, first of all, a resource of the subnet.
Let me just give a name of subnet.
I'll just give a name of web subnet.
Let me search for subnets.
Under virtual networks.
Take in the current API version and equal to.
We are trying to refer on to our existing subnet.
But at the same time what we're doing is we are making a configuration change.
We want to associate the energy onto the subnet.
Hence here I am not marking it as existing because we are still making a change.
So we're defining a new resource block based on subnets.
Yes.
For us it is an existing subnet.
But we won't put as Whereas existing because we want to make a change onto the resource, we want to
refer onto it and still make a change.
So no existing here.
I'll need to give the name.
And also mention the properties of the subnet as well.
But I need to give a reference onto our existing network security group.
And how can we do this.
So resource NSG security groups.
So Microsoft network the API version existing.
So now we're making a reference to the existing version.
And I'll give the name.
And now here under the properties after the address prefix we can put in a reference onto a network
security group where in we mentioned the ID and this will be the NSG ID.
I can do this for even our other subnet as well.
So let me copy this entire resource block.
Let me name this as the database subnet.
And the name was DB.
This was the address prefix and attaching it onto the same NSG.
Now we're getting a red squiggly line here.
It's saying the number of name segments must match the number of segments in the resource type.
We have to mention what virtual network the subnet belongs to.
Now, since this subnet belongs to an existing virtual network, I'm going to define another resource
block of the virtual network.
So Microsoft Network the recent version Information existing.
Let me give the name of our existing virtual network.
And now here for the subnet, I can mention that this subnet is part of the parent virtual network.
So we are kind of making an inherent reference here to an existing resource.
And I said here we are also making a change onto our subnet.
I'll click on save.
Let's go on to the terminal.
Let's run this.
And let's wait till this is complete.
So a little bit different in this particular lesson on how we are changing, you know making a config
change or an existing resource.
Now once done.
If I go on to the network interfaces and then back onto the subnets, this is in the NSG.
Now I can see that they are linked accordingly.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Creating an Azure virtual machine ---

Now the chapter.
Let's see how do we build a VM using bicep?
So let me create a new file.
We'll make use of the existing resources that we have.
So we have an existing network interface via the NSG.
We have the public IP address and we have the virtual network.
Going on to bicep.
Let me just hide this in terms of what we need.
Has existing resources.
We need the network interface that will be attached onto the virtual machine.
And we need the storage account that can be used for holding boot diagnostics data.
Hence let's do that.
First let me define getting a handle onto the existing resources.
So first is the network interface.
I'll I'd say that it is existing.
I'll just put in the name.
That is one thing.
The next thing is our existing storage account.
Is going on to Azure just to make sure.
Okay.
I thought we had the existing storage account.
I forgot that we deleted the storage account.
And so let's go ahead and actually recreate it.
Sorry.
My mistake.
I thought that we had kept it, but obviously we had removed it.
Let me create a new resource for the definition of the storage account.
Right.
That's done.
Let's now create a new resource for the virtual machine.
So I need to go on to virtual machines.
Microsoft Dot compute is a little bit difficult to get.
Let me put in the entire.
Resource name and the API version here, because there are a lot of resource types under compute.
That's why sometimes it's difficult to get.
Okay.
Now I'm going to paste in code because there's a lot that actually goes into again deploying a VM.
So first I'm giving a name the location.
Then we start with the properties again under the properties.
The first thing is the hardware profile.
Again similar to what we had seen with ARM templates.
We are mentioning a size for the virtual machine.
Then we have the OS profile in which we give what is the computer name, the admin username, the admin
password.
Again, I'm hardcoding it here for now.
I'm just saying that, uh, disable password authentication onto false.
That means we want to use a username and a password to log onto the machine.
Then I have the storage profile.
After the OS profile under the storage profile, we again have the image reference.
The image reference is what is the publisher?
What is the offer?
What is SKU?
What is the version?
This dictates onto what VM?
Sorry, what template do we want to use from the Azure Marketplace for building our virtual machine?
And the OS disk details.
So I'm giving a name.
It's a managed disk based on standard LS.
Then the storage profile.
The storage profile is complete.
The next thing is the network profile.
In the network profile I need to give details of the network interfaces.
This is an array.
We give the ID which we already have.
Right.
We have the reference onto our existing Nic based resource.
Then I'll scroll down.
We now to give our diagnostic profile in which we give the details of boot diagnostics.
This is enabled.
And let's put this on the next line.
We have to give the storage URI.
Now for the storage URI I'm going to create a new variable here on top the something known as the blob
endpoint.
We can get the blob endpoint from the existing resource.
Now even when you're creating a new resource in Azure in Bicep, you have access to all of the properties
of the resource itself.
I said in ARM, if you want it to get the endpoint of Blob service, you would need to kind of formulate
that URL.
But in Bicep for each resource block right here, the resource block, we've given a symbolic name of
essay.
So what this will do is yes, this will deploy a storage account on Azure.
But at the same time within your bicep base file okay.
It gives you access to each property of the storage account of the resource.
So we can go on to its properties its primary endpoints dot blob.
So using the dot notation you can go on to each and every property of a resource.
So this makes it even more powerful.
So no need of trying to build this exhaustive list of URIs or URLs using functions using expressions.
Everything is available for you within Bicep.
Let me take this scroll down and place it here.
With this done, let's try this out.
Let me save this.
Let's go on to the terminal and let's run this.
It's giving us a few warnings here saying that the admin username and the password, it should not be
literal values in your code.
Understood.
For now, let it be.
Let's see if it does deploy the virtual machine as expected.
Once done, let's verify going on to Azure.
I'll click on refresh so I can see my VM in place.
If I click the refresh on the Azure portal we can see the OS disk as well.
So again it's quite simple.
Not that complicated in terms of handling bicep.
Let's mark it in on this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Using parameters ---

Right now.
In this chapter, I want to showcase how we can build a VM.
But this time when we pass in the VM name and the admin username and the password, we want to make
use of parameters.
So we had seen parameters when it came onto ARM templates.
Similarly for Bicep we can pass in information or pass in values at the time of deploying the Bicep
base file via the use of parameters.
So for this, since I want to recreate the VM here in Azure, let me just delete the OS level disk and
the virtual machine.
I'll delete these two resources.
I've gone ahead and create a new Bicep based file.
Let me copy in the information that I have.
From our previous program our VM bicep base file.
And it's at parameters now.
To add parameters very simple.
You can just use the param keyword.
Give a name for the parameter and its type.
We can also add a description on top.
Similarly, let me create one for the admin username.
Give its description.
And one for the password.
Now, since the password needs to be secure in nature, we can add one more feature here for parameter
saying it should be secure in nature.
That's it.
Add the secure and this will ensure that when it comes on to the parameter, it's made a secure parameter.
Scrolling down.
When it comes on to the name Of the VM, I can just put in VM name.
Same for the company name.
So VM name for the admin user admin user name the parameter and admin password.
Very simple.
Going on to the terminal.
Let's go ahead and run.
This bicep base file.
And when we do this it should prompt us for the VM name.
So let me just give a name for the virtual machine.
What should be the admin username.
And the password which will be a secure string.
And then it should go ahead with the deployment of the virtual machine.
So again very simple on how we can pass in values at runtime when deploying the Bicep base file via
the use of parameters.
Let's go ahead and mark an in on this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Availability Sets ---

Word have come back.
The deployment is complete and we should be having our virtual machine in place.
Let me go and just refresh the entire page.
Actually, I want to go ahead and delete the OS level disk again and the VM because now I want to showcase
again a very simple example on a Bicep file that can deploy an availability set and make a virtual machine
part of that same set.
I'll delete the OS level disk and the VM.
In VS code.
Gone ahead and create a new file here bicep base file.
Let me copy the contents I have from VM dot bicep.
To keep it simple, I don't have any parameters for this one.
And first and foremost let's create a new resource based on the availability set.
I'll just give a simple name and let's search for availability sets.
So I want to go to Microsoft Dot compute a baby sets.
I need to give the name and the location.
Then we have the skew.
The skew should be.
Having a name of just aligned.
Then under the properties we have the number of fault domains that we can mention.
So let's say we have two fault domains as part of the available set and the number of update domains.
So let's say five.
This helps us to define the availability set.
And then finally if we want to make a VM part of the set itself.
So again quite simple going on to the VM.
Under the properties of the VM itself we can mention the availability set.
Just mention the id and how do we get it.
So from a v set.id the symbolic name that we have given here.
I can save this.
Go on to the terminal.
I'll just clear the screen.
Let's run this.
And this should go to completion.
What I'll do is I'll mark an in onto this chapter and let's move on to the next.

--- Lab - Adding data disks ---

Now I've come back.
The deployment task for our previous video, in terms of building a VM as part of an availability set
is done.
If I refresh the entire page, I should have my disk and my virtual machine in place, and this VM should
be part of an availability set.
This is also in place.
In this chapter, let's see how we can create a new data disk and assign it onto the VM.
For this I have gone ahead and create a new file with the same contents has our ability set.
I want to create now a resource based on a new data disk.
Am I getting data disk here?
So it's not coming up.
Let me put it in the exact resource name and the API version.
Let me give a name and the location for the data disk.
Then I can put in the SKU.
You can keep this as standard LRS.
Then the properties of the disk.
First is the creation data.
So this would be based on the create option of just empty.
So we're trying to create an empty data disk.
And then what is the disk size.
First create a disk disk of size 16 gigs.
We now need to attach our data disk onto the Azure VM.
This should come under.
So we have the OS level disk here.
It should come under the storage profile.
I should be able to add data disks which is an array in the create option.
I will have it as attach.
So we need to attach our existing disk logical unit number of zero.
Then I put in disk.
And put in the ID of our data disk.
Now one question that can come up from students that I have not covered so far is the dependency of
resources.
So in ARM I told you that there is no clear order in creation of resources, and it's kind of the same
thing here when it comes on to bicep.
But in bicep, when you make a reference normally to an existing resource.
So for example here under Data disk for the Azure VM, we are saying that in terms of the managed disk
we need the ID of our data disk.
So Bicep understands that in order to attach this disk in order to get the ID, it will first go on
to the logical resource here of data Disk.
It will first execute this block to make sure it first has the resource in place.
And then it will attach it onto the VM.
So it's kind of an implicit.
So in most cases Bicep can implicitly understand the dependency across resources.
And you don't need to explicitly mentioned that dependency.
It's only in certain circumstances where there is no implicit way for Bicep to understand the dependency.
That's when you add that dependency clause, which you can do in Bicep as well.
But in most cases, if you compare it with ARM, Bicep does has that capability wherein it can understand
it can implicitly understand the dependency across resources during deployment.
Okay.
Once this is done, let's go on to the terminal and let's run this program bicep base file.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Once done going onto Azure.
Let's go on to our virtual machine.
And for the VM let's go on to the disk.
And for the disk we can see our data disk in place.
Right.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Custom Script Extensions ---

Now in this chapter.
I quickly want to go through how we can apply custom script extensions for an Azure VM.
Why the use of Bicep?
We have seen this even via the use of ARM based templates.
It's quite simple.
What I've gone and done is for our existing Azure storage account, I've gone ahead and create a scripts
container because this is a new storage account within the scripts container I have uploaded that setup
nginx base file.
That script base file which we'd seen earlier on.
I just now need to apply custom script extensions for our Azure VM.
I've just gone ahead and create a new custom script dot bicep base file in which I have the previous
definition based on our data disk.
What I'll just do is let me just add quickly the resource block for adding the custom script extension,
so I can let me scroll all the way down and let me add that resource block.
This resource block is based on virtual machine extensions.
I'm giving a name.
What is the parent.
So what is the dependent?
Is this VM based resource which we can mention Part of all resource group location.
Under the properties, we have to mention the location of that script base file.
Similar to ARM, what I'll need to do is I'll need to go onto the blob, generate a shared access signature.
So I'll say to generate the SaaS token and the URL, I'll take the blob SaaS URL, copy it onto the
clipboard.
Place it here.
Let's save the file.
Go on to the terminal.
And let's go ahead and run this bicep base file.
And let's wait till this is complete.
Now once this is done going on to our VM.
Let me take the public IP address onto a new browser tab.
Let's browse for the public IP address.
Continue on to the site and we can see nginx running has a web server.
Quite simple.
In the chapter one showcase how we can apply custom script extensions.

--- Lab - Azure Web App ---

Welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can create an Azure Web app while use of a Bicep based
file.
Currently, I have my resources in place in Azure right based on our previous labs.
Let me go ahead and delete all of them.
Just to have a clean slate for the deployment of Azure Web app.
Again, it's quite simple to what we have seen when came onto ARM based templates.
We need two resources.
One is for the app Service plan and the other one is for the Azure Web app itself.
So let's create one for the plan.
This would be based on server farms.
So Microsoft web app server farms.
This provides the basis of the App Service plan.
Let me provide a name And for the location, I'm going to mark this as central US.
And we know why, because of limitations that I have in publishing this Azure Web app onto East US.
Again, I want to create an Azure Web app that will have the ability to host a PHP based application.
And as we know from before, PHP is only supported on a Linux OS and I need to create an app service
plan based on Linux.
So I'll put in the kind as Linux.
Then we'll put in the SKU.
For the name, it's going to be the free app service plan.
And we can put a capacity of just one.
And then under the properties we can give what should be the name of the App Service plan.
Is something that's required.
So I'll just put this here.
And again that reserved property that needs to be marked as true just to ensure that it creates an app
service plan based on Linux.
Our next resource is the Azure Web app itself.
So this actually comes under sites Microsoft web sites.
Let me give the name.
For the web app and the location as central US.
Just change the name here.
In the kind we need to put as app comma Linux.
Here.
Also, we need the properties under the properties.
We need the name again.
The link it on to our plan.
So it will be the plan.id.
And just to make sure that we have it based on PHP, we add a site config all very similar to what we'd
seen with ARM based templates.
I'll go ahead and save this.
Going on to the terminal, let's run our new bicep base file and let's wait till this is complete.
Hopefully here okay.
We just have the data disk in place.
It should go ahead and hopefully also get removed.
But if not we can go and remove the disk accordingly.
Let's wait for our.
New Bicep file with the Azure Web app.
Now with this I'm going to mark the end of this particular section.
I said in this section we were going very simple in terms of understanding the basics of Bicep and how
do we deploy infrastructure.
As I mentioned earlier on, I have a full fledged project in which we will review the concepts, the
important concepts that we have learned so far.
At the same time, I want to go into depth into building infrastructure using Bicep.
There we're going to split our bicep based code into various modules.
We're going to see how we make them reusable in nature.
I can see that this is done.
Let's confirm.
I can see my web app and app service plan in place.
And this should be based on Linux.
The app service plan and the web app should be based on PHP.
As I said, this marks the end of this particular section.
I'm going to go ahead and delete my resources accordingly.

--- Code resources for this section ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Project Overview ---

Hi and welcome all to this Azure Infrastructure project in which we're going to look at in detail how
do we build infrastructure on Azure with the help of Bicep.
So let's imagine that this project is based on a company.
Let's imagine that this company has a background and their mission.
The company aims to enhance learning by providing an accessible online platform for their users as part
of their current infrastructure.
Their existing setup includes a blend of on premises and cloud solutions, but they need significant
updates to support future growth as part of their operational needs.
So they have a small operation team that needs to manage workloads efficiently.
They want to increase scalability to meet the growing demands.
So in terms of the business goals for this Azure infrastructure project, they want to modernize their
infrastructure by leveraging Azure capabilities.
They want to make use of infrastructure as code for consistent deployments across environments.
They want to ensure secure remote access to the help of Bastion and Key Vault integrations.
They want to simplify operational processes to enhance team efficiency and productivity.
They want to gain visibility into costs and optimize resource management.
The current challenges are, you know, they currently manage infrastructure bills in a manual approach
that leads to time consuming processes.
They want to address environmental drifts that results in inconsistencies.
They have limited network security.
So they want to address all of these current challenges.
So what they want to address as part of this project is they want to make use of Bicep when it comes
on to building resources such as virtual networks.
There are subnets, there energies, virtual machines, etc. they want to use bastion when it comes
on to securing access and configuring internal load balancers.
Virtual network peering.
They want to make use of the best practices for services.
They want to make use of private endpoints for secure connections.
Implement private DNS.
Some of the advantages they're trying to gain when it comes onto using Bicep are.
So Bicep has that syntax that simplifies Azure Resource management.
It allows teams to define infrastructure in a much more better approach, enhancing clarity and maintainability
for deployments.
It enhances modular design.
It enables developers to create reusable components and is ideal for version control.
So what are we going to do?
You know, in this particular project, in the next chapter, I will show you a design in terms of infrastructure,
step by step on what we're going to implement when it comes onto using Bicep.
But in a nutshell, we want to deploy virtual networks and subnets.
We want to deploy multiple virtual machines within the virtual network.
We want to make use of Azure Bastion.
So Azure Bastion can provide secure and seamless remote desktop connectivity and secure shell connectivity
onto our virtual machines.
We'll build network security groups to control the inbound and outbound traffic.
This time, we'll implement an internal load balancer.
The internal load balancer will be used to distribute traffic across backend virtual machines.
We'll use again health probes as part of the internal load balancer.
We'll make sure that we choose the right health settings.
We'll define the backend pool based on the NICs assign onto the virtual machines.
Also, as part of this project, when it comes on to security, we look at enabling service endpoints.
So we'll enable service endpoints for our virtual network onto our Azure storage accounts.
We'll also explore private endpoints as well.
We'll also go through Azure Private DNS zones again, since we are going to be having an internal kind
of network in place with an internal load balancer.
We'll implement private DNS zones.
We look at the concept of auto registration when it comes auto DNS zones.
So let's get started with our project.
First and foremost, in the next chapter let's have an overview when it comes onto the infrastructure.
And then we'll dive right in to building Bicep modules for building infrastructure on Azure.

--- Project Infrastructure Overview ---

So in the prior chapter, we had gone through kind of the project description and the requirements.
Before we start off.
I want to have a quick overview on what we're going to implement in the set of chapters in this project,
from an infrastructure perspective.
Most of this infrastructure deployment is going to be done via the use of Bicep has an Azure administrator.
We need to understand not only how to deploy resources via the Azure portal, but also use tools like
Bicep to build infrastructure as code.
Hence, we'll be using a lot of Bicep code to deploy our infrastructure.
I'm just going to go through, you know, just in brief, what are we going to do.
First we'll use Bicep to build a virtual network and subnets.
Now yes, this might seem very simple because we have done this in an earlier section, but we're going
to ramp it up in this particular project wherein we're going to make use of modules.
We're going to see how to use parameters.
It's going to get complex in nature.
So don't worry.
There's a lot that we are going to learn.
Next we'll look at building an Azure storage account.
We look at creating an NSG.
All of this looks very, very simple.
But believe me, when you start building Bicep code from a modules perspective and a parameter perspective,
I said things can get complex quite fast.
Then we'll build virtual machines.
So we'll build virtual machines based on Windows Server.
We'll place these machines in a particular subnet.
We'll use an existing Azure Key.
Vault has the secrets for the admin password for these machines.
Then we'll extend our infrastructure to include Azure Bastion.
Our machines are going to be private in nature.
No public IP addresses, only private IP addresses.
We'll have Azure bastion has a connectivity option onto these machines.
Then we'll use custom script extensions to host a simple web server.
We'll have an internal load balancer.
All of this will be done via the use of Bicep.
We had seen an example on a public facing Azure load balancer.
This time we look at a private internal load balancer that will direct traffic onto our internal machines.
We'll then deploy another virtual network along with another virtual machine.
Right over here we'll establish virtual network peering.
All of this again by the use of Bicep.
Have a look at other chapters like Azure private DNS zones, storage service encryption, so on and
so forth.
So let's start with our extensive project.

--- Bicep Modules - Building the virtual network module ---

So let's begin this journey into building our entire infrastructure via the use of Bicep.
We're going to start very simple.
We'll create bicep based files that would create a virtual network and create subnets within the network.
Yes.
In the chapter or sorry in the section of Bicep we have seen how to build a virtual network.
We have seen how to build subnets.
This time around we are going to build our infrastructure in Bicep via the use of modules.
We'll use parameters extensively.
We'll make sure to pass in the parameter values onto the modules for deploying our infrastructure.
Initially I'm going to be going step by step.
And then as we get used to building modules using parameters etc. are kind of ramp up the pace in terms
of building our infrastructure.
And remember, the entire purpose of this entire project is, as administrators, you should be familiar
with building infrastructure, using infrastructure as code.
In today's world, it's just not enough to do a certification as per.
You know, my belief you need to have hands on knowledge onto building infrastructure has an admin using
infrastructure as code based tools.
That's why I want to go through this kind of extensive project.
I said, let's start simple.
Let's start with building a virtual network in VS code.
I have a blank slate on my laptop.
I have an empty folder, a project folder.
You're going to start, I said, creating a bicep base file in order to get started within the project
folder itself.
I'm going to create a new folder known as modules for the resources that we are going to deploy onto
our infrastructure.
In this case I said the network, the virtual network, we're going to break up everything into modules.
I'm going to create another folder within modules.
So all of my kind of network based modules will be within one folder.
And then within this I'll create.
Now my file I'm going to name this file has been dot bicep.
This bicep base file will now have the required code for building a virtual network.
What I'll do is let me go ahead and paste in the code that we had used earlier on when it came to building
a virtual network in our earlier section, we had built a virtual network in which we had the name,
the location, the address prefix of the network itself, and what were the subnets.
We want to make this more dynamic in nature.
We don't want to hard code the name of the virtual network, the location, etc. we want to pass everything
via these parameters.
Hence let's define parameters.
Let's define a name parameter which can be of type string.
This can be for the virtual network name.
Let's define a parameter for the location.
Let's define a parameter for the address prefixes for the virtual network.
There are different types for parameters in Bicep.
Normally we've been working with strings, which is quite familiar here.
I've defined has an array if you look at.
When you define the address prefix for the virtual network.
So it comes under the properties.
Under the properties, we have the address space.
With the address space we have the address prefixes.
And the address prefixes are part of an array.
Within the square brackets we can have an array of values.
This is because we can have multiple address prefixes for a virtual network.
So that's why I am defining.
So there is an array keyword that's available in bicep.
Let me also create another array for the subnets that we want to include as part of our virtual network.
I'll just put in descriptions for each of these parameters quickly.
I'll just paste it in to save time.
It's always good to give descriptions meaningful descriptions to your parameters.
Let's save this.
So now within our VNet or Bicep base file let's make use of these parameters.
We already know how to include parameters how to make use of them.
I'm just putting the name of the virtual network here.
Then we have the location when it comes on to the address prefix.
I can just delete all of this and take in address prefixes since this is already an array.
Now for the subnets.
When it comes on to subnets, each subnet has a name itself has properties and an address prefix.
So it's not so easy as the simplest array of the address prefix.
If you look at the address prefix here for the virtual network.
So we can have let's say an array of ten .0.0.
Let's say slash 16, then comma ten .1.0.0 slash 16.
So this is an array of two values.
But when it comes on to the subnets the subnet is an array of objects.
So we have one object for one subnet and another object for another subnet.
Hence for now let me go ahead and just define some code here.
And then when we pass in the parameters we'll be able to understand how the values get updated within
this kind of block that I'm going to define here.
I'm going to delete this.
All of this.
I'm going to say that for all of the subnets that are going to define in our subnets parameter array.
Go ahead and just put this on the next line.
So now the ID, not the name when it comes onto the name of the subnet.
I'm going to get it from this s type of intermediary variable going on to the properties here.
When it comes onto the address prefix.
I will get it for my s intermediary variable.
Now I know at this point in time you will probably not understand this kind of concept that we introduced
here in terms of adding the for loop and getting the values.
Don't worry, I said in the subsequent chapters we are going to define the parameters base file in which
we can pass in our values.
If you are already familiar with Terraform in building infrastructure.
This all will be quite familiar.
There also we have the concept of modules.
You have the concept of being able to take in arrays, objects, etc. in terms of parameters.
So it should not be a problem for those who are kind of new onto building infrastructure, using infrastructure
as code.
So you might be new using ARM templates, you might be new using bicep.
Go through everything step by step.
So when we complete this kind of, you know, introductory chapters into building the virtual network.
So now what I've done is I've built the VNet dot bicep base file.
Then I'll go through building the parameters base file.
Then I'll go through building something known as a main dot bicep base file.
Once you have these in place, just make sure that you have a thorough understanding on how it works.
So for now, what I'll do is let me just save this.
Let's mark it in order this chapter and let's move on to the next.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Building the parameters file ---

Now in the prior chapter, we started this journey on to building our infrastructure using Bicep.
We built something known as a module within our code base in which I have modules folder.
Within the modules folder I have a network folder, and within the network folder I define a bicep base
file in which we are putting in the definition for a virtual network.
Now how do we kind of pass in values to our virtual network?
We're going to do that by the use of a parameter space file.
Within my project I'm going to create a new folder known as params.
Within this I'll define a new file known as dev dot parameters dot JSON.
I'm having a separate folder for all of my parameters, which we can define via a file.
When we submit the Bicep file for deployment at that same time, we can also submit this parameter space
file.
I'm just naming it as dev dot parameters dot JSON.
First of all, just to signify that this is basically going to have values for parameters.
I'm just saying this is for our dev environment.
Similarly you might have another parameters based file for your test environment.
You might have another one for staging.
You can deploy the same or use the same bicep based files with different parameters for building your
different environments like your test, staging, etc..
Let me put in first of all the basic structure first for the parameters and let's start giving values.
So first is the location.
Let's give the location shall we.
Terms of the location.
We have to give it as value.
And let's keep it simple as we always do.
We'll keep it in east us.
I'll put a comma.
Now it comes onto our virtual network for the virtual network now.
So we have the name I have the address prefixes and I have the subnets.
What I could do is I could have a separate parameter of name just as a value, and then put in the name
of my network.
But what I'll do is within parameters or JSON, I'm going to define an object kind of of different parameters.
So within VNet now we'll put in value and within value and within value I'm going to create an you know
an object of values.
Let me put in the name.
So for the name I'll just put in one name of network.
Then what is the address prefixes.
this.
And then finally our subnets.
Now our subnets is an array of values.
Even our address prefixes is an array of values.
So yes this is going to be an array of values.
But this is going to be an array of objects.
For each object we're going to have the name of the subnet.
So let me go ahead and just put in the name.
And the prefix.
Just like this for the moment.
Let's put a comma.
I'll just copy this just to create another subnet.
So let's name this as DB subnet.
And change the address prefix.
Let me click on save.
So now what we've done is we have kind of defined a parameters dot JSON base file in which we are trying
to build in the values that we are going to pass in to our VNet dot bicep base file.
Instead of passing parameters, you know we are trying a different way.
Now, I said I could have defined a simple parameter of name that had been of type string.
I could have defined a separate parameter of address prefixes and then a separate one in terms of subnets.
Why have I built it like this?
One reason is all of these kind of belong onto my virtual network.
The location is something that I'm probably going to reuse for all of my resources.
So this is kind of at a global level for me.
These particular values actually correspond to my virtual network.
So within my parameters of JSON base file just to simplify or just to symbolize.
that these values actually belong to one single VNet.
I'm defining everything as an object, which you can do when you define your parameters.
It does not need to just be simple strings, boolean values, etc. you can have arrays, you can have
objects.
You can be much more flexible in the way that you define your parameter values.
So here I have VNet.
Kind of object.
Its value is the name, the address prefix which is an array of strings and subnets, which is an array
of objects.
For now, if you still don't understand how this is going to work, we are going to move on to our next
chapter wherein we are now going to define something known as a main dot bicep base file.
So let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Defining the main bicep file ---

Now, currently, as part of our kind of definition of bicep, we have a bicep base file that is supposed
to create a virtual network of subnets.
We have a parameters JSON file in which we have given the values for the virtual network, the location
and subnets.
Now, within the main project folder, I'm going to create something known as a main dot bicep base
file.
Within this main dot bicep file I can now call my vnet bicep within the modules folder.
So think of your main dot bicep file has a main program.
From this main program you want to call a module.
You want to invoke functionality of your VNet dot bicep base file.
And you want to pass in values to the parameters that it accepts for your VNet or Bicep.
It accepts parameters of the name, the location, the address prefixes, and the subnets.
You now want to pass that information.
You want to call it and you want to pass.
I said the name, the location, etc..
How are we going to define this main dot bicep base file?
The way that we call it is by the keyword of module.
We can give a name or give a name for the module.
Then we have to specify in which location the module is in.
So it's in modules network and VNet or Bicep.
This is now having its own block.
Again what are we trying to do.
We are trying to now call the code within our VNet dot bicep base file.
The way that we do this is we give the keyword of module We give a name for this module we can give
a simple name.
And then where is that bicep base file located.
It's giving this red squiggly line because it's saying that it's missing the following required properties
of the parameters.
So we do need to give the parameters.
We also have to give kind of a name here.
So this is the symbolic name.
And this is just the name that we can give on to this particular module.
So let's call it has the dev network.
And then finally is the parameters that we need to pass in.
So there are parameters that we need to pass in such as what is a name.
Then we have to pass in the location.
Then we pass in the address prefixes and we have to pass in the subnets.
This is the information that our module expects.
How do we pass in this information.
Well first and foremost here I'll need to define the parameters of the location again, which is a simple
string, and just the VNet for us, which is an object.
So don't worry, we'll try to understand this when we run our code.
That's two parameters the location and VNet.
We can reference our location.
That is simple.
If I go onto my VNet, put the dot operator, I should be able to access its name.
Then I should be able to also access the address prefixes.
That is how we've defined it.
And then finally our subnets VNet dot the subnets.
And It's giving an error because we have the same name here.
So let me do one thing.
Let me name this as dev net and let's save this.
Right.
So we have now our main dot bicep base file, our vnet dot bicep base file and our dev dot JSON base
file.
Take a moment to kind of understand all of these three files in the next chapter.
Let's look at now running our code.
So take your time.
Understand what's happening in main dot bicep in VNet and dev parameters.
In the next chapter when we actually run our code, I'll explain what's happening.
I mean, why do we need to again define parameters here when we already have it in VNet or Bicep?
Why?
Why are we defining it here?
How does dev parameters actually fit in?
How do our subnets information actually go through.
Let's try to understand all of this in the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep - Deploying the virtual network ---

Now that we have all of our code files placed just for building the virtual network, let's deploy it
right.
It's deployment time.
Currently, as part of my Azure account, I have three resource groups in place App app GRP on Network
Watcher and RG AG AZ 100.
Sorry.
So we're going to deploy all of our resources onto this particular resource group.
If I go onto all resources currently I have an Azure Key Vault in place.
We are going to be using this key vault later on.
Again simple.
We've already looked at the creation of a key vault.
There's nothing different.
I was going to create a key vault.
We're going to later on use secrets defined here.
Pass in it as passwords for our virtual machines.
Again, that's at a later on stage.
We are going slow and steady trying to understand how everything works.
It takes time.
In the beginning, if I said if you are new, If you are already familiar with Terraform and other aspects,
this will be very simple for you.
But this is just for those students who are not familiar with building infrastructure.
So now I want to deploy my bicep base files in VS code.
I'll use PowerShell.
So I'll just create a new terminal within the terminal.
Let me first connect on to my Azure account.
Let me just make sure I'm using the correct.
ID for my account.
So just connect an account since I do have multiple.
Azure accounts using device code.
The first step is obviously to connect.
And then I'm going to be using PowerShell commands to deploy our infrastructure.
So just making sure that I sign in onto my account.
Right.
Once done.
We're going to perform a new AZ resource Group deployment.
So this is to our resource group.
And what is our template base file.
So it is our main dot bicep base file.
I can then mention okay let's also include a template parameter file.
This is within my parents folder and it is my dev dot parameters dot JSON base file.
So just understand the command.
We've already seen this before.
It's new AZ resource group deployment.
We are mentioning our resource group, we are mentioning our template file.
So it's not the VNet dot bicep file, it is our main bicep base file.
So imagine that you are invoking your main program.
And for your main program you are sending in your dev dot parameters dot JSON.
Let me hit on enter just to.
First of all make sure that everything is working as expected.
You know, when we start going into further on chapters where things are going to get complicated,
wherein we're going to have multiple modules, multiple parameters, we might run into errors and that's
fine.
Let's go ahead and try to do a deep dive, try to understand how the parameters are getting through.
Understand the code.
I said it's okay if you run into errors.
That's how we all learn.
Okay.
It has succeeded.
It is an incremental mode, so that's good.
Okay.
Let me just close this, if you don't mind.
Let's go on to our account.
Let's click on refresh.
Right I can see my virtual network in place if I go on to it just to confirm.
First of all, everything is as expected.
Okay I have my address space, I have my subnets.
And they have their individual IP address ranges.
Now just for the benefit of students to try and understand what exactly happened.
Okay.
So let's go step by step.
What we've done is we have invoked our main dot bicep base file in the main dot bicep base file.
We said pass in our parameters dot JSON file.
So if we go on to our parameters or JSON base file we have two main parameters.
We have the location and we have VNet.
So VNet is kind of a big parameter value.
But in the end it's only one parameter.
So we have two parameters location and VNet.
We have passed in these parameters onto our main dot bicep base file because we've defined only two
string and an entire object.
So there are different value sorry different types that you can have for parameters.
You can have simple values like strings etc..
Here this is an entire object of values.
If I just put in, what I'll do is just for the moment, let me copy just the VNet and just place it
here just for the time being.
When we get our VNet Object.
The object has a value.
This entire thing is the value.
If I use the dot notation, we can access the name attribute for VNet, which is this.
Then I'm passing in the address prefix again just using the dot operator which is this array.
And then finally I'm using the dot operator for the subnets which is passing in this entire thing.
So we have one set of parameters in our main dot bicep file that takes in our actual parameter values.
So this is the first step.
Your first step is to pass in your values not directly to VNet dot bicep.
You have to pass in your parameter values first to your main program.
Your main program will then distribute those parameter values across your different Bicep based file,
because you can have multiple Bicep based files, all for different purposes, and you open centralized
set of parameter values.
So you submit all of those parameter values onto main bicep.
And I said main Bicep can then distribute them depending upon how you've called the modules.
See later on we are going to define a module for let's say defining a storage account.
Now for defining storage account, the location is going to be the same.
So we have one location parameter defined in main dot bicep.
That same is defined in dev parameters.
And then when we define another module later on we can pass in that location value.
So this is the first step.
We pass in a parameter values on to our main.py file.
And then the main dot bicep file is calling our module via VNet or Bicep and then passing in those values
Okay.
Let me now copy this.
Let's go on to VNet dot bicep.
Now in bicep we've kind of expanded our parameters.
We could have had an object that is also possible.
We could have had a Wiener object.
But we've kind of expanded it.
And we have expanded those values at one level from our main bicep.
And we've passed in has four parameters here in VNet or Bicep.
Here is quite simple wherein we have the location.
The address prefix is an array which is coming in.
So that's also quite simple.
And then we have the name.
So that's already broken down in main dot bicep.
So we have to worry about that.
Next is the subnets.
Now if we look at the subnets the subnets is an array of values.
So we can use the for loop saying that.
Now take this as an array for each and every element in the array.
So this is an element now in the array for each and every element.
In the first iteration of the for loop this entire thing will become s I.
So this is like an intermediate variable that you're defining.
For each iteration we can take in s dot name.
So the dot operator is so useful when you can access the various attributes for your objects for your
properties.
And then we can take in s dot prefix.
Because it's already defined here as a comma.
You know they already separate has name and prefix values.
So we can go ahead and access them accordingly.
You know, in the end, I said, it's very simple.
The only problem is when you start putting more and more modules, you start having more and more properties.
I said it can get very complex in nature.
So when I'm building infrastructure using Terraform, I have a separate Terraform based course.
There also, you'll see that things get complicated quite fast, because there are so many ways in which
you can actually structure your parameters and pass it in.
This is just one way I've tried my best to kind of explain in a brief, like how these things work in
terms of Bicep.
Take your time.
Try to understand again, you know bit by bit how the parameters values are being passed.
So we've got a lot of chapters remaining.
This was just for building the virtual network.
We have to build the storage account, the NSG, the interface.
We have to build our VMs.
I'm going to showcase then setting up an internal load balancer, everything via the use of Bicep.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Building the storage account ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, let's continue our journey onto basically building resources via these bicep.
This time let's move on to building an Azure storage account within modules now.
So within modules not within network I'm going to create a new folder.
I'll name this as storage.
Within storage I'll create a new storage account dot bicep base file.
And this is where we'll define the code.
Now for defining or creating an Azure Storage account.
I'll put in the code that we had seen earlier on in our earlier section on how do we define an Azure
storage account.
So here the main thing is we have the name, the location, the SKU and the kind.
Just to keep this simple for now, I will just define a parameter for the name of the storage account
and what is the location.
So we already had the location and name parameter also for VNet.
But those parameters are only for VNet dot bicep in storage account dot bicep.
We are again defining parameters, but these parameters are again only local for this particular Bicep
base file.
Let me quickly put in a description for each of them.
So first is the name just to signify that yes this is the storage account name and the location.
I'll replace this the name and the location.
Simple, right?
I'll click on save.
Now, one of the reasons that you build modules, you know I'm having a separate one for storage.
I'm having the storage account or bicep.
It makes it simpler later on if you want to make a change, you know there's a separation of concerns.
Right now you have the storage account defined in its own location, it's own Bicep base file.
You have VNet that's in virtual networks.
You are grouping your folders correctly in a manner that I said.
Later on, you'll be able to maintain them separately and at the same time it has separation of concerns
because these are different types of resources.
And then you call everything within your main dot bicep base file.
Now in the dev dot parameters.
We cannot forget that right now in dev parameters we already have the location.
All I need is the storage account.
Now the name.
Let me give a name of storage.
Account name.
Let me just give a value.
So we have to give it as value.
And the storage account name.
And then comma in my dev dot parameters JSON file.
So now we have three parameters the location, the storage account name and the entire VNet object.
It.
What you'll note is the names of the parameters I'm giving here actually kind of indicate okay, what
is it for this for the storage account.
If I go to each individual bicep base file, I mean you can go ahead and give it a symbolic name of
storage account name.
Yes.
You can go ahead and do that.
But since this is only local to these this bicep base file, you can just give it the kind of not randomized
name but a default name like name, location, etc. because it's only local to this particular Bicep
base file.
But in parameter, since this is at a global level right.
You're going to be passing this parameters onto your main bicep base file.
And just to kind of symbolically signify okay, what is this parameter for.
You can give that unique name accordingly.
Now it's time to call our main sorry.
Time to call our storage module.
So to call the storage module.
Again, you'll need to give a name.
So let's give a simple name of storage.
Where is it located?
It's in modules.
This time it's in storage and it's a storage account.
Dot bicep.
Can give the name if you want.
We can give the same name.
Has a storage account if we want to.
Then under the parameters what are the parameters that it expects.
So one is the name and the other is the location.
The location is already there.
What about the storage account name.
Well we need to define it right.
We need to define.
That storage account name has another parameter.
So always don't forget this.
Always make sure that you define also that parameter in main dot bicep.
Because remember in the end it's dead or parameters.
That gives me not bicep the value and that is passed on to your individual module base file.
Then I just put it here.
Let's click on save.
With this done let's go on to the terminal.
Let me just clear the screen and let's run this again.
So again it's our main dot bicep not storage.
Uh dot parameters dot JSON.
Now what is going to do is since this is in an incremental mode by default, remember in the bicep,
it formulates everything.
It compiles everything into JSON and then submits on to Azure Resource Manager.
Yes, it will take our VNet definition.
It will now take our new storage account definition.
But Azure Resource Manager will already see that the state of the virtual network is as per our definition.
So it's not going to touch it or change anything.
What it will do is in an incremental nature, it should only now deploy.
Our Azure storage account.
In the end our main bicep is calling the modules.
So everything will be taken as an entire chunk, right?
Your storage account definition, your version definition compiled into JSON and then submit onto Azure
Resource Manager.
In the end you just call one Main.py file.
Just call your parameters dot JSON.
So what you can do is if you want to build another environment, let's say a test, you define a new
test or parameters or JSON you put in your test values and you can just call again main dot bicep.
It can be part of another resource group.
I can see this done.
Succeeded.
Good.
Let's confirm.
Let's go on to all resources.
Click on refresh and I have my storage account in place.
Great.
Let's mark an end to this chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - The Network Security Group ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, let's focus on building our network security groups as part of our virtual network.
Let me close these files on the modules.
Now I'm going to create a new folder of security.
So normally network security groups comes under security.
And within security I'll create an NSG dot bicep.
Let me paste in the code that we had seen in the section earlier on on how do we build an NSG.
So within that NSG we have defined variable names.
We pass in values.
Then we add the actual resource, the name, the location within the properties.
We add security rules and the rules was an array of objects.
Write an array of values.
So what we can do now is we can pass in this entire section of values.
Why the use of parameters instead of variable names.
I'll remove all of this.
I'll define a parameter of the name that we can substitute here.
So this will be the name of the network security group.
The location.
That we can put in here.
And then our set of rules.
The set of rules will be an array.
Let us put in description for the rules.
I can delete all of this.
And let's put in the rules using a for loop.
So for each and every rules that we have in our array of rules, we just pass in the rules one by one.
I said there are different ways in which you can define your parameters, in which you can pass in your
parameters.
Let's go on to our dev dot parameters dot JSON base file.
After VNet.
Let me put a comma.
For NSG.
So all the values I'm going to pass on to my Network Security group module.
Let's put this as a new parameter put in value.
Now for the value.
This itself is going to be an array.
First I'll put in the name.
So again I could have had a separate parameter value of just the network security group name.
But since again the rules and the name are part of NSG, so I'm just defining one parameter, we have
the name and then I'm going to have a rules based array.
So rules.
And this will be an array of values.
Let me put in one rule for a comma.
This rule is to allow remote desktop access.
Later on we're going to be building windows servers.
And so I'm having this rule to allow remote desktop traffic just as an example.
I'll have one more rule just to showcase how we can allow traffic from the internet on port 80.
So how are these rules formulated?
This is an array in which we have the name and its properties.
So if we do a comparison of.
I said the bicep base file that we had defined in our section on Bicep for NSG.
I said what we had is for the energy itself, the location on the properties.
We had the security rules.
And for each rule, which was just an array of objects, we had the name and the property.
So what I've done is just taken this entire snippet here, put it as part of an entire kind of object
within a rules array.
And I've just done the same thing for the next rule.
So all we're doing is we're just taking each rule as it is and I'm just pausing it here.
That's why there's nothing that we are doing different here in security rules.
I'm just passing everything as it is.
Let me save this.
Now, on to our main dot bicep file.
We need to call.
Our NSG.
So I'll name this as NSG modules this time.
Security NSG dot bicep.
For the name, let me give.
The name I'm defining here.
For the parameters, we need to give the location which is anywhere there.
Then we have to give the name and what else?
We have to give the rules.
In our code here are.
What is a parameter that I'm going to define?
I'm going to find an object of NSG similar to what we had seen in VNet.
Because if I look at my parameter space file, just like VNet, which was kind of an object encapsulation
of values like the name, the address prefix, similar thing here NSG is an object which has a name
and which has an array of rules.
Hence we're passing in an object here, and when it comes on to the name, I can say NSG dot the name
and NSG dot the rules.
Let's give a different name because here energy is already defined as an object.
Let's save this.
Let me go on to the terminal and let's run our code.
Now note that we have not done the association of the energy with anything so far.
It is not linked on to any network interface or onto any subnets.
We'll do this later on as a first step.
I just want to showcase how we can build our NSG.
Although I've not gone through the process of building the network interface, we'll do this when building
the virtual machines.
Also, I'm not building a public IP address.
What I just want to have is I want to have machines privately situated within kind of a virtual network,
so I don't need public IP addresses.
Once done and it's a success, let's click on refresh.
Yes, we do have the NSG in place.
If I just look at the rules right.
We have the rules in place.
But we know that it's not linked onto any network interface.
It's not linked onto any subnets.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Attaching the Network Security Group ---

Hi and welcome back.
So in the prior chapter we defined our network security groups.
Now in this chapter let's associate these groups with our subnets.
So currently within our virtual network we have two subnets in place.
We want to link our NSG onto subnets.
If we look at our previous code.
So let me go onto NSG bicep in the section of bicep.
When we looked at linking an NSG onto subnets, what we've done is we had used the resource of the type
virtual networks and subnets for each and every subnet.
We need the name, okay.
It belongs to the parent virtual network can do.
And we give what is the address prefix of that subnet.
And then we attach it onto the ID of the network security group.
We'll need to do the same thing here within NSG dot bicep.
So first and foremost, let me take this.
And just define this as just a generic block of associating subnets with the NSG.
So first is the name.
We need the name and we need the address prefix of our subnet.
What I'll do is I'm going to create a new parameter.
I'm just going to name this as attachments.
And define it as an array.
This would contain.
Let me just put the description.
This array would contain kind of the description of the virtual network, the subnets etc. to get the
name.
Now I'm going to go through I'm going to use the for loop For each and every attachment that we have
in that attachments array, and we'll define this in a moment's time.
So for each of this let's define this as a block.
So I'm removing the name from here.
Now.
Here we can give the subnet name I said we'll define this later on.
And within the properties.
Right.
We need the address prefix.
We'll get this from the array.
And then we need our network security group.
So let me go ahead and just put this hazardous for now.
Let me delete this.
We don't require this anymore.
So I'm trying to have a generic block now to make sure that the block is defined properly.
So now we have only one block in place.
This block will run multiple times.
For each attachment that we have we are going to provide it the subnet name and the address prefix.
And we only have our NSG in place.
Now here there's one more thing that we have to consider.
Remember in that subnets block we had that thing of a parent and VNet.
We don't have the VNet object here.
We could have a resource block to get an existing VNet.
But another way to make sure that this subnet, we mentioned that this subnet belongs onto that virtual
network because this will be required by the subnet block in terms of the name.
That is something that we can do in Bicep.
For the subnet block we merge the name of the virtual network and the name of the subnet.
I'm going to use string interpolation to take in the VNet name and subnet name, which we're going to
pass in via attachments, and then formulate the name for this particular block for the subnets.
Let me save this.
Now going on to my main dot bicep file, what I could do is I could define a new parameter of NSG attachments.
This could be an array and I can scroll down and just pass it here.
In this array we need to pass in the virtual network name.
We need to pass in the subnet name and the address prefix.
We could do this via parameters, but I just want to showcase how we can do it also via variables.
See in terms of parameters we are already passing in our virtual network details.
That's already coming in here.
So we have the virtual network name.
Here we have the subnet names and the prefixes.
Hence ends up having a separate parameter.
I can define this as a variable within main dot bicep.
And define the array of values here itself.
Since I want to attach this onto two subnets I'll define two blocks.
What does this require in terms of energy attachments.
So if I scroll back onto my energy dot bicep it expects a VNet name.
Then it expects a subnet name.
And it expects a address prefix.
This is for the next block as well.
So again I could pass in parameters as an array in parameters JSON.
But since I said I'm already passing in the values for the name, I already have it in the VNet object.
Hence this reference those same values.
Again, I'm creating now a variable instead of a parameter.
So parameter is done to pass in the values.
When you deploy the bicep base file, those values will be available to the VNet object.
What I'm doing now is I am taking those values and defining a variable within this main dot bicep base
file For each array, because in NSG I'm going through each and every element in that array.
What does it expect?
So if you look at the a dot dot operator, I expect each element in the array to have a name, the name
of the virtual network, the name of the subnet, and the address prefix.
Going on to our dev dot parameter space file.
So if I look at my VNet object I can get the name via VNet dot name, VNet dot name.
Let me go ahead and just copy it here.
What about the subnet name.
So it is VNet dot subnets.
So let's go ahead and do it VNet dot subnets.
Since this is an array itself This element is going to have an index position of zero, and this element
will have an index position of one.
Since I want to associate the energies on both subnets, I'm going to put in a value of zero here and
put a value of one here.
And then for each element we can access the name and the prefix.
So this is dot name.
And then I can say dot the prefix.
So let me copy the same thing here.
This will be one.
Now please note that this may not be the cleanest way in passing in variable information because over
time passing in these index values from a maintenance perspective will get difficult when you start
having multiple virtual networks and subnets in place.
If you want, you can pass it as parameters.
You can find a different way of dynamically passing in values.
So since we're going step by step, I'm just trying to showcase the different ways in which you can
formulate your passing of information between files.
So let's try this out now.
Let me go on to the terminal and let's see if we can run this.
Alright.
Once done it is a success.
So let's confirm.
Go onto network interfaces and just click on refresh.
Go on to the subnets.
And now I can see it is linked onto both subnets.
In this chapter I want to showcase an approach on how we can attach the energies onto the subnets.

--- Lab - Bicep modules - Building the Windows VM bicep file ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now let's use Bicep to deploy VMs onto our current infrastructure.
So we have an Azure storage account.
We have a virtual network along with subnets.
I want to deploy two VMs onto this particular subnet.
These VMs will be based on Windows Server 2025.
I do want to have any public IP address.
Please note that in this subnet we are not going to deploy anything.
The only reason I have the subnet in place is just to showcase how we create multiple subnets within
a virtual network.
Now I do have another resource group.
Actually the name is not shared.
It's another name.
That's fine.
You can go ahead and I'll change it later on.
I have an Azure Key vault in place.
When we specify the admin password for the VM from bicep, we are going to fetch the password that's
already been defined in an existing keyword.
Normally your keyword will see.
Currently, what we're doing is we're using Bicep to kind of manage this infrastructure.
Normally your keywords will be managed separately from your bicep based code.
So we're using bicep to manage our infrastructure.
Press it for some kind of global or shared type of resources.
You will manage them separately.
So outside bicep.
Hence I already have a keyword in place that has secrets.
We can use these secrets as password for our VMs.
We'll see how to do this step by step.
I am going to break this kind of deployment into multiple chapters, because there's a lot that we need
to configure, just not to confuse ourselves onto the entire deployment.
I said, we'll break this down chunk by chunk.
Okay.
Going on to VS code.
VSCode.
Under modules I'm going to create a new folder of compute.
Under compute I'll create a bicep file known as windows VM dot bicep.
I'll just hide this.
Let me define the parameters.
So first is the location of the type string.
I'll have another parameter of the VM size of the type string.
Another parameter for the admin username of the type string we want, we can have a default one set
here.
So let's say Azure admin.
We'll have a parameter for the password.
This is also of the type string We are going to take this password, I said from the Azure Keyword Service.
We'll see this.
Don't worry.
At the moment I'm just defining my parameters.
I'm going to use the secure marking because we need to securely pass this.
Take it from the key vault and then pass it on to, you know, our Azure VM deployment.
Let me just put a description for each parameter.
Let's have one more parameter which can be the VM name.
This is of type string.
Now let me add the block of code for defining the virtual machines.
The first is the name of the machine.
This we can use it as VM.
Name the location.
Then under the properties let me go ahead and add first of all, the hardware profile.
I'll just paste the code in.
I have the OS profile that has the VM name.
Basically the company name.
The admin username.
And password.
Under the storage profile let me add this.
So this is after the OS profile in the service profile.
Just to make sure that we build a machine based on Windows Server 2025.
The publisher will be Microsoft Windows Server.
The offer is Windows Server 2025 has a skew the latest version.
We are building an OS level disk.
After the storage profile, then we build the network profile in the network profile.
We need to mention the network interfaces, which remember is an array in this array.
We need to mention what is the ID of our network interface and in the properties we can just put it
as that.
It's a primary network interface.
This is the base code that we have in place.
We still need to define our network interface.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to add another resource block for building the network interface.
We have the name.
At the moment I have not defined the name for the network interface.
Let me do this a little bit later on.
Let's define the location under the properties.
We have the IP configurations, which is an array.
Within that array we define what is a name.
Let me give a name of just ipconfig.
And under this we have the properties in which you can put the private IP allocation method as dynamic.
And we have to mention okay, this network interface is part of which subnet.
We have to mention the subnet ID.
So far we've just have the base configuration in place.
Let's move on to the next chapter where in we're going to see how do we change this VM.
This windows VM dot pi base file to actually build multiple machines.
What I want to do is you know from my main dot bicep base file, I want to say that I want to build
two machines as part of my subnet.
We'll have a count parameter that we can pass in onto this windows VM dot pi.
Based on this count parameter we'll build two network interfaces and two virtual machines.
So let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Adding code for multiple resource copies ---

Now continue on to building our machines.
I want to go through the process of one way on building multiple machines at a time.
What you could also do is probably you could have one module that defines one machine and one network
interface, and then call the module multiple times.
Another way is within the module you can probably pass in a count parameter saying that okay I want
to create two virtual machines.
Let me add another parameter here after this.
So let's add a parameter for the count.
This will be of the type integer.
So it's a numeric value.
Let's say that this count parameter defines the number of machines to create.
Since we are trying to build multiple machines.
I will now define this.
This virtual machines block has an array.
we're going to use a for loop to basically build.
The multiple machines.
So here I said we need to add a for loop.
And it kind of define okay for this for loop build multiple machines.
How do we devise the for loop.
Let me go through one way because we also need to now somehow dynamically create a VM name.
I can't just leave it as VM name for each iteration.
So I said let's say we are trying to build two virtual machines.
In our case it is let's say VM dev web one and VM dev web two.
Hence the name of the machine needs to be dynamic in nature for each Hydration.
In the for loop, we need to generate the virtual machine name.
I'm going to create.
First of all, a new variable of indexes can give any name using the for loop.
I'm going to go through every.
I'm going to create a range of values basically.
So from one to count please go ahead and output the value of I and everything needs to go into indexes.
So for example, if I pass in a count of two to this windows VM dot bicep, that means I want to create
two machines for each value of I in the range.
So range of 1 to 2.
The count I want to go through each and every value in this range.
Hence, for the first iteration of I will get one and the other one will get to.
In the end, indexes will become an array of two values one and two.
We can obviously just use, you know, count and I within a for loops when creating resources.
But I'm just making it simple by creating variables to hold my values beforehand.
Because we're going to use this even when building a network interface.
So is it based on count?
I just want to first of all create an array of numeric values.
So indexes is going to be a value of numeric values.
In this case I said if I pass in a count of two I will get an array of one and two.
Next, let me generate another variable name for the VM names.
So instead of Now kind of hard coding the VM names.
I want to build an array of VM names beforehand.
For this parameter, instead of putting it as VM name, I'm going to put it as base name.
What you'll notice here is for my resources.
You know I have VM dev web one VM dev web two.
So maybe VM dev web can be kind of a base name for our resources within this particular network subnet.
And we can use this base name to build our virtual machine name.
So imagine that in this base name we are passing VM dev web.
Now note that we still have to go to our parameters dot JSON file to pass in all of this information.
I'm just giving you beforehand to think okay, how are we going to pass in values.
So I said imagine that we're going to pass in a count value that will mention that we want to build
multiple machines, not just one.
See, the entire idea of this project when it comes on to Bicep is I said to build modules for each
and every resource type at the same time.
How do we work with parameters at the same time?
How do we build multiple resources without defining the same resource block multiple times?
So we want to run the resource block.
So we want to have a for loop to run the resource block multiple times itself to build resources.
So if we have a base name of this has a string, let me now generate VM names.
I can now say that for I in my indexes, which I've just built right here.
So for each and every index value.
I'm going to go ahead and create a new value which will take in.
So again string interpolation I can take in the base name.
And put in the value of I.
So so let's imagine that you put in a base name of VM dev web in index.
Now sorry indexes we have one and two.
So now VM names.
Will again become an array.
And in this array the first value will be VM dev.
So the base name and one because the value of I will be one in the first iteration.
And then we'll have VM dev web two.
Right.
This is the way that we are trying to build our virtual machine names.
So now we have VM names in place.
Let's iterate through the VM names for each VM name we can pass in the name here.
The value of I is just the iterator that can use for each item in VM names.
Okay, so far so good.
We are just trying to build kind of a dynamic for loop in building our VM names.
Similarly, we need to have a for loop for our network interfaces.
In a similar way.
Let me build something known as network names or nicknames.
Again the same concept.
If I just copy this for every index.
The base name is going to be vm vm dev.
So that's problem, right?
Let us not pass in then VM dev.
What I can do is let me put in VM hyphen the base name and I.
So for the base name let's just pass in dev web.
I think we'll see this in the parameters of JSON based file.
And we can pass this as nick the base name and I.
So this this is our nicknames.
And similarly let's add the for loop here.
So for each nickname and I in nicknames.
Let's put in the nickname here and let's close it.
Right.
So far so good I'll go ahead and save this.
So we are now doing a lot.
Let's see that when we run this, does it work?
If not I said we'll try to diagnose the issue.
Now, uh, the thing is here, okay.
The network interfaces, we can go ahead and now get the network interfaces because we have defined
it here.
So if I go on to my Nick's next object if I just scroll down the next object?
Here you know we have this for loop, right?
That is going through the variable of nicknames.
That is an array.
So we are we understand the concept of having parameters as simple strings, arrays, objects etc. and
we are making use of that concept in Bicep to go through each and every nickname in the names that we
have defined.
Right.
That's done.
Now Nix has a resource since we are using the for loop.
I said Nix has a resource based object.
Remember?
Now this is also an object, right?
Nix VMs.
All of these are resource objects managed in Bicep.
Don't confuse this with Azure.
Azure is resources.
Resources have configuration properties so on and so forth here.
Now we are using Bicep.
Each resource that we build here in Bicep is managed as kind of a resource object.
Normally we just have one we've seen only in the past.
Like we only have one object.
For example, if I go on to.
Our network VNet.
So in VNet there is no for loop.
We have one VNet object.
In the end it is a resource object within Bicep.
And we can refer to this object within our code.
This object maps on to the virtual network in Azure.
Now here we are using the for loop.
Which creates now multiple sorry nick based objects.
It creates an array of resource based objects.
So for example, you'll get Nick's zero which will point on to the first network interface that gets
created via this block.
This network interface has the configuration of ipconfig zero one.
It'll be mapped onto a subnet id, so on and so forth.
Then you will have Nick's one.
This will be the next network interface that gets created via this block.
All because if we put a count of two this has its own ipconfig.
So on and so forth.
So we have two network interfaces in Azure that will be mapped in Bicep to these Nick's objects.
That will be that will be created by this resource block.
This is all very important to understand I said, because things get complicated quite fast.
We do understand this concept of the resource block.
So how does it become.
It's nix zero and one.
So I could just do is in order to refer to the ID of the nix.
I can't just do.id.
It's not going to work.
You'll see this red squiggly line because it's an object type that's required.
If I now put in the square brackets to signify that we are trying to access an individual element of
the nix array, if I put in, let's say 0.id, this will work.
So we need to have an array dot the id.
Now obviously we can't hard code the value of zero.
So how do we get this value.
Well if we go on to the loop what we're doing is for each VM name in VM names we also have access to
the index.
Now, by default, the index in the for loop or whatever index it is.
I will start with zero, one, so on and so forth.
So if I specify the value of I here.
So during the first iteration of this for loop that creates the first virtual machine.
The value of I will be zero.
Hence it will refer on to the network interface of zero.
During the next creation of the virtual machine, where I will become one.
Here it will refer on to the next network interface NICs one.
That's how we are trying to dynamically build this resource block to refer on to a different network
interface.
All right.
Let's mark an end onto this chapter.
We still have to address this issue of getting the ID of the subnet.
Let's do it in the subsequent chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep modules - Defining outputs ---

Now in our journey onto building VMs as part of our subnet.
Currently, we are at a point where in we need to understand how do we pass in the ID of the subnet.
So when you build a network interface, you don't pass in the subnet name or the address prefix.
We to get what is the actual ID, the resource ID of the subnet.
We have kind of seen this in IRM templates.
We've seen this in Bicep.
One way is we could use the resource ID function.
That is also by the way available here.
Because in the end I told you Bicep compiles onto ARM JSON and that is submitted on Azure Resource Manager.
So here I could go ahead and say okay let's take let's get the resource ID of.
We know that the way that we do this is we provide the type of resource we can provide a virtual network
name and the subnet name.
This is one way of doing it.
But let me showcase a different way in which we can get the subnet ID.
So I didn't have to remove all of it, just the resource block.
But I just want to get the subnet ID.
Urdu is.
Let me create another parameter.
I'll just name this as subnet id and string.
Just put a description.
Let me just put in the subnet ID must be thinking is that it.
I mean how how are we passing the subnet.
How are we getting it.
We're just passing a string.
How are we getting that subnet ID?
I must define the parameter here.
We're going to pass it on to windows VM dot bicep okay.
Now all of this in place let me start building first of all the dev parameters dot JSON base file.
Let me do this in the beginning itself.
Just not to confuse and let me create a new object.
Put a comma, make sure I put in value.
And what all do we need to pass.
Well we need.
Well the location is already available.
It's already present.
We need the VM size.
So here let me put in the VM size.
Now I could put in the VM size separately.
But again we are putting this as part of a uh you know encapsulating it within a windows based configuration.
So put in the size.
The next what else do we need.
The admin username which we can pass in.
So I'll put in the same one for now Azure admin.
What's next.
Okay.
The password is something that we need to pass in separately.
We'll do this later on.
What is the base name.
So if I put in the base name has dev web.
So based on this base name remember we are building our virtual machines and our network interfaces.
What else?
Okay, so location VM size admin username.
The base name.
Okay.
The subnet ID is something that we need to pass in.
How do we get the subnet ID.
Let's do this a little bit later on.
Then the count.
Let let us put a count of two.
We want to build two virtual machines.
Let's go on to our main bicep base file.
And let's call.
Our module.
Before that let me define the parameters.
So I'll do is let me define a new object parameter I'll scroll on top.
So what have you done in the earlier chapters?
Then we are going to pass this right and we can refer it onto building the module.
Let's go ahead and build a new module that will call compute and a windows VM dot bicep.
Terms of the name.
Let's say I'm building Windows Web machine.
And in terms of the parameters we pass in the location which is available, the base name we can can
get from the web.config, the base name, then the VM size.
Same thing for from the config the VM size.
The count we still need to get.
What is the subnet ID?
We still haven't tackled this.
I said one way was to kind of put that resource ID function.
What we could do is here we could pass in the parameters of the virtual network name and the subnet
name.
And then within that windows VM dot bicep we could use that resource ID function, take in the VNet
name and subnet name, generate the ID and allocate it accordingly.
I want to showcase one more way in which we can get the ID.
If I go on to my VNet dot bicep file, I'm going to make a change here.
I'm going to scroll down and add something known as an output block.
If we need to pass in the values of the resource objects from here onto, let's say, a calling program.
So for us, main dot bicep is calling this module.
If we want to pass in the values of B.
Net.
Remember again that v.
Net is a resource object.
This resource object would have the properties that associate with the relevant resource in your Azure
account.
Now by default, main dot bicep will not be able to access the properties of VNet within VNet or Bicep.
If you need main dot bicep to access properties of the virtual network, we have to send across as an
output.
So again, it's just like the parent the main or bicep cannot access directly the child.
It can only pass in values, but if you want to get something back onto main or bicep and maybe pass
that on to another module, maybe then we can output values.
Now what I want to output as values is the subnet ids.
So let me put in subnet IDs.
And similarly like parameters like variables we have different types.
We have the boolean the integer the string.
I'm going to choose an array.
Why.
Because we are getting or we have sorry a array of subnets a collection of subnets.
Right.
And we want to output that.
So I'm going to say for each and every subnet that is present in subnets.
And at the moment this subnets is actually coming from the subnets array here.
So as such I am not probably using a good use case of outputs because you know this is coming.
I just realized it's coming to the same thing.
Uh, in terms of, um, I said trying to get the subnet IDs because I'll be using resource ID here,
but this is just an introductory way to showcase how we can define outputs within a module and how we
can pass it back onto main bicep.
Hopefully later on, I can showcase another example of using outputs that will be more relevant.
So here I just want to pass in information from VNet or Bicep to my main dot bicep file.
So for each subnet that I have in my array which I'm passing in here that's already available.
I'll just put in name and the ID And what you notice here is I'm putting the same resource ID function
I said, which I could have also done there as well in windows VM dot bicep, but it has an introduction
onto using outputs.
I want to actually output the value from here because, uh, the information about subnets should come
from VNet or Bicep.
It's not that we should pass in information from somewhere else onto you know C it's all about the separation
of concerns.
Windows VM should be about the virtual machine.
Subnets should be with the virtual network.
So we're trying to make sure that we address those separation of concerns.
I'll save this.
Now that we have defined an output I can go on to my main dot bicep file.
Take my.
Net.
So dev net dot outputs dot the subnet IDs which remember is an array.
Not the most efficient approach.
I'm taking whatever is the first subnet that's going to be as part of that array.
But hopefully the first subnet is as per net dev east west web zero one.
So I'm taking the first one dot its id because we have.
Now the ID also returned to us as part of outputs.
Right.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter wherein I just want to showcase how do we use outputs.
I said hopefully later on we can have a better example.
For now, let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep - Final deployment of the virtual machines ---

Now in this chapter, let's complete our process of building the Bicep files for our virtual machines.
We've done a lot.
We built a bicep base files for the windows VM.
We have mentioned all of our parameters.
We are using for loops to define multiple network interfaces and multiple machines in VNet.
We have an output of subnet IDs that we're giving on to the calling main bicep program.
And we can use the module name Devnet dot its outputs, get the subnet IDs and we have the ID in place.
Now in this chapter let's focus on the admin password for the VM.
We can do is you can define the admin password within an Azure Key Vault.
As we know in Azure Key Vault is a managed service in which we can host keys encryption keys, Secrets
and certificates, I have defined a new keyword.
It is part of a different resource group, so I want to manage this outside the scope of Bicep.
So I've defined it as a part of another resource group.
The changes I've done is first of all for access control.
We've already seen this earlier on.
I've given myself we'll see multiple roles, but the main role I've given to myself is the keyword admin
role.
I said, I've already shown this.
How do you add a role assignment to yourself?
So I've given the keyword admin role.
Then when you go on networking, I made sure to allow public access from specific virtual network and
IP addresses.
All I've done is I've made sure to add my IP addresses.
So these are the IP addresses of my laptop and allow trusted Microsoft services to bypass this firewall
and under access configuration.
If I scroll down, I've said, let's use Azure Resource Manager for template deployment.
If I go on to my secrets.
Currently I have two secrets defined, one for a Linux machine and one for a windows machine.
This is a normal secret.
I have mentioned.
Here the password or the secret value that I mentioned is Azure ad the rate 123.
So the admin username is going to be Azure Admin.
And the password for the machine will be Azure ad the rate 123.
So I want the password to be picked up from the Azure Key Vault.
What we have so far in terms of our code is in windows VM dot bicep.
We have defined find a secure admin password and we are using it here, so that's good.
We need to pass it on to our main dot bicep base file somehow, and make sure that we define it in our
dev parameters or JSON.
Now just for the password I'll just maintain this outside the scope of the web.config for now.
I'll put in the value.
Now normally what we do is we put in a value.
But this time we are going to put a reference because here the reference is on to an external service.
We want this value to come in from our key vault.
That's why now the market has a reference.
We then put in the reference has the keyword you don't enter.
I have to mention what is the id of the keyword?
And if I put in comma, what is the secret name that we want to fetch from the keyword?
So what is the secret name?
So this is the secret name.
I'll just copy it and place it here.
What is the ID of the keyword?
If we go on to the properties of the keyword itself, this is the resource ID.
Just copy it onto the clipboard and let me place it here.
So now we have a reference onto the keyword in the parameters file.
So now when we pass in the parameters file all these are static values.
But then before it submits this password onto our main dot bicep file, it will fetch the value from
the Azure Key Vault.
Let me put in.
A parameter here.
Of the type string.
I'll scroll down.
And now here for the admin password it is just the wind web admin password.
We are all done.
We should be able to now run our code.
But before I do that I'm going to add the depends on clause.
I did talk about the depends on clause when it came to ARM templates.
If there is a dependency that one resource needs to be present in Azure Before we create another one,
right, we add a dependency.
Normally Bicep does have the capability of understanding the dependency across resources.
But sometimes because we manage a lot of resources at a time.
So here we could be creating a new resource, updating one, so on and so forth.
There could be a problem wherein you have multiple writes happening to the same resource at the same
time.
And that would, you know, throw an error when it comes to Azure.
So I'm going to add some dependencies.
First of all for the windows VM.
I'm going to add a dependence on and this will be dependent upon.
The module for the NSG.
Why I'm doing this is I remember getting an error where in you know even though our file is not going
to touch the NSG at this point in time.
Let's say you're deploying this entire infrastructure from scratch.
They could come a time wherein the energy is being updated to point on to the subnet.
At the same time the VM is being deployed onto the subnet.
In this particular case, you know, this thing, what could happen is that because the writes are happening,
probably at the same time it can happen.
You can get an error, as I'm saying, dependent on the shared NSG.
And then for the NSG, I'll say this is dependent upon our VNet, our dev net.
Sorry.
You understood.
So I'm saying the energy is dependent on the virtual network and the VMs are dependent upon the NSG.
Okay, after all of this, let's try this out.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's run this first.
I've come back.
We have got a failure.
Let's try to understand.
How do we diagnose failures?
I said it is not a problem if your script fails.
It's good to understand what the error is about.
Sometimes you might be able to discover.
You might be able to understand the failure right away.
Or you might need to do some research.
Now, the way that we can understand the failure is I can go on to my resource group.
Let's go on to our deployments.
Is this the same one?
I think it should be the same thing.
See, we can see the deployment name that has been given here starts at 56F.
The same thing is here.
Let's go on to the error details to try and figure out.
If you can can't understand or admin username expected value string received a value of integer.
So it could be a problem where in I just made a mistake.
Could be a silly mistake, right?
Right.
Sorry for the admin username.
I mean, you probably would have seen that that mistake that I made.
I said it's when you start building large scripts.
Can run into issues.
I said, it's good.
I want to showcase that.
If you do run into an issue, I said, you can.
It's perfectly fine.
You can always go ahead and diagnose issue.
Sometimes I said, it's straightforward.
If not, we just have to do some research on the web.
Just try and figure out what the issue is exactly.
Let's see if it deploys now.
I've come back.
Just took two minutes.
The deployment has succeeded.
Let's confirm.
Let's go on all resources.
I can see my two network interfaces in place.
Nic dev, web one and Nic dev web two.
And I have my VMs, VM dev web one and VM dev web two.
So that's good.
We now have our resources in place.
If I go onto it right.
It's based on windows standard DOS.
It's in my S-net dev web zero one subnet.
We look at the network settings.
For web one.
I can see it is attached onto Nic dev web one interface.
So everything has worked as expected right.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter and let's move on to the next.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Azure Bastion - Public IP address ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in our journey onto building infrastructure, the next step is I want to build or deploy Azure Bastion
onto our infrastructure.
Now, by the way, you might be asking me, Allen, you are focusing so much on Bicep.
Is it really important?
I said as per today's world, it's not just enough that you study for a certification.
You have to understand that companies now really need to have hands on experience when it comes on to
it.
If you're going as an Azure admin to build infrastructure and only today's world relies a lot of automation.
With automation, you should be able to build infrastructure as code.
So yes, it is important.
You know, I said Microsoft recommends now that you use Bicep instead of ARM because of its flexibility.
Also in this section we are going to cover some other topics that are important from an exam perspective.
Yes, majority is usage of Bicep.
But you know there will be some chapters on some important points from an exam perspective Now for a
bastion deployment.
Yes, we do need a Bicep based file for deploying bastion.
We will need one more Bicep based file for deploying the public IP address.
So we don't have that at this point in time because all of our machines have been private in nature.
So we need one bicep for public IP addresses.
We will need one bicep based file for the Azure bastion.
Also, we have to understand that the Azure Bastion subnet the name needs to be Azure Bastion submit
itself.
So let's go ahead and carry out these changes.
Now first and foremost.
Uh, if I just go on to my dev parameters dot JSON base file.
When it comes on to the subnets here, if I just want my bicep base code to deploy a new subnet, all
I have to do is to define the name and the address prefix in my parameters file.
It's that simple.
So now when we actually run this code, it will pick up that change and deploy a new subnet.
We know that the name of the subnet needs to be Azure Bastion subnet.
That's simple.
Now let's deploy the public IP address that we'll do that first.
Under network.
Let me create a new.
Bicep base file.
Just looking at the previous code that we had seen in an earlier section.
This was the method of deploying a public IP address.
Let's have a parameter name.
For the name of the public IP address itself.
Let me put in the description, the sorry, the location has a parameter.
So we can put in the location here and put in the name here.
You can also have the SKU if you want to.
You can just put this SKU.
This has to be standard when it comes on Azure Bastion.
But for now when it comes down to public IP addresses we only have standard.
Then we can also put the allocation method.
Which needs to be static.
Okay.
So this was the simple deployment of a public IP address.
What I can do is in my main dot bicep file let's create.
Go to main dot bicep.
Let's create a module.
So this is for the Bastian public IP address.
We need modules.
It's a network public IP.
Let's give a name Bastian IP.
Then the parameters.
We have to pass in the name.
The location we already have.
Now, in terms of the skew, I'll just pass in direct names here.
Just to keep it simple.
Allocation is also static because these won't change much.
It comes on to the name.
I'll just go into my desktop parameters file.
I'm going to find a new parameter in which I'll have all of the values for bastion.
One of them will be the name.
So I'll just put in the name that I want to give.
So I'll just put in the name that I want to give onto the public IP address.
In my main dot JSON base file.
Let me define something known as bastion as an object.
To lock this as secure.
This is for the web admin password.
I'll scroll down.
Okay.
Bastion dot.
Public IP address name.
Okay.
Let's mark an end to this chapter.
Let's move on to the next wherein we define the module the bicep module for bastion.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Deploying Azure Bastion ---

Now under security, let me create a new Bicep based file.
This will be for deploying bastion.
Since we've not covered deploying bastion, let me just create the resource block.
Let me also define the parameters.
So we'll have a name for the bastion host.
And we'll define it here.
Then we have the normal location.
Something known as a skew.
This will remain standard.
Then we have the actual properties of the bastion.
This is scale units.
Now we'll be deploying a bastion based on either the standard skew.
We have different skews of bastion.
bastard.
So we have the basic standard.
The reason I'm doing standard is because I want to show an aspect when it comes onto using Azure bastion
of the standard skew.
In part from an exam perspective, there is a cost for using Azure Bastion.
If you are worried about the cost, do need to go through the deployment.
Just understand what I'm doing.
So it is going on to the documentation page.
I said Azure Bastion is important as it wherever possible in this project section.
It's not only about Bicep is important, but it's also about some core concepts which are important
from an exam perspective.
So with the basic skew, the standard and the premium in the standard skew we have something known as
host scaling that is available.
Now what exactly is this scaling concept.
If I go onto the bastion configuration settings under instances and host scaling.
So each instance remember in the end you have an instance in Azure Bastion that is supporting connections
to your internal virtual machines.
Each instance obviously depends upon the workload, but roughly can support around 20 concurrent RDP
connections and 40 concurrent secure shell connections.
So if you need to connect to more machines, then you need more number of instances in your bastion
host.
This automatic scaling can scale based on demand.
So instead of you trying to monitor the number of connections and then trying to understand if you need
more hosts in bastion, this automatic scaling is possible.
In our configuration file we can just put in the scale units has two.
If you want you can add this as a parameter.
Then we have the IP configurations.
Obviously we need to map this onto.
That public IP address I'll just give a name for the ipconfig.
That's the name.
And then under the properties we need to mention the subnet that this is going to come under and the
public IP address.
So we have to mention the ID of the subnet and the ID of the public IP address.
Let's leave it blank for now I'll go into my parameters file here.
I'll just add one more parameter for the name of the bastion host.
Now go on to my main dot bicep file.
Let's look at the module for deploying the bastion host.
So it's in modules.
It's in security bastion dot bicep.
Just give a name.
Then in the parameters, let's pass in the various parameters.
The first is the name.
This we can take from our bastion object dot name.
Then is the location.
Let me go ahead and save this.
So what all do we need?
Right.
So we have the location.
We have the name.
I said we need the subnet ID and we need the public IP address.
Like how we're done earlier on.
Let me define the bastion subnet ID here.
So I'll just define subnet ID as a string.
And the public IP id.
Has a string.
We're going to pass this on to.
This bastion module.
So we have this in place now going on to our main Bicep file.
So we need to pass in I set first our subnet ID.
For the subnet ID.
I'll use a method that we had used earlier on.
Again this was not the best approach.
If I go on to my devnet dot subnet IDs.
Okay.
And here I'm going to mention two.
Why two.
Because if we look at dev dot parameters file okay.
If you look at the array.
So for the subnets array this is at index position zero.
This is at index position one and this is at index position two.
So I'm saying please please the bastion host in this Azure bastion subnet.
Again, not the best approach, but we'll do for now.
What about the public IP address for the public IP address.
I could do the same thing.
Use the resource ID but let's make use of outputs.
So going on to the public IP dot bicep let me put in a new output of ID.
This is of the type string.
And I just want what is ID of my public IP address.
So now this is a better um example of seeing outputs.
So we want the properties of the public IP address which we can get.
So if I do a dot you will see that you can get its location, its name, its queue.
If you go on to the properties you can get its IP address, its IP configuration.
You can get everything about this object, this resource object that maps onto the public IP in Azure.
But all I need is the ID.
So I want to pass in this ID as an output onto my main calling program here in Main.py.
So in my main dot bicep file.
Now when it comes onto the public IP address I'll take this module.
Dot outputs dot the id.
That's it.
I'll save it.
If you're getting confused about IDs okay.
We can make this as public ip id.
I said in case if you're getting confused.
Take this.
And in main dot bicep you have to reference it like this.
This is for the convenience of making call.
Understand?
Has to, uh, you know, passing values from the modules onto your main.py.
Sep.
Now we are kind of done.
I'm making one change here.
I'm adding one more property of enable tunneling as true.
I want to showcase something known as the native Client support for Remote Desktop.
And for this we need to, uh, set the property of enabling tunneling to.
True.
I'll do this right now.
We'll be going through a chapter later on on this.
Let me go on to the terminal.
Now, this will take time.
As you know, Azure Bastion does take time.
And here the entire purpose of Azure Bastion is to give us the ability to probably log on to our internal
machines.
Currently, the two machines I have don't have public IP addresses, only private IP addresses.
I'll hit on enter now in case if I do get an error we'll go through it, but if not, I'll mark it in
onto this chapter as it does take time.
Then I'll come back.

--- Lab - Azure Bastion - Native client support ---

In this chapter, I want to go through the native client support that's available for Azure Bastion.
When we configured Azure Bastion, as we enable that special feature of native client support here.
If I just go on to the documentation link.
So here we can configure bastion for native client connections.
It accepts connections from the native client when it comes on to Secure Shell or Remote desktop.
This native client feature lets you connect to target VMs via bastion using Azure CLI.
What does this mean?
As an example, let's say I wanted to copy a file from this VM onto my local machine or from my local
machine onto this VM using this web interface.
It's not possible.
We can copy text onto the VM, but I can copy text but an actual file from my local machine.
It's not possible.
Normally from my laptop, you know, we could establish a remote desktop connection in the section of
compute when we build an Azure VM.
Even remember there, if we hit on connect and click on the connect button, we can download the Remote
desktop file.
But the problem is that the remote desktop file only has the private IP address.
That's not going to work by default.
It is not routable over the internet, so we cannot use remote desktop utility as such to connect.
That's not possible.
So currently our connection is in a wire, the serial console which you've seen earlier on.
Right.
We can do that.
That is possible.
Why Azure bastion.
This is also possible using this remote desktop utility has such.
The EXE is not possible using that native client support.
That is something that we can do.
This only works with using Azure CLI.
So how does this work?
Well we need to formulate the Azure CLI command.
Let me just open up notepad to just formulate the command.
We've already looked at Azure CLI.
It's the command line interface that allows us to interact with Azure based services.
We have to do an AZ network bastion RDP.
Give the name of our bastion host.
Most.
Then what is our resource group?
And what is the target?
Resource ID the target resource ID is the entire ID of your virtual machine.
So in our tab, if I go on to VMs again let me go on to let's say VM dev web two.
As an example.
I will need to go on to the properties of the machine.
I need the resource ID, so I'll copy this entire thing onto the clipboard.
Let me paste here.
So we've got this entire command now in place.
Let me take this command Then, before I run the command, let me do an easy login first to log into
my account.
So we can establish a remote desktop connection tunnel onto our VM.
So we are getting remote desktop has a connectivity option.
And it is trying to connect I'm going to choose another account.
So I want to log in as Azure Admin.
Azure AD the 8123.
Now we are able to get a remote desktop session to the windows base VM.
And now we can actually perform the act of copying files onto the server or files from the server onto
our local machine.
So in this chapter briefly I want to go through that native client support that's available.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Custom Script Extensions ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now as the next step in configuration of Rbms.
Y these are bicep.
I want to install a web server.
And I have the default HTML page on both of our machines using custom script extensions.
I want to use bicep.
What I've done is in our storage account that we have deployed via bicep in the containers.
I have uploaded the PowerShell script file.
We have seen this in the compute section.
I kept it the same.
It's very simple.
It is just installing first the feature of the web server and then printing out a simple HTML page.
So I won't change this.
I want to apply this via custom script extensions.
Let me go on to my windows VM dot bicep file.
I'm going to paste in the parameters that I'm going to pass in to this file.
So just to save on time now, you know, we have understood a lot about bicep.
Now it's just a matter of us kind of making sure that we append to our current Bicep files to configure
our machines with custom script extensions.
We need to pass in our file has a URI.
We will need to generate a shared access signature for our object.
The PowerShell command is to you know, and then we have that PowerShell command with the execution
policy to set up that file.
So I just need to make sure it is the correct name here.
So this is the default parameter that we can set up or copy the block of code.
Now that we can use for setting up custom script extensions I'll just scroll all the way down.
For virtual machines.
The extensions.
I'm just giving a name for the range of all of my virtual machines that I have in V names.
I'm taking each virtual machine as the parent passing in the script URI and the script command.
I'm keeping things.
Again, very simple.
We've already seen how to kind of configure our machines.
How do we work with the for loop?
What does range do.
What does the parent do.
I just want to I said enable custom script extensions next in my parameters dot JSON file when it comes
onto my win web.config.
I'm going to add one more parameter here.
This should be the shared access signature.
So I'll go on to my object in the container.
Let me generate a new sass.
I'll leave the permissions as read.
I'll generate the sass token and the URL.
I'll take the blob sass URL.
I'll copy it onto the clipboard.
I'll place it here.
Save this.
Let me also go on to my main dot bicep base file.
Now in the main file for the parameters I need to put in my script URI, which can come in from my config
object that I've defined here, and it is the script URI.
A script command is the same, but if you want you can pass it in here.
I'll save this.
Going on to the terminal, let me create a new terminal window.
Let me carry out a deployment of the custom script extensions.
Now, as we know, this will take time.
In case if there are any errors, I'll come back.
Else we'll move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep modules - Deploying an Internal Load Balancer ---

Now I've come back.
The deployment has succeeded.
If we want, we can confirm.
I can go on to the BMS.
If I go on to Web1.
Go on to extensions and applications.
I can see my extension in place and the provisioning has succeeded.
Has the next step.
Now I want to build a load balancer that will sit in front of these machines.
This time I want to build an internal load balancer.
See, there can be times wherein you want to have kind of a private application.
You don't want the application to be exposed onto the internet.
You only want users within the company to use the application to distribute traffic across the application
that's hosted on VMs.
You can have an internal load balancer with the internal load balancer.
You don't need a public IP address.
The load balancer can use now a private IP address from your virtual network, and then you can route
request via the load balancer.
So what are we going to do is we are going to deploy the load balancer by this time.
Why the use of Bicep.
Let's recall the important things that we configure for a load balancer.
First is the backend pool of machines.
These are going to be the machines in the backend pool.
We will have to update the network interfaces of each machine to be part of the load balancers backend
pool.
We need a front end IP configuration for the load balancer.
When we looked at an example of a public facing load balancer there, we had a public IP address in
the front end IP configuration, This time in our front end IP configuration, it's going to be a private
IP address from our virtual network.
Then we have a health probe.
The health probe is used by the load balancer to check if the backend machines are healthy or not.
And we have the load balancing rules.
So let's go ahead and deploy the load balancer via the use of bicep going on to our code on the network.
I'll create a new file.
I'll name this as internal ELB dot bicep.
Now please note that I'll be pasting in the code now when it comes on to bicep base files.
There is a lot that goes into the internal load balancer or a load balancer as such.
I have already developed this code from before.
I'll paste in.
What are the possible parameters that you can have for the load balancer?
First is definitely the region, the name of the load balancer.
We need the subnet ID, I said.
Now we are trying to build an internal load balancer, not a public facing load balancer.
For the public facing load balancer, we need the public IP address.
For an internal load balancer, it has to pick up a private IP address from a subnet.
It can be any subnet.
It does not need to be an empty subnet a name just to give to the front end to the backend pool name
when it comes onto the probe.
Now the health probe I'm going to be using an HTP probe path.
I'll explain this later on.
Once it is configured, I'm giving a probe name and a name for the load balancing rule for the resource
itself.
So it's based on the load balancer I'll put in The name, the location and the SKU.
It'll be of the SKU, the standard load balancer.
Let me define the properties.
First.
We have the front end IP config.
In the front end ipconfig.
We give the name for the front end IP configuration, and under the properties we have to give the id
of the subnet.
So we need to pass in the ID later on in our main.py file.
I'll give a name then for the back end address pool.
So please know that all of this is coming under the properties of the load balancer.
How do we assign the machines?
We need to assign the machines by changing the network interface of each, you know, network interface
that's assigned to the virtual machines.
We need to make sure that each network interface points onto our load balancer.
Then I'll define the probe.
Now we have not done an STP probe.
Early on we had looked at a TCP probe.
Here the protocol is just STP.
We are going a step further.
See, on our back end machines we have internet information services listening now on port 80.
Why the use of our custom script extensions?
That means now the load balancer.
Instead of just sending a simple TCP request, it can now send an HTTP request.
And if it gets a response back, that means it is deemed to be healthy.
Then I need to add the load balancing rules.
In the load balancing rules.
How do we define the rule?
We first say that for a particular front end IP configuration, we have to route the requests onto our
back end address pool using our probe.
So these are the important aspects.
In order to define a rule we need the front end IP configuration.
We need the back end address pool and we need the probe.
Then we tell okay if a request comes on the on port 80 of the load balancer, then directed onto port
80 of the backend pool.
And then we have the other configuration settings.
Now when it comes on to pointing to the front end IP configuration, the backend address pool and the
probe, the way that this is designed is we have to get the ID.
Now the problem is I cannot take I just go on top.
So I cannot take.
The resource I told you is a block.
It's an object I can't say ELB dot whatever front end IP configuration dot.
No.
The problem is that this becomes then a recursive and internal type of loop wherein we are trying to
create the load balancer, but then we are trying to refer to the load balancer itself during creation
time.
So this is not possible.
The way around this is we can just use the resource ID to get the particular resource ID of the front
end configuration.
So the front end configuration, the back end pool, the pool will be a separate resource altogether.
They'll have their own IDs.
So we can use the resource ID function to get them accordingly.
So we can't use the resource block as such.
The dot operator to get the properties of the load balancer in this particular case.
And then finally I also need to add an output.
This output is to give the back end address pool ID.
The reason we need this is we have to attach our network interfaces.
Now I'll go on to the windows VM dot bicep file.
I'm going to add a parameter that we will need to send in across later on.
And that is the back end pool ID, which you just send as an output.
We need to go on to the network interface.
That you define here.
After the subnet we have the load balancer back end address pools.
Here we mention the ID.
Has the backend pool ID.
I'll save this.
Let me go on to my main dot bicep file in the main dot bicep file.
I'll just add one parameter for the name of the load balancer.
Let's go on to dev dot parameters and just give a value in the parameters.
Let me add it in the beginning itself.
It's giving a name for the load balancer, saving everything and going on to our main dot bicep file.
I'll just add a module.
Here.
Let's add a module for the load balancer.
This is under Modules Networking internal.
Let's give a simple name for now.
And in the parameters pass in the location.
The name of the load balancer.
And we need the subnet ID.
What I'll do is I'll place it in subnet ID zero, or we can even put in one.
Either will do just to keep it simple.
I'll keep the load balancer private IP and the machines in the same subnet.
You can have a separate subnet if you want.
And I need to go on to write.
We need one parameter now.
This is for.
The back end pool id.
So since I've added an output I can go onto the outputs and take in the back end pool ID.
What this will do now is this will deploy an internal load balancer and then place the machines in the
back end pool.
Let me go ahead and run this now.
And as always if there is an error I'll come back.
If not, let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Building the test network ---

Come back.
The deployment did succeed.
If I go onto Azure.
Go onto all resources.
I can see my load balancer in place.
If I go on to it.
Let's confirm all the configuration details in the front end IP configuration.
We have the name you will see.
This is a private IP address from our web based subnet.
How do we now send a request to this load balancer.
Because it is private in nature.
We can't use the public internet.
What are we doing is in this chapter is kind of building another network quickly.
And within this network another subnet we'll build a quick VM.
We'll build another VM based on Ubuntu Server and we'll establish virtual network peering.
So we'll do this all now.
So we'll do this all via bicep.
But before that just going back onto the configuration of our load balancer.
So just to confirm if I go on to the backend pools, I can see both of the machines part of the backend
pool.
The health group is now based on HTP.
So remember in the protocol we can choose simple TCP.
That simple TCP request.
But here we want an HTTP request to be sent by the load balancer to check if the backend machines are
healthy or not.
And we have the load balancing rule, right.
If it goes on the front end IP address directed onto the backend back end address pool on port 80.
In this chapter, let's deploy a new virtual network and have a Linux based machine now has part of
the network all again using Bicep.
So first of all within compute let me quickly create.
A new Bicep based file based on Linux.
I'll just take the windows, copy the entire thing because the concept is the same.
I'll just remove some of the aspects.
I do want to set this up.
Indeed, you could probably just have maybe one main, you know, kind of virtual machine bicep and
then substitute the values as parameters, something that you can do.
So the location is still the same.
The VM size, the admin user name we can put as Linux admin.
Now as the default.
We do want the admin password from the key vault, the same base name, the subnet ID, the count and
everything remains the same.
We don't need the.
Back end pool.
Okay, let me just confirm now in terms of.
I'll just change the aspects just to make sure it's taking ubuntu 24.04.
The latest?
Yeah, the same thing as the VM name.
In the OS profile.
It is a VM name, the admin username and the password.
Just need to make sure there's one more aspect of disable password authentication is false.
That means we do need a username and a password.
But apart from that is this all remains the same interface.
I don't need this resource block because I want to build a simple ubuntu server base machine.
Within my dev parameters dot JSON file.
So we do have a lot of parameters in place.
I'm going to paste in kind of a Linux web config object in which I give the base name.
I give the VM size.
I only want to create one machine and this will be the admin username.
I also need to put in what is a Linux Web admin password, which I need to pick up.
So we've done the same thing here.
For the web admin password.
I've done the same thing for the Linux one as well.
In my existing key vault.
I have a secret.
The same concept we take in the resource ID.
So I have a secret defined for my Linux based secret.
So I've just defined it again here.
We only understood how to do this for the windows based machine.
Same concept and similar to how we define this VNet here.
I'm going to find one more parameter based object for my test network.
I'll give the details of my test network with its address prefix.
I am saying I only want one subnet.
I will now go on to my main dot bicep file.
In the main bicep file let me define these parameters.
So I have the Linux web config object, the Linux admin password and the test vnet.
Also for the NSG.
We can attach the same NSG to another virtual network in the same region.
This is possible in part from an exam perspective.
So here I am giving the VNet name which is already defined as an object.
I'm giving the subnets.
I only have one subnet, so I'm just putting a zero as the index number.
The name and the prefix I will scroll down.
Let's define a new module for my test network.
We can reuse our VNet now to building this test network.
Let me just paste in to make it simple.
The name and the parameters.
So what we're doing now is we are reusing our modules.
Then we'll define a module now for our Linux machine.
So this is in compute and Linux.
So now we have the parameters I'm taking the location the base name from the Linux web config.
The VM size this time from testnet taking the outputs and the subnet ids, putting the count the admin
username and the password.
So all I'm doing is I am building a new machine in a new virtual network, this time based on Linux.
Let me go on to the terminal.
Let me run this.
And as always, I'll mark it in onto this chapter.
Let's hope it goes to completion.
Let's come back once we have that machine in place.

--- Lab - Bicep Modules - Establishing Virtual Network Peering ---

Now in this chapter, let's go ahead and establish virtual network peering between our networks using
Bicep.
So our deployment did succeed.
If I now go on to all resources and click on refresh, I should see my new test app in place with its
own disk, and it should be in the VNet test East US network.
So if I go on to the VM itself, I can see it is based on Ubuntu Linux.
It does not have a public IP address, and I can see that it has a private IP address from the subnet
of that remote network.
If I go on to connect and try to connect, you know I want to connect via bastion.
Sorry if I go on to connect, go to the overview.
Let me connect via bastion.
Here.
It will tell me that we need to deploy bastion.
Early on, we have understood that we can have bastion across multiple virtual networks.
But the reason that we cannot use bastion right now is because there is no peering connection between
the networks.
So let's go ahead and establish that on the network.
Let me create a new Bicep base file.
So I'll call this VNet peering dot bicep.
In order to establish peering we need the local virtual network name along with its ID.
We need the remote virtual network name along with its ID.
I'll define the resource block.
So in terms of the resource block, we need Microsoft network slash virtual networks slash virtual network
peering under this.
Obviously we do need to give the name, which I will give in a moment's time, and we need the properties
of the peering connection.
In terms of the basic properties of allowing virtual network access, we can mark this as true and you
can mark the allow for traffic or gateway transit as you desire.
I'm just keeping them as false.
And then we need the remote virtual network where in we have to mention what is the ID.
So I'll put in the remote VNet ID here in terms of the name.
I'll just put in or use string interpolation to Create a name of the local VNet.
Name to the local VNet name and the remote VNet name.
So it's designing a name here for the peering connection.
Now we need two connections peering.
So we have to understand that we have a connection from one network or to another.
So from the local to the remote and from the remote back to the local network.
Let me put a name here and I'll just change the name.
The way that we design the name here.
And this time for the ID, I'll put it as the local VNet ID.
This is a VNet peering.
Now, since we do need now the ID of the virtual network, I'm going to go on to my VNet dot bicep base
file.
I'm going to create a new output in which we output what is the ID of our virtual network.
We will need this.
Then in my dev dot parameters file.
Let me scroll on top and define two parameters.
One is the local VNet name.
So the source network from where we want to establish peering and the remote virtual network name.
Save this.
Then I'll go on to my main bicep file.
Let's create a new module of VNet peering.
So under modules network and VNet peering.
Just provide a name.
Then in terms of the parameters.
I need to give what is a local b.net name for the local VNet name.
I'll just take it from our VNet object dot its name for the remote VNet name.
I'll take VNet dot.
Sorry.
The test VNet dot its name for the local VNet id.
We now go on to.
Our dev.
Dev.
Right.
Our dev.
Net resource object dot outputs dot the VNet id.
And finally for the remote it is the test.
Just making sure that it's the correct one.
So it's test net.
Dot outputs dot the VNet id.
I'll save this.
Let's go on to the terminal And let's run this.
Let's wait till this is complete.
I won't mark it in to this chapter right now.
And by the way, we are also kind of done now when it comes on to working with Bicep for this particular
section, we are going to look at some other aspects now like the Azure Private DNS zone.
We'll revisit this again.
We'll go through Azure Storage service endpoints and private endpoints as well.
I hope you've enjoyed this extensive exercise.
When it comes on to designing modules with Bicep, I just feel from an admissions perspective for companies,
this is very, very important for building infrastructure.
And once you are familiar with one language for building infrastructure, you get an understanding on
using other languages as well.
So do let me know in your messages.
What do you think about this project, and what more can I add in terms of adding more value for the
project itself?
Once this is done, let's confirm.
Let me go on to this time the virtual networks.
Let's go on to VNet Dev East US.
Let's go on to Peerings.
Yes.
And we can see a peering connection in place.
Next let's go on to the virtual machines onto the VM test app.
Let's try to connect via bastion.
And now we can see we can use that same bastion host.
Just use my username and the password that I have defined in the key vault.
Great.
We are logged in.
Now, what I'll just do is let me go on to my internal load balancer.
Take the private IP address.
Know about right.
It is 10.0.0.6.
So going here let me do a curl SDP 1.0.0.6.
This will send a request to the private load balancer.
And we're getting a response back from one of the virtual machines.
So let me accompany you.
I said you might have some infrastructure in place, a web application that serves requests to external
customers.
Again, this could be internally.
So you could have one network, one load balancer that's basically servicing those requests.
And you could have another network, another application that's sending or consuming the request, and
your virtual network peering in between.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Private DNS Zone ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to again briefly revisit Azure private DNS zones.
In our entire architecture, we have kind of an internal setup of a load balancer that works against
virtual machines hosting, let's say a web application.
And then we have kind of a test network in place.
Since this is all private, you could probably set up Azure private DNS zones.
If you want to have DNS names attached to the private IP addresses.
This is just kind of a quick revisit is let me create a new private DNS zone.
Yes, obviously we can do this via Bicep, but let's do this now in a manual approach.
We've already gone through quite a lot of Bicep in the previous chapters.
Let me just give a name for a DNS zone cloud Learning.com.
I'll go directly on to review and create.
And let's create the DNS zone.
Let's wait and come back.
I'll wait for some time.
Let's come back once we have the DNS zone in place.
Once you're the DNS zone in place.
We go on to the virtual network links.
Let me add a new link.
So let's link this on to our VNet dev East us.
So VNet dev East us.
Let's establish a link there.
Let's enable auto registration and click on create.
What this means by auto recession.
Remember that if you do have virtual machines in that network, automatically a records will be added
for those machines in your zone.
It should create.
Okay.
It's creating that link.
Let me go to this add another link.
This will be for our test.
So we net.
Test East west link I won't enable auto restoration I'll just click on create.
Now this means that we don't want the records.
Sorry.
The virtual machines in our test network to be recorded here.
But the VMs in the test network can still perform DNS resolution using the Azure Private DNS zone.
Let's wait till both are completed.
So we do have dev East us in place.
Let's just wait for a minute, okay?
Once we have the links in place, if I go on to the record sets, I can see a record for VM dev, VEB
one and Vcv and VM dev.
Sorry web two.
I also have records for these two machines.
Initially I thought where these two machines are coming from.
Then I saw their private IP address.
These are basically those two units of Azure Bastion that are also coming up.
Remember in the end you have those instances running Azure Bastion that are managing the connections
for you.
So they have also been listed as a records within this zone.
You'll notice that the record for VM test app is not come through because we have not enabled auto registration.
But since we have linked this virtual network that's holding VM test app one on to this Azure Private
DNS zone.
What this means is we should be able to.
Now over here do a curl command HTP.
Okay.
The name of VM let's say dev.
Let me go on to each individual machine so I won't go through the load balancer.
For now I'll go through each machine.
So VM dev web one dot cloud hub learning.com.
If I hit on enter I'm getting the web page that is being served from that machine itself.
Now what I could do is I could go on to my zone.
Let me add an A record.
So we'll add an A record for cloud learning.com itself.
And I'm going to put in what is the private IP address assigned onto the load balancer.
I'll click on add.
Let's see if this works right.
So we have that a record in place now here from VM test app.
Let me do just a simple curl HDP cloud hub learning.com.
This should hit our load balancer.
And it's working as expected.
So it's hitting the load balancer.
And the load balancer is now getting the request from one of the virtual machines.
So this is kind of a quick review again of Azure Private DNS zones.
Before we end this particular chapter, let me just quickly create another private DNS zone because
we can create multiple zones.
Let me just put a cloud hub learning test.com.
Let's do a review and create.
And we create the zone.
Just a quick check.
This is wait till we have the zone in place.
So once you have the zone in place, let me go on to it.
Let me go on to the virtual network links.
Let me try to add a link again onto VNet dev.
VNet dev.
I'll just give a simple name now.
Let me try to enable auto registration.
I'll click on add again.
Let's try the other one VM test VNet VNet.
Test zero one.
Here I'll enable auto registration and click on create.
So what you can see is for VNet dev zero one.
It's not working at any point in time.
If you want to enable auto registration it can only be done with one zone at a time.
So one virtual network can be linked onto a zone.
But if auto is enabled, then it's only that one zone.
We can always add a link to.
For example, if I just click on add again.
Let me choose VNet dev East us again VNet dev zero one.
But this time I won't enable authorization.
So this should go through so we can have multiple virtual network links for our different Azure private
DNS zones.
But at any point in time, we can only have auto enabled for one of them just waiting for this to be
done.
So the other one should also complete.
But if I go on to my record sets so I can see the record for VM test app one, this should go through
should not be a problem.
Right.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter.
Just kind of a revision when it comes onto Azure private DNS zones.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Service Endpoints - Preparation ---

And welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to cover something known as Azure Storage Service Endpoints.
We have the capability of actually having a virtual network service endpoints to different Azure based
services.
So going on to the documentation page when it comes to Azure Virtual Network Service endpoints, this
provides secure and direct connectivity or an optimized route through Azure Backbone Network.
See if we look at for example we want our test machine to contact the storage account.
Now, even though the machine does not have a public IP address, outbound connectivity to the internet
is still possible.
You have to understand that the storage service is a public service that is available over the internet,
and we need you know, request to go through.
So this is possible because outward connectivity to the internet is enabled by default.
But if you want the traffic to not cross the internet onto this public service, you can create something
known as a virtual.
Sorry, not this one for this network, a virtual network service endpoint.
And then connect that endpoint or allow that endpoint the traffic to the storage account.
We'll see an example of this to get a better understanding.
What I would actually like to do is I haven't tried this out, but let's try it out.
This is actually for let's write on a windows based machine.
Currently, outbound traffic will not be enabled for our VMs because of the load balancer.
Let me go on to.
So I said, what I want is I want to showcase virtual, uh, network service endpoints.
Before that, I want to install Azure Storage Explorer on a windows based machine.
Let's try this out.
But the problem is that we will not be able to.
If I go on to the local server, I'll first need to turn off this.
I enhance security configuration.
This will allow us to download files.
But if I go on to the edge browser and if I try to just search for content.
So if I try to search for Azure Storage.
Explorer, it's not going to work.
Because by default the Azure Load balancer does not allow outbound traffic.
Let's try this out.
Let me go on to the load balancer.
I have not tried this out for a private facing load balancer.
So as we can see, we do not have outbound rules for an internal load balancer.
Otherwise, if it was a public facing load balancer, we could have outbound rules in place.
We only have the inbound Nat rules.
So since this is not possible, what I will do is just to make sure that we can establish outbound connectivity.
I suggest for now I will delete the load balancing rule first.
Again don't do this outside outside of your bicep configuration.
I want to showcase an example on using virtual network service endpoints.
So the first thing is we'll delete this rule and from the backend pool.
Let me delete this.
Remember you can always apply a bicep configuration.
Again it will make sure that you have your configurations intact.
So once I've removed the machines.
Let's try this again.
We might need to probably reconnect onto the machine.
Let me just try this Azure Storage Explorer because by default.
Outbound connectivity for machines is enabled.
Now I've actually just come back I've got the internet connectivity from the Azure VM.
But what I had to do is I had to actually go on to the web VM, go onto the IP configurations, and
I just made this wizard create and configure a new public IP address on the network interface.
Then I got internet connectivity in place.
So I just need to check this because as per my understanding, there was an update some time ago that
by default outbound access is allowed, but this might change over time.
So you didn't need a public IP address for outgoing connections.
See Azure bastion is used to configure incoming connections.
And here we are not having an incoming connection.
It's connection onto the internet.
Again I'll check on this but it's fine.
So in the end I just want to have a machine in a virtual network.
It's fine that we have a public IP address.
It is not a sign on to the load balancer.
So on this machine let me search for Azure Storage Explorer.
Let's install the tool on this machine.
So this is on the virtual machine, not on my local laptop.
We are on the windows server.
Let's download windows x64.
Let me install it.
While this is being done, let me go back onto Azure.
So we have that Azure storage account in place that we have defined as part of our bicep configuration.
The storage account has a networking section.
Under the networking section we have different aspects.
We can configure public access, we can configure private endpoints.
If I click on Manage Public Network Access we have some options in place.
We could either disable or restrict complete inbound access to the storage account while allowing outbound
access.
You could secure by something known as a perimeter.
If I click on enable, there's something known as a public network access scope.
We could enable this from all networks or just enable this from selected networks.
I am going to keep the settings.
I'm going to click on enable for public network access in the scope.
I want to enable it from selected networks.
Here I'm going to add my client IP address.
If you are working along make sure to add your IP address.
So I said this wizard can detect the IP address assigned by internet services provider to your Wi-Fi
router, and your laptop sits behind that.
You need to add it, because if you don't do this, you will not have access to yourself to the Azure
Storage account within the Azure portal itself.
So make sure that you add your public IP address, your internet IP address.
I will then click on save.
Okay, once you save this, let me see.
The installation is complete on my.
Machine or I need to click on next here.
The entire idea is I want to showcase how we can limit connections.
So it's not only about virtual network service endpoints, it's also about limiting connections to Azure
storage.
So there are two aspects here.
One aspect is Azure storage as a service is a public service.
It contains kind of a firewall.
In that firewall you can limit connections.
What we've currently done is we have limited the connection to only from my machine, so only my laptop
should be able to connect to the Azure storage account.
Here we have launched Azure Storage Explorer.
We've already learned about Azure Storage.
Let me try to connect to Azure Storage Account.
So here what I'll do is let me go on access keys.
So I'll copy the storage account name.
Let's go here.
Let me right click and connect on Azure Storage I'll choose a storage account or service.
Choose account Name and key.
Click on next.
Give the account name.
Take the key.
Place it here.
Click on next and click on connect.
Let me expand blob containers because we do have a container in place and we're actually getting something
known as an authentication error.
This error is coming through because of that setting.
We put in that firewall of the storage account.
See the key is used for authorization to authorize you.
We are fine from an authorization perspective, but we are not able to even connect this firewall setting
that we have in networking.
But if I click on manage, what you've done is we are limiting connections to the storage account itself.
We are saying that only this IP address can even connect.
So first step is connection.
So the authorization perspective is fine using the key.
That should not be an issue.
But we are not even able to connect.
So not able to connect from where.
From our Windows server.
Let's try to rectify this by the use of virtual network service endpoints.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Service Endpoints - Implementation ---

Now in the prior chapter, we were trying to you know, I want to showcase the concept of virtual network
service endpoints.
We went through an elaborate exercise wherein I just tried to have a current VM in place, a Windows
server.
We installed, Azure Storage Explorer.
I'm trying to access my storage account, but I can't do so.
We can use that service endpoint to provide a private kind of secure connection using the Azure Backbone
network.
So instead of the request going via the internet, request from the VM in the virtual network can just
traverse the backbone network of Azure to the storage account.
How do we do this?
It is a two step process in another tab.
Let me first go on to the virtual network.
So I'll go on to VNet Dev East US that is holding my VM dev web one.
Go on to Service endpoints.
Click on add.
And we have a variety of services on offer.
So the public services like Azure, cosmos DB, Microsoft Android or even what we have Microsoft Web.
We also have the key vault service.
All of these public services, you can kind of have a private connection, secure connection that does
not need to traverse the internet onto these services from your virtual network.
Now I want storage, so I'll choose Microsoft Storage.
There's something known as service endpoint policies that you can define this.
If you want connections to certain storage accounts.
Then I'll select my subnet the web subnet I'll click on add.
So the first step is to add something known as a service endpoint.
Now once done if I go on to the public access for the storage account I can add an existing virtual
network now to enable connections to the storage account.
I can choose my VNet dev.
East us select my web zero one subnet.
You can see that the service endpoint is actually enabled.
It's not showing as required because we already enable that.
And I'll click on add and then click on save.
So now we're trying to give secure access to our virtual network to the storage account.
Now after some time when you click on refresh and view the blob containers, now we can see our container
and the script file in place.
Now in case if you can't see it, it's still giving the error a couple of things.
Just wait for a couple of minutes.
Secondly, what you can do is you can just detach this connection, right.
We can go ahead and detach it and just reconnect again.
But in the end, now you are connected via the use of a virtual network service endpoint.

--- Lab - Using Network Security Groups - Outbound access to storage account ---

Now we have looked at the implementation of a virtual network service endpoint.
So now our Azure VM is, uh, kind of making a private and secure connection onto the Azure storage
account via the use of that virtual network service endpoint.
And by the way, since I have a public IP address assigned onto the machine, I'm using the normal remote
desktop utility, that connection and working with the VM itself.
In this chapter I want to go through the influence of network security groups.
Now when you have connections to storage accounts, what I'll do is, uh, let me go on to the network
settings of the VM.
Let me add an outbound security rule in which I'll say any traffic from.
Let me just use the virtual network to the internet.
On any port number, any protocol, I'll put as deny, I'll just say deny graphic, I'll click on add.
So now remember that when you are looking at Azure Storage Explorer from the VM, you are establishing
a connection onto the service.
In the end, it is still a public service.
So even though you are going via the service endpoint, you you know, your information that you need
to get is still going towards that public endpoint, the storage account service.
Because of that rule, now that NSG outbound rule, we are getting a timeout connection error.
If in case your company does have these outbound rules to restrict traffic.
If you want to allow traffic onto the Azure storage account, what we can do is we can add another inbound.
We can add another outbound port rule.
Let's make sure that the property is 410 to supersede this denied traffic rule.
So this will be an allow rule.
And I'll just say allow storage somebody I'll configure it for now.
Allow storage I'll scroll on top.
Let's put in the source has the service tag of the virtual network in terms of the destination.
I'll choose the service tag.
There should be a service tag for the storage service storage service in East US, because our storage
account is in the east US location and the service we choose is a normal HTTP service because our requests
go on.
You know why the HTTP protocol onto the storage account?
Let me click on add.
So it is adding now a fine grained rule that allows traffic to the storage service in east US on port
443.
Now if I click on refresh all.
Just go on to the blob container.
Now we are able to view the container again.
So in this chapter I want to showcase the influence of Nsgs onto that outbound traffic.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Service endpoint policies ---

In this chapter, I just briefly want to go through service endpoint policies.
So I did mention earlier on when we create our service endpoint that we can make use of policies.
If we just want to limit the traffic onto a particular storage account or onto a particular set of storage
accounts.
When we make use of service endpoints, by default it is to the entire storage service.
But maybe you want to limit it to just a set of storage accounts.
For this we can make use of service endpoint policies.
Now as a quick example.
So I'm anywhere on the page wherein you can create an associate service endpoint policies.
So what I've done is I have now two storage accounts in place for a dev storage account.
If I go on to the networking section.
Just to review our settings, currently it is enabled from the selected network of VNet Dev Deaf East
US for this particular subnet in another tab.
Let me go on to the other.
Storage account.
So this is kind of a storage account I've done the same thing.
Okay I have a container for scripts base container I just have one blob in place.
And then going back onto the storage account if I go on to the networking section.
The same thing in public access if I click on manage.
I've enabled it from the same virtual network and the same subnet within Azure Storage Explorer.
So I do have an existing connection onto the Dev East US account.
And I can access the scripts container within here.
Let me add also reconnect on Azure Storage.
Again choose a storage account or a service.
Select the account name.
Going on to my test network.
Go on to access keys.
Let's also connect on to the storage account.
Just want to make sure that I can connect on to both storage accounts from this VM.
So yes I can I can see the I can see the scripts container here.
Okay.
Once this is done, once we can confirm that this is working as expected.
All of this is going via the service endpoint going onto Azure.
Let me search for service endpoint policies.
Let's go ahead and create a new one.
In my existing resource group just give a simple name.
In east US.
Go on to next.
Let me add a resource.
So this is based on Microsoft Storage.
A single account in my resource group.
I'll choose my storage account.
Now please note that I can only see one storage account in place here, because my other one is in another
resource group, and that's fine.
It's not a problem that we have it in the other resource group.
They are both in the same locations and we have seen that from the virtual machine.
We can access both storage accounts.
Here I'm creating a very specific endpoint service endpoint policy that maps onto our storage account.
I'll click on add.
Let me go on to review and create.
Let's create the policy and let's wait for this to be done.
Once you have the service endpoint policy in place.
I'll go on to it.
We will need to now associate this policy with a subnet.
I'll edit the subnet association.
Choose my VNet.
Dev East us.
Select that dev subnet and click on apply.
Let's wait till the update is complete.
Now once the update is done going back on to our virtual machine I'll click on Refresh All.
For Dev East us.
I can go on to my scripts container.
So this works as expected.
Let me try to go on to the test storage account and see if I can get.
So it's not working.
This is just because of the service endpoint policy kicking in.
Where in now it's only giving us access to that single storage account.
So in this chapter briefly want to go through the service endpoint policies.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Private Endpoints ---

Now in the chapter, I want to go through something known as private endpoints.
We have looked at virtual network service endpoints that kind of provides a sort of secure connectivity
over the Azure backbone network onto your public services.
But in the end, it's still kind of that public endpoint with private endpoints.
You can, you know, it's kind of bringing the storage account service into your virtual network.
The storage account kind of service will get a private IP address from your virtual network.
And all communication now will be, you know, more private in nature between private IP addresses.
So yes, virtual network service endpoints is one capability wherein you can have that private and secure
connection.
But with private endpoints you can actually bring the you know, it's like bringing the entire service
into your virtual network.
Let's see how we can accomplish this.
First of all, what I'll do is for my storage account.
Let me go on to the networking section.
So you're in public access.
I'll click on manage.
Here in terms of public access.
Let me remove this setting of the service endpoint.
That means now from the VM we will no longer be able to connect to our storage account.
So that's one thing.
There is something known as a private endpoint.
So let me create a new private endpoint connection.
I'll just give quickly a name what you'll see.
It's creating actually a new network interface in that region.
It will be in your virtual network.
This network interface is kind of your private gateway into your storage account, into basically that
service.
If I click on next.
Okay.
So for our storage account service we can say let us connect that Nic the network interface onto the
blob service for our storage account.
I'll go on next.
Let us put this in our VNet dev Give us network and connect it onto our web, which has our virtual
machines.
You'll also get an Azure Private DNS zone that will link now to the private IP address of that Nic that
is coming in.
Now, as part of that private endpoint, I'll go on to review and create and let's click on create.
While this is being done let us go back onto the network settings.
Let's delete this.
Allow storage and leave the rule for deny traffic.
So deny traffic again onto the internet.
So neither do we have now that kind of service endpoint and all traffic outbound.
Now let me just refresh this entire page.
So all traffic by default.
Now onto that storage server should also be disabled.
We just have that deny rule in place.
Let's wait for the deployment of the private endpoint.
Now, once the deployment is completed, this is a separate resource altogether.
But let's go on to the Azure VM.
Click on Refresh All.
Go on to the storage accounts.
So ideally we should not be able to connect onto the storage account because of that deny outbound rule.
And also because we don't have that service endpoint in place.
But what's kicking in here.
What is access level that's kicking in here in terms of connection is now the private endpoint.
Because you have now that kind of network interface representing the blob service within your virtual
network itself.
Right.
And that is what our VM is connecting to.
If I actually go on to all resources in a new tab we can see a separate network interface.
Now this network interface will be part it's having its own private IP address.
So it's it's like you're bringing the storage, the blob service into your virtual network.
Right.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Azure Storage Service Encryption ---

In this chapter, I briefly just want to go through Azure Storage Encryption.
Since Azure Storage is a critical service in which companies store their data, which could be critical
in nature, encryption at rest is very important.
Now, by default, Azure Storage does use server side encryption to automatically encrypt your data
when it is persisted onto the cloud.
So, for example, if I go on to an existing Azure storage account, there is a section on encryption.
Within encryption we can see that it is already enabled.
We are making use of Azure Storage by default.
Makes use of Microsoft managed keys in its default state.
We can enable support for customer managed keys for blobs and files only.
In this current state, we can select customer managed keys and we can make use of an encryption key
defined in an Azure Key Vault.
So something that we can do now apart from Azure Storage encryption at rest we also have something known
as encryption scopes.
Scopes allow you to manage encryption again with your own encryption key defined in Azure Key Vault.
But this time that key can be scoped onto a container or an individual blob.
So in.
If you do want to use the key for the entire Azure Storage account, because sometimes you might have,
let's say multiple departments in your company, and each department has their own container of data
within Azure Storage, and each department might manage their own encryption key within the key vault.
Hence you can make use of encryption scopes to only.
Hence, you can make use of encryption scopes that only scope a particular encryption key to a particular
container, or even onto a particular blob.
Let's look at an example on just making use of encryption scopes.
Now when it comes on to your keyword.
So you have to make sure that soft delete is enabled.
We have to also enable purge protection.
So if I go on to purge protection I will enable this and click on save.
Something that is required.
We have our existing keyword in place right.
I'll go on to keys and we create a new encryption key.
I'll just give a simple key name and click on create.
Next when it comes onto your Azure Storage account, if I go on to encryption scopes let me click on
add.
I'll give a simple scope name.
I want to make use of customer managed keys.
Let me select my key vault and select my encryption key.
We can also have double encryption in place wherein we also enable infrastructure encryption.
But for now I'll leave it as it is and click on create.
So we're trying to create something known as encryption scope for the Azure Storage Account using one
of our encryption keys that is defined in the Azure Key Vault.
Now you are saying that the operation failed because of an authentication issue.
We are getting this error because Azure Storage, our storage account, is actually not authorized to
use the key vault.
We will need to specifically give Azure Storage the ability to work with the keys in the key vault itself
in order to make this work.
First and foremost, I will open Azure Cloud Shell.
Within the Azure portal, we're going to enable something known as the System Manage Identity for the
storage account.
Basically, we are trying to give an identity to the storage account.
And then in the keyvault we can assign permissions onto this identity.
Then in Azure Cloud Shell to assign an identity to the storage account I'm going to issue the command
of Azure Storage Account update.
I'll give the name of my Azure Storage account along with the resource group name and say please assign
an identity.
Once done in another tab.
Now let me go on access control.
I'll add a role assignment.
Let me search for the keyvault roles.
Rules.
In terms of the keyword rules are choose keyword crypto service encryption.
I'll click on next.
I'll choose Manage Identity and click on Select members.
I should be able to see my storage account now in place.
I'll click on this, click on select go on to review and assign and review and assign accordingly.
All we're doing is we're giving permissions to our storage account to be able to access the encryption
keys in our key vault.
Now, once this is done, let's go back to what we were trying to do earlier on.
Let's go onto encryption.
On to encryption scopes.
Let me try to add a new one using customer managed keys.
Again just give a simple name.
Select my key vault.
Select my key and click on create.
Let's see if the creation goes through now.
Right now it's done.
If I now go on to containers.
If I add a new container let's give a name of script.
Just giving a name of script.
I'm not going to create it.
But if you go on to the advanced section under encryption scope, we can now choose the scope that we
used or we created earlier on.
We can do this while creating a new container.
We can also mention the scope when we upload a blob onto an existing container.
If you want to limit or use encryption keys to encrypt data just specific onto a particular container
or onto a specific blob, we can make use of encryption scopes.

--- What is Microsoft Entra ID ---

Hi and welcome on to the section wherein we're going to be focusing now on the security aspect in terms
of Azure.
In particular, in this section, we're going to be focusing on a service known as Microsoft Enter ID.
We have so far focused on building resources in Azure like Azure VMs, storage accounts, so on and
so forth.
What is Microsoft Azure ID?
So Microsoft Enter ID is it was formerly known as Azure Active Directory.
It is Microsoft's cloud identity and access management service.
It provides the facility of authentication authenticating a user.
When we log into our Azure account, the first thing we do is we enter a username and a password.
We are going through the process of authentication.
This process of authentication is carried out by Microsoft Enter ID Microsoft Enter ID also performs
the act of authorization.
Authorization means that Microsoft enter ID will check that has a user.
Do you have access to resources within an Azure subscription?
See, until now we have been logging in onto our Azure account using Azure Admin credentials.
But normally in an organization, the organization would define multiple users.
Multiple user groups not using Azure Admin account, give permissions to users groups, so on and so
forth to manage resources.
Hence, Microsoft Android is that platform that allows you to define these security based users.
The security based groups assign permissions.
We're going to look at all of this.
So it is your service for providing authentication and authorization.
And please note that Android is not only used to grant access to Azure, it can also be used to grant
access to Microsoft 365 and a variety of other software as a service.
Applications.
So as an example, within Microsoft Android you can define cloud only based users.
You can then assign permissions.
You can group a set of users via the use of security groups.
We can define applications and give permissions.
By default there is a trust.
So when you create your Azure account, you get something known as a tenant and you get an Azure subscription.
The Azure subscription holds all of your resources.
And the tenant the directory holds Microsoft Azure ID.
There is a trust relationship between Microsoft and ID, the tenant, the directory, and your subscription.
That means resources in the subscription can actually trust the entities defined within the directory
itself.
In this chapter, we want to give that kind of quick introduction as part of AZ 104.
We'll go through the important aspects when it comes to using Microsoft Inter ID as a service.

--- Lab - Logging in as the new user ---

In the prior chapter, I've shown you how you can create a new user within Microsoft Android.
So as a company, I said you will start building users that actually map onto users within your organization.
I said you could have IT administrators, individuals who will be responsible for managing the infrastructure
on Azure.
You will create relevant users.
You'll give them the user details, and they will log in and manage the infrastructure accordingly.
In the last chapter, I defined a new user as part of the account.
Let's go ahead and log in as the new user itself.
Before that, I've just opened up all resources the link in a new tab.
If I go onto my subscriptions, go on to the default subscription that I have.
Just want to showcase that this subscription is linked onto the default directory, your default tenant.
And this directory, remember, contains your users, your groups, your applications, so on and so
forth.
In the overview, you will see that it is linked onto the default directory.
Currently within this account.
I don't have any resources in place.
I can now sign in as the new user.
Let me sign in with a different account.
Choose another account.
Let me copy the user principal name.
Place it here.
Click on next.
I have to mention the password that I specified for this user.
And I told you, as part of the default password policy, you would need to update your password.
So I'll mention a new password.
And click on sign in.
Now for all accounts or all user identities that you create.
There is a default security kind of policy in place as part of Microsoft Android, wherein you need
to have an extra level of authentication.
So in addition to your username and password, you might need to use the authenticator app on your mobile
phone.
Or you should opt to receive an SMS or an email on your email address.
This is the next level in the authentication process.
This is used by Microsoft to keep your account secure.
If I click on next.
It will give me the option where I can use the Microsoft Authenticator app.
I can also say I want to set up a different method to you know, the first step is we have to register
what should be the second level of authentication for this new user.
When you're using a free account.
You know.
Sorry.
You know that Microsoft entra ID free.
You might only have the option of using a different authenticator app.
You might not have the option of using a different method.
So for my account for this account, since I have paid licenses, I do have the ability at this point
in time to set up a different method of authentication.
You know the second level.
Let's say I'm not comfortable with using the Microsoft Authenticator app.
I don't want to go through the entire process.
I could just decide to receive a call or a text to sign in with a code.
Let me go through this process first from a more secure perspective, and then for another user later
on, I'll showcase another method that you probably can try to use to have a more seamless login, at
least in the beginning, so you don't have to go through that process of using the authenticator app.
So say yes, I want to get a call or a text to sign in with a code.
So let's mention my phone number and say that I want to receive a code.
By the way, if you are already familiar with using the authenticator app, please go ahead and by all
means use the authenticator app.
I'm just trying to give students various options on.
How to set that second level of authentication.
This is all being done by Microsoft to keep accounts secure.
So in addition to just the first level of authentication, the username and password, we can have a
second level.
So within the all resources we are now logged into this default directory that is our Azure account.
But it's getting an error here in terms of all resources.
Actually we don't have any resources in place.
If I go on to my account in all resources I have nothing in place.
You're just giving some sort of error.
Saying an error occurred when trying to fetch resources.
The underlying API, actually, this is just a permission issue and I'll explain this in the subsequent
chapters.
For now, let's mark an in onto this chapter where in we have logged in as this new user.

--- Lab - Let's deploy some resources ---

Now in the last chapter we logged in as the new user.
Before I can move along, I just want to give a note to students in this Azure account.
You know, in the extra level of authentication, I said by default you might only get the option of
using the authenticator app.
But for me, I have enabled the possibility of using an email or an SMS or a phone call on my mobile
device.
The way that you get these additional options are.
If you go over to Microsoft, enter ID under enter ID if I go on to security.
Under security we have authentication methods.
And we have these different authentication methods in place.
So here I've enabled voice calling and OTP.
We have these additional authentication method policies in place that we can enable right.
For all users or just a section of users.
Okay, now in this chapter, what I want to do is I want to build some resources on Azure because in
the subsequent chapter, I want to go through how do we assign permissions to users to our new users,
using something known as role based access control in order to build our infrastructure?
And don't worry, I'll make this code available.
I'm making use of an ARM template.
I'll just deploy the template in this particular chapter.
I'll use the template deployment within Azure itself.
I'll say let's create a resource based on this template deployment.
I'll build my own template in the editor and let me copy in the template that I have.
And I've copied the template in the beginning of the template.
I have a lot of parameters in terms of the location, the virtual network name, the address space,
so on and so forth.
If I scroll down, let me tell you what exactly I'm trying to do in this particular template.
Well, I'm building multiple virtual machines using the copy kind of block that's available within ARM.
We have seen this.
I'm getting a default of two virtual machines.
If you want you can change this.
You can just make it one.
If you just want to have one machine in place.
I'm making the machines part of an arbitrary set.
So first in resources I am creating a new available set defining an NSG.
I'm not having any sort of.
It's just a default rules.
I'm not setting any specific rules in this NSG.
I'm creating a new virtual network.
I'm making sure that I attach the energy onto the subnet in the virtual network.
I'm creating an internal load balancer for this internal load balancer.
I'm making sure that my machines are part of the backend pool.
I'm creating a very simple load balancing rule, just making sure that traffic on port 80 of the load
balancer is directed onto port 80 of the virtual machines.
Now, please note as part of this template, I am not applying custom script extensions to install anything.
The only purpose of this template is to have resources in place so that we can work with later on,
when it comes on to permissions.
I have network interfaces wherein I am building the name of the network interface based on a VM based
name.
And then finally is a compute machine.
This is based on Ubuntu Server making it part of an available set.
And I'm also defining an Azure Storage account.
I'll click on save.
I have an existing resource group here.
I'll select that one.
Now in terms of the location, actually I think my resource group, if I just go on to another blade,
let me just quickly open the link.
Cannot all resources.
Let me just open resource groups the link in a new tab, I'll sign in as my Azure Admin user.
I just want to check what is the location of the resource group.
Okay, it's defaulting to North Europe.
That's why here it is North Europe.
That is the location of the resource group.
And East US is probably the location within my template.
Then I have all the parameters mentioned here.
I just need to specify an admin password which is of the type secret.
So saying this is already taken I'll try to give a different name.
Now it's fine.
Let me go on to review and create.
And go ahead with the deployment.
I said in the end, I just want to have resources in place because we want to look at something known
as role based access control in the subsequent chapters.
So let me mark it in order this chapter and come back once the deployment is complete.

--- Introduction to Role Based Access Control ---

I've come back.
Deployment is complete.
If I actually go on to all resources within my Azure account, I can see resources such as the availability
set, the load balancer, the virtual machines.
In the other tab wherein I am logged in as a user zero one.
If I refresh this entire page, I'm not able to see the resources as part of my Azure account.
Remember, as part of the account has Azure Admin user, we run a template.
That template has made Azure Resource Manager create resources.
But as user 01I am not able to see anything.
It's giving us that error message where it's saying the user might not have enough permissions.
So by default a new user does not have permissions to, you know, see resources within your account,
let alone interact with them.
In order to give access.
We have to make use of something known as role based access control.
At the heart of role based access control, we have the role definition.
So this is a set of actions that can be performed.
Here I'm giving a JSON representation of one of the inbuilt roles.
The role definition is in JSON format.
You can apply this role or to a security principle.
So your user is based on a security principle.
You can assign roles on to user groups on manage identities as well.
And then you have the scope.
You can apply permissions at either something known as the management group scope that we'll learn a
little bit later on at the subscription level, at the resource group level or at the individual resource
level.
So with the help of role based access control we can assign permissions.
So as an example you might create a group of users who are responsible for managing Azure virtual machines.
You would give or assign the adequate role onto the group of users who can manage the machines accordingly.
In the next set of chapters, we are going to go through extensive exercises on how to work with roles
defined in Microsoft Android.

--- Lab - Role-based assignments - Resource level ---

In this chapter.
Let's start with looking at assigning a role to a user at the resource level.
We can assign roles at either the individual resource level.
Right.
So we could assign a role or give permissions onto let's say a virtual machine.
We can assign permissions at the resource group level.
If we do assign permissions at the resource group level to a user, it will apply onto all resources
within the resource group.
You can apply permissions at a subscription level.
If you do this, it applies on all resource groups within the subscription.
So roles are inherited in nature.
And there's one more level on top of that.
We'll learn this later on.
That's known as management groups.
In this chapter let's start simple.
Let's look at assigning a role at an individual resource level.
Let's assign a role to our user zero one at the virtual machine level.
Now what is very important is refer to the Microsoft documentation on the roles that we're going to
be working with.
There are many built in roles available.
The overarching roles that are present are.
We have something known as the contributor role.
This grants full access to manage all resources, but does not allow you to assign roles in Azure Rbac.
We'll see this later on.
We have the owner role.
This grants full access to manage all resources.
So you should always give that bit a little bit of um, you know when you're assigning permissions you
should always give it based on least privilege, only what the user needs to perform in terms of actions.
That's the role that you should give.
So don't kind of give owner Permissions to everyone.
Give it to your global kind of administrators, who need to have an overarching view and management
of resources within your subscription via the User Access Administrator role.
This allows you to manage user access to Azure resources, and we have the reader role apart from all
of these overarching roles.
You also have roles at each individual service level.
So for example, for compute for virtual machines we have individual roles for storage accounts.
We have individual roles.
We'll be looking at roles specific to storage accounts later on and virtual machines.
For now let's look at that overarching roles.
Let's start with the basic reader role.
Now I'll click on the reader role.
This will take you on to the documentation.
You.
It's telling you okay in terms of actions.
So a role is made up of actions.
What actions do you want to permit for this particular user?
Why this role?
For this in-built role?
It gives complete read permissions over resources.
We will see the JSON description.
So in the JSON description for this role what's very important is in terms of permissions in terms of
the actions that are allowed.
Your star means that all resources slash the read permission.
These data actions pertain to services like Azure Storage that actually contains data.
We have the name.
We have the ID of the role definition.
What is the description and the assignable scopes?
At which scope are you assigning the permission?
Now the Azure admin I will go on to my virtual machines.
Let me go on to anyone.
Let's go on to example VM dev web one.
We have to go on to access control.
And within access control I can add something known as a role assignment.
When we add a role assignment, we get a screen in which we can now assign a role onto a user.
So we have these inbuilt roles in place.
We have the job function roles and we have the privilege admin roles like the owner, the contributor,
the user access administrator, so on and so forth.
I'll go for the job function role.
I'll click on the reader role.
Click on next.
We can assign this role onto a user, a group, a service principal or something known as a managed
identity.
I will select a filter on user group or service principal.
I'll click on select members.
I should see the members within my directory I can search for user zero one.
I'll click on the user.
Click on select.
Go on to next.
There are no conditions.
We'll go to conditions later on in the review and assign.
We are assigning the reader role at the scope of the virtual machine.
If we look at the scope, we have the subscription along with its ID, the resource groups, along with
the name of the group itself.
In terms of the providers, we are giving it to a virtual machine.
We're giving it to user zero one.
The reader role I'll click on review and Assign.
Again, these actions of role based access control will also work for your Microsoft and ID free base
account.
It will work.
That should not be a problem.
You know, it's only later on when we start working with licenses.
That's where the issue is going to arise when it comes on to working with features like self-service
password reset where you do need a license in place.
So what we've done is we have assigned something known as a role.
That role has permissions.
We are giving the reader permission to user zero one over the virtual machine under access control.
If you want to look at the existing role assignments, just go onto the Role assignment tab.
Now myself as the owner, I've been assigned many roles.
This has been inherited from my subscription, my management group.
But what's important for you is you can see user zero one has been given the reader role over this particular
resource.
That is a virtual machine going on to the other tab wherein I am logged in as user zero one.
Let me refresh this entire page.
And now I can see my virtual machine.
Only the machine.
Okay, if I click on the machine itself, what you'll notice is you will not be able to see the virtual
network because you don't have access to the virtual network.
If this machine did have a public IP address that, remember, is a separate resource.
Even that also you will not be able to see.
All you have is the reader permission to view the properties of the virtual machine.
Can you perform an operation of, let's say, stopping the machine?
Let's try this out.
We're getting an error because we do not have the right permissions.
So let's mark an in onto this chapter where in we have looked at our first sort of assignment for roles,
we've given a role to a user over a resource.

--- Lab - Role-based assignments - Resource group level ---

Now in the prior chapter, we had looked at giving the reader role to a user at the resource level as
the Azure Admin.
Now let me go on to my entire resource group.
And for this group, let me go on access control.
Let's now assign a role at the resource group level.
Let me add a role assignment.
Let's do the same thing.
Let's add the same reader role onto our member, our user.
So I can filter on user zero one.
Select the user.
Click on select something known as.
Now an assignment type in the assignment type.
This could come up if you have access to Microsoft Entra Privilege Identity Management.
For me, I will choose this as an active role, a permanent.
I'll go on to next and let me perform a review and assign.
So what I'm doing is at the resource group level, I'm assigning the role of the reader role onto this
particular user.
In the other tab, I am logged in as user zero one.
It does take time to refresh, but after some time you should be able to see all resources.
Let me just wait for a minute.
Now, after just a few moments when I click on refresh has user zero one, I can now see my resources
in place so we can now view all of them.
If I go on to VM dev web one now, I should be able to see the virtual network.
I don't see a public IP address because I don't believe as part of my template I deployed a public IP
address.
But now I definitely can see the virtual network because has user.
Now I do have permissions over reading the details of the virtual network.
Can I stop the machine?
Is it possible?
Still no, because we only have the reader permissions.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Role-based assignments - Contributor Role ---

Now in this chapter let's look at another role.
We look at assigning the contributor role to our user at the resource group level.
And let's see what changes this brings about in terms of permissions.
So if we look at the inbuilt roles and look at the contributor role, what you'll notice is in terms
of actions, there's a lot now that's available.
So we have the ability to create and manage now all types of resources.
But the only thing is that there are some actions that are still not allowed.
Like for example deleting roles policy assignments so on and so forth.
If I scroll down, you will see in terms of actions, it's a complete star.
That means we are allowed all actions, but there are still some things we cannot do as a contributor.
But that's fine.
Okay, let me go on to how the Azure Admin for the resource group, let me add a role assignment.
Now note that you can have multiple roles assigned for the same user, at either the same scope or at
a different scope.
It's possible, so you can have multiple permissions that are assigned onto a particular user.
Currently we all have.
Currently we already have the reader role assigned to the user.
Now I'll go on to the privilege admin roles.
Select the contributor role.
Click on next.
Select my members in terms of the members, let me again search for user zero one.
Click on select go on next.
Again in the assignment type.
If this is not coming up, it's fine.
Go on to review and assign.
I'll just click on active.
That means I want the role to be assigned right now itself.
Go on to review and assign.
So what I'm doing is we are now having multiple roles assigned onto the user if I go onto role assignments.
So I can see in terms of this particular resource that is the resource group.
User zero one has been assigned both the reader role and the contributor role.
Now obviously the contributor role has much more permissions than the reader.
So what do you think is going to be the ultimate effect of both of these permissions?
Well, in the end it's basically an addition of all permissions.
So since a contributor role has more actions that are allowed in terms of resource, the user in the
end is going to have the ultimate contributor role on all resources within the resource group.
Going on to another tab has user zero one.
Let me click on refresh.
So now for VM dev web one.
Can we stop the machine.
So it seems that this is possible.
Right.
It's done.
If I go on to all resources, if I go on to, let's say, my load balancer as part of the load balancer.
Let me go on to the load balancing rules.
Let me see if I can just change something within the rule.
Since I am not making much use of this, you know, I'll just change the rule to a different backend
port number.
Click on save.
I want to see as a contributor what all I can do.
You know, I should be able to isolate, manage all resources within the resource group.
And also note that you should be able to even create a new resource as part of the resource group.
If I go on to, let's say storage accounts, if I click on create, let me just take this name.
Quickly click on create.
I'll select my existing resource group.
Now in case if you can't see it, just go ahead and refresh on the entire page.
Uh, just give a different name of, let's say, test in East US.
We should be able to go ahead and actually create a new resource in the resource group.
If I go on to review and create, the validation should succeed, and we should be able to go ahead
with the creation of the resource within the resource group itself.
So we've looked at kind of two overarching roles of the reader and the contributor role.
Obviously from an organization perspective, they will look at assigning roles based on the least privilege.
You're the contributor role is giving a lot of power to a user, wherein it's able to manage all resources
within the resource group.
It's also giving the permissions for the user to create new resources as well.
We have to be very careful when we kind of give these overarching roles to users, right.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter.

--- Lab - Role-based assignments - User Access Administrator Role ---

Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter I want to now go through the User Access Administrator role.
So this allows you to manage user access on Azure based resources.
Here you will see that you do have the ability to first of all read the control plane.
That means all resources within that particular scope.
We can also manage authorization and create and update support tickets.
Let's say that you want to delegate access to an administrator.
That administrator needs to have the ability to actually assign permissions to other users.
See, what we are doing is has the Azure admin.
We are granting access to multiple users.
But it cannot be that every time you know what can it be that every time the Azure administrator needs
to assign permissions, we can delegate that responsibility of assigning permissions to certain users,
so we can create certain global users who have the sort of global permissions.
They can then assign the fine grained permissions onto other users.
For this, the overarching role is a user access administrator role.
What I've done is as part of my diagram I'm just saying.
So these are my users.
Obviously I've created a very simple user user zero one.
Let me continue with that and just create another user as user zero two.
But you can have naming conventions define for your user identities in Microsoft Android.
What we'll do is let's create a new user within Android user zero two.
Then has user zero one.
Can we assign now a role?
So instead of the Azure admin assigning a role can user zero one Assign a role onto user zero two.
So first and foremost has the Azure Admin.
Let me go on to Microsoft Android.
Click on all users and all users.
Let me add or create a new user user zero two.
Place it here.
Let's create my own password.
We probably will not log in with this user.
Let me directly go on to review and create and create the user.
Right?
We can see the user in place.
Okay.
Now what I'm trying to say is has user zero one.
Currently what we have is we have that kind of contributor access onto our resource group.
If I go on to the resource group itself Has user zero one.
Can I now assign access?
Why the use of role based access control?
Well, we can see that it's disabled.
We are not able to do so as user zero one in order to make this work.
Let me go on to the resource groups here.
Let me assign another role.
So going on access control let's now assign the role of.
I'll again go on to the privileged admin roles the user Access Administrator role.
Or click on next.
Again select my members of user zero one, not user zero two.
It's user zero one.
I said I want delegate access.
Now we have these conditions in place, since we are kind of selecting a privileged role in terms of
permissions.
It's saying what can this user do with this particular role?
Do you just want to allow the user to assign selected roles onto other users, or do you want the user
to assign all roles except some privileged ones, or do you want to allow user to assign all roles?
It depends on you what exactly you want.
Let me choose the second option just to have one condition in place in the assignment type.
Again, I'll mark it as active.
Go on to review and assign.
And you know give this role assignment to this user to user zero one.
It does take time for roles to take effect.
If you don't see it immediately just wait for a minute or two.
So I still cannot add that role assignment.
I said it sometimes takes time.
Sometimes you might also need to kind of log out and log in.
But now I can see that I can add role assignment.
So now as user 01I should be able to add a role assignment.
So in the role assignment I can for example select the reader role go to.
Next select my members this time as user zero two and then assign the role accordingly.
So for us we just have few users.
So it's fine as the Azure admin to assign these permissions.
But when you start having thousands and thousands of users within an organization, you would need to
delegate access to other administrators to be able to assign these permissions.
But in this chapter, I want to go through the user Access Administrator role that you have in Microsoft
Azure ID.

--- Lab - Role assignments for Azure Storage Accounts ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through specific roles that's available for Azure Storage.
We have looked at the overarching roles, but I told you in most cases you will not provide that sort
of access to your users.
There are specific roles that are available for specific services.
And by the way, you can also create your own custom roles as well.
In this chapter, I want to focus on Azure Storage.
So I do have an Azure Storage account in place.
If I go on to the privilege.
Sorry if I go on to the built in roles.
Let me go onto storage.
Let me show all of the roles.
We have these very specific roles for storage blob when it comes onto the blob service.
We have it even for the file service.
The queue service and the table service.
Let's focus on the blob service.
If I go on to the storage blob data reader role.
This gives the permission to read and list Azure storage containers and blobs.
Very important Azure storage containers and blobs.
If I scroll down, you will note that yes, we do have the actions of being able to read the containers.
We now have data actions also in place.
And in terms of data actions we are able to read the blobs.
There is also the storage blob data contributor role.
This allows you to read, write and delete Azure storage containers and blobs.
If I scroll down so we can see we have that extended actions.
And also under data actions we have the ability to not only read, but we can write and delete blobs
for the storage blob.
So this is I believe this is for the storage blob data contributor.
We also have the storage blob data owner.
This provides full access to Azure storage blobs and containers.
Now I want to showcase an example on how we can work with these permissions.
First of all has the Azure admin.
Let me go on to my resource groups.
Let me remove the current roles that are given onto user zero one.
I'll go onto access Control and under access control.
When it comes on to the role assignments, it's always good to go ahead and clean up your role assignments
once you are done.
I will click on the three roles that I've assigned in the earlier chapters and click on the delete button.
Are you sure you want to remove the selected role assignments I will click on.
Yes.
So we are removing these role assignments.
So now what's done after some time again has user zero one.
You will not be able to see any resources within your Azure account.
I want to give the specific permission now just to my Azure storage account.
So for Azure Storage account let me go on to it.
This also has access control.
Let me add a role assignment.
In the role assignment let's target the blob role.
Let's choose the storage blob data reader role.
Click on.
Next I will select the members of user zero one.
Click on select.
Go on to.
Next.
There are All conditions will go through this in the next chapter.
For now, I won't add any conditions.
I'll go on to review and assign.
And again, as a note, all of this is still possible with your Microsoft and IDE free based licenses.
So what we've done is we have added a role now for the user to be able to read the blobs within the
storage account or click on refresh.
And now you will see that I only have that permission at the VM level.
It's fine, we can leave it as it is.
This is at a resource level.
I now want to access the storage account from Azure Storage Explorer has user one.
Now please note that in order for the user to view the containers.
Now what does that role do?
That role gives read access to your storage containers and blobs, but not to the actual storage account.
So in order for the user to see the storage account within Azure Storage Explorer, I will add another
role to the user.
Add the storage account level.
Here I'll choose to add a role assignment.
In the role assignment I will select the normal reader role.
Click on next.
Select my members user zero one.
Click on select.
Go on to review and assign and review and assign this accordingly.
See what I want is has user zero one to be able to first of all view the storage account and then within
the storage account.
Why the storage blob that you know that the data reader role.
I want to be able to read the data.
I'll open up Azure Storage Explorer on my local machine.
We've already seen how to work with this earlier on.
Let me connect onto Azure Storage and this time I'll choose a subscription.
This will now allow you to sign in onto Azure to access storage.
In the early chapters, we had looked at using the access key using shared access signatures.
This is a more secure way where in we are now using the identity of the user defined in Microsoft Android.
I will click on subscription.
Choose Azure.
Click on next.
It will ask me to authenticate myself.
I will select user zero one.
So it's saying we are authenticated.
Going on to Azure Storage Explorer.
So we are now signed in or click on close.
I've selected my subscription.
I'll click on Open Explorer and under this now I can see my Azure subscription.
And I can see my storage account.
I can see my blob containers.
Actually I don't have any containers in place.
Right.
Because we've not added anything.
Let's do one thing quickly.
Let's add.
A container.
On to the storage account.
Just give a simple name.
Let's see if I have anything on my local machine that we can upload onto this container.
And I'm able to just upload a simple PowerShell script file.
I just want to make sure that.
Yeah, let me click on View All.
Now I can see my script's container.
And within this I have my file.
If I try to delete this file so I'll select the option of delete, right click on my mouse and select
delete.
This should not work because of the permissions of only the blob data reader.
Right.
It's not working as expected, right?
So in this chapter, I want to go through a role that's available at a service level.
This time it was the storage account level.

--- Lab - Role Assignment conditions ---

Now, in this chapter I want to go through Azure Attribute Based Access Control.
This is something that is available on top of role based access control.
Here we can define access based on certain attributes.
So when it comes onto role based access control we have roles that are overarching in nature.
At the same time we have roles that are specific onto specific services.
On top of that, if we want to have more fine grained control over the permissions given, we can make
use of attribute based access control.
Now, please note that this is only available for certain services.
For example, when it comes on Azure Storage, we have it for the blob service.
To look at an example on how this works in the tab wherein I'm logged in has the Azure admin.
I'll just go on to my existing storage account.
I'll create a new container.
So I'll just name this as code.
Click on create.
And within this code container I'll upload that same file.
So it is the same setup PowerShell script file.
But now I just have two containers within my storage account.
So in Azure Storage Explorer if I click on refresh all.
Under my storage accounts I should see both containers in place code and scripts I should be able to
access both containers.
Now let's look at an example of attribute based access control.
Remember earlier on we had given a permission to this you know, to user zero one.
If I go on to role assignments let me go and just hide this for the moment.
For user zero one, when it comes onto the storage blob data reader role, we have the ability to now
add conditions.
Let me click on add.
In adding the role assignment condition we can choose the visual approach.
Or if we have JSON code already in place to assign the condition, we can do that as well.
I'll go with the visual approach.
Scroll down.
We can add now various conditions.
If I add one condition wherein we look at the different, you know, based on the blob, this current
blob data reader role, I want to give the permissions based on the current role, wherein the user
can list the blobs and read a blob.
This is fine.
I'll leave this as it is.
Please note that if you choose another role for which attribute you know rules are made available,
you will see different permissions.
Since ours is based on the storage blob data reader role, we have these actions in place.
But now based on that actions based on this condition, let me go ahead and add an expression.
Okay.
Now base this on different attributes.
Let me base it on the resource itself.
And in the attribute we have the account name.
The container name.
Let me choose a container name.
I'll say if the container is equal to.
So the string equals to scripts.
And let me click on save.
So in the end what I'm saying is.
When you assign this role on to a user, if I just click on View Edit again and this time just choose
code.
What I'm saying is Along with this role, you need to check if the container equals scripts only, then
write the user.
So the user should only be able to see the scripts container.
We are specifying more fine grained control when it comes on to storage blob.
So now within Azure Storage Explorer if I click on Refresh all I'll just close this under the storage
account.
If I expand my blob containers, if I go on to the code container sometimes it takes time.
Let me try this again.
I'll click on Refresh all.
So now I can see I'm getting an error saying that this request is not authorized to perform this operation
because of a permission issue.
So on top of role based access control, again, this is only for certain roles, mainly with the blob
service role.
We can have these extra conditions in place based on attribute based access control.

--- Lab - Role assignments for Azure virtual machines - Preparation ---

Fine.
Welcome back.
Now I want to go through some roles that are available at the virtual machine level.
In order to do this, I'm going to deploy a new machine onto my infrastructure.
This will be based on Windows Server.
The reason I didn't do this as part of my ARM template was I said to save on costs, just to have some
simple ubuntu based machines in place.
You can have it based on the free services eligibility.
I said I just want to have resources in place to look at role based access control.
But now I want to go through roles at a virtual machine level.
And for this I specifically want to make use of Windows Server.
Hence, let me go on to virtual machines and let's deploy a new machine.
We already know we are already familiar with how this works.
I'll select my existing resource group.
Just give a machine name.
This would be in east US.
No infrastructure based on Windows Server 2025 data center.
I'll change the size onto something that has a higher number of virtual CPUs and an amount of memory.
Let's give a username and password.
Go on to next for the disk networking.
Leave it as part of our default virtual network.
I'm going to make sure that there is a new public IP address in place for this machine.
By default.
As part of my ARM template deployment, there is a shared network security group, so we can leave it
as none for the network NSG over here.
Go on to next for management.
Now under management, what I'm going to enable is this.
Login with Microsoft.
Enter ID as part of the rules for virtual machines.
I want to look at a rule that we can assign onto a user.
See.
I now want to, you know, instead of logging in as the admin that we specify for our machine like app
admin, I now want to log in as a user defined in Microsoft Enter ID.
In order to make this work, we have to make sure that we enable this so that we can make use of identities
in Microsoft, enter ID to log onto the machine.
So making sure this is enabled and by default it will also enable something known as a system um assigned
managed identity.
Then I'll just go ahead and create the machine.
Or create the machine.
Now what I'll do is I'll wait for the deployment to complete just as part of this chapter.
I want to have one setting configured on the VM.
Before we proceed on to the next chapter at looking at using Microsoft, enter ID identities to log
in.
So I'll wait and come back until I have the machine in place.
This could take a little bit of time because you know that enablement of Microsoft enter ID, it actually
installs an extension on the machine.
That extension is what registers the machine with Microsoft Enter ID.
So let me come back once I have the machine in place.
And also I will log in as the normal app admin, the normal administrator for the machine.
So I've come back, I have the virtual machine in place.
And by the way I've already connected to the machine, but if you are following along, make sure that
if I go on to the machine itself, go on to the network settings in my ARM template.
I told you that I don't have any sort of custom rules.
Hence, I have just added an NSG rule to allow traffic from the internet onto the virtual network.
Just to make it simple on port 3389.
This allows me to remote desktop onto the machine.
So what I've done is I have logged in as app admin, the normal administrator credentials for the machine.
This is only our prep work for the next chapter, in which we're going to look at roles available at
the virtual machine level.
Here I need to go on to the local server and under local server I have to choose this remote desktop
option.
Just disable this.
Allow connections only from computers running Remote desktop.
Network level authentication.
I'll click on apply and click on okay.
I'll close the session.
Let's mark an end to this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Role assignments for Azure virtual machines - Implementation ---

Right.
So now in this chapter, I want to look at roles when it comes on to virtual machines.
I'll go on to the Azure built in roles when it comes on to compute.
I'll just scroll down just to understand the roles available at the virtual machine layer.
If I go onto virtual machine user login.
So this allows a user or this permission gives the user to view virtual machines and login has a regular
user.
If you need to login as an administrator onto the machine, we have the virtual machine administrator
login role.
So now instead of users using the normal admin username and password for the machine, you can assign
them these roles and they can log in onto the machine accordingly.
There's also the virtual machine role.
This allows you to create and manage virtual machines, manage the underlying disks, install and run
software.
There, you can reset the password of the root user using VM extensions and manage again local user
accounts, but only using VM extensions.
Okay, just to try these roles out, what I'll do is let me go on to access control.
So this is for VM dev web zero three.
I want to add a role assignment.
The role assignment that I want to add is.
I want to search for the virtual machine roles.
Specifically let's choose the virtual machine user login role.
I'll click on next.
Let me select the members in terms of the members.
Let me search for user zero one.
Click on select.
Before I do a review and assign.
So what I'm doing is for user zero one, I'm assigning the virtual machine user login role for this
particular virtual machine that is based on Windows Server 2025.
But before I do this.
Let me go to my downloads folder wherein I have the remote desktop file for VM dev web zero three.
I'll show it in the folder.
I need to change this remote desktop file in such a way that we can actually login using Microsoft enter
IT credentials.
I will right click and say to open this file in not Remote Desktop Connection.
Yes, it is an RDP connection file, but let me open up a notepad.
So notepad we can see some aspects in place.
First is the entire public IP address.
And yes, we want to connect onto port 3389.
Then we have something known as prompt for credentials.
Here I'll mark this as zero.
I want to say that let us not prompt for any credentials.
Instead let me put the entire username here itself.
So here the username that's being shown is app admin.
This is the default administrator username.
And then we enter the password.
But this time around I'm going to put the username as slash Azure AD.
By the way Microsoft Azure ID was known as Azure Active Directory early on.
So there are still some references onto Azure AD.
And let me put in what is the complete.
User principal name.
So if I go on to user zero one what is the complete user principal name?
I'll place it here.
So we want now to log in not via app admin, but to log in via the Microsoft and ID credentials.
I'm going to replace this particular line with something known as the domain.
We're putting it as Azure AD.
This gives now support for Microsoft Android based sessions.
This disables that network level authentication.
And here we have the server level authentication.
Let me save this.
And then going back onto the downloads folder let me double click on this Remote Desktop connection
file.
Click on connect.
I'll click on yes in the subsequent screen.
And now we're connecting all to the machine.
We are logging in via user zero one.
Let me enter the password.
And the error message we get here area is your account is configured to prevent you from using this
device.
So I'll click on okay for now.
By adding the role assignment.
Now let me go on to review and assign.
This will give us the permission to actually log on to the machine.
Okay.
While this role is taking effect we do have that other user in place.
Let me go on to my resource group, this time in the resource group under access control.
Let me add a role assignment.
For the role assignment.
Let me again search for the virtual machine.
Let me choose the virtual machine contributor role that allows us to manage virtual machines.
I'll click on next.
Select my members.
This time let me search for user zero two.
Let me select this user.
Click on select in the assignment type, make it active.
Go on to review and assign and review and assign accordingly.
So I'm giving a different role on to another user.
This is the virtual machine contributor role.
I'll just make sure that in another tab I log in has user.
I'm just going to make sure that in another tab.
Let me sign in has user zero two.
So choose another account.
Log in as user zero two.
Click on next.
I just want to make sure that I change the password.
I'll just perform that act for now.
Obviously it might ask me to keep my account secure.
What I'll do is I'll just cancel from this.
I just want to kind of change the password.
That's it.
Okay.
Now let me try to log in onto the machine again.
As user zero one.
So as user zero one let me put in the password.
And now what you'll see is you'll be able to log on to the virtual machine itself.
We are now using our Microsoft Android credentials.
As user zero two.
Now in order to look at how to manage machines.
So they we've given the virtual machine contributor role.
rule.
In case if you do want to use that extra authentication method, one thing that you can do that is also
available in your Microsoft Android free account.
If I go on to my users and user zero two here for the user, I'll go onto the authentication methods.
I will add an authentication method.
I'll choose a method of a temporary access pass, and let's keep it for three hours and click on add.
What this will do is this will give you a temporary password that you can use to log in onto the Azure
account with this user credential.
I said this is in case if you don't want to use that method of having a secondary level of authentication,
you know, just to have a quick win in terms of logging in, I don't know for how long they'll enable
this temporary access pass feature, but at the moment this is present.
So we can use this, I believe now till 328 at my current time.
So let's do one thing.
Let me open all resources the link in a new tab.
Let me sign in as user zero two.
This should now prompt me for the temporary access pass, so I can copy this onto the clipboard and
paste it here.
Click on next and then I should be logged in.
And once I log in as user two, based on the role of the virtual machine contributor role, we can now
manage different aspects about the virtual machine.
So you can actually try this out if you actually go on to your disk.
You should be able to create and attach a new disk user zero one cannot do this because that is only
the login permission, the login privilege.
The contributor role gives this particular user the ability to create and attach a new disk, but then
user zero two cannot log in or to the machine using their Microsoft Enter ID credentials, so the roles
serve different purposes.
In this chapter, we want to kind of go through the virtual machine role assignments.
Now, if you are following along, what you can do is you can kind of delete this machine VM dev web
zero three and its linked resources.
So I can do is, you know, I do need some resources later on.
Not right now.
We're going to be looking at other aspects.
But when it comes onto slide further on chapters I do need some resources in place.
So I'll keep them as they are.
But when it comes onto I said VM dev web zero three, I can probably go ahead and delete those resources.

--- Lab - Custom Roles ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the concept that you can add your own custom rules when
it comes to role based access control.
Now for this, I will go on to my resource group and within the group, let me go on access control
here.
Within access control, we can not only add a role assignment, we can also add a custom role.
But for adding the custom role, we need to first of all define the role.
Let me give a role name.
So let's say I'm creating a role that gives the permission to start and stop machines we could clone
from an existing role.
That's something that you can do.
We can start from scratch or we can start from Jason.
Let me start from scratch.
Click on next.
We can now assign or add permissions onto this role.
When you click on Add Permissions, you are going to see, first of all, a lot of services on offer.
Each service has their own permissions.
If I search for compute and go on to Microsoft Compute in this also, we have so many permissions.
If I go onto the permissions of, let's say virtual machines.
I'll just scroll down.
I mean we'll see permissions for virtual machine scale sets.
So for virtual machines I mean just as an example let me put the read permission and click on add.
This permission is now added.
I'll click on next.
So we are assigning it onto the scope of.
We're just creating the role.
We are assigning it.
But we're creating the role at a resource group level.
If I click on next, we have the JSON aspect wherein we have what is the name of the role.
It is basically available at the scope of the resource group.
And in terms of permissions these are the permissions.
I'm going to add more permissions.
I'm going to click on edit and add more permissions here okay.
So I'm adding permissions for start Deallocate power off so on and so forth.
Make sure to click on save to save these changes.
Go on to next and let's create our custom role.
If I click on refresh and actually go on to role assignments just to understand okay.
For user zero one, what are the roles that we have.
So at a resource group level we don't have any roles available for user zero one.
Is that the case?
Which I can see.
Yes, we already have it for user zero two.
Let me go on to machine that I have in the running state.
Let me go on to VM dev web two.
On to access control.
In terms of the role assignment I don't check for user zero one.
Okay.
No permission.
Let me add a role assignment in the type.
Let me filter on custom roles.
I can see my VM start stop operator role.
I'll click on next.
Let me select user zero one.
Click on select here.
See just to confirm here I am logged in as user zero one.
Let me refresh the entire page.
Let's go on to virtual machines and try to stop the machine.
So I can't even see BMW's web two, so I'm not able to even see the machine.
So let's go ahead and assign this role to the user, and let's just wait for a minute or two.
So after waiting for a minute as user zero one, let me refresh this entire page.
Right now I can see the machine.
If I go on to it, can I go ahead and stop the machine based on this role?
Now what's happening is I'm getting an error.
It's saying that we cannot deallocate the machine.
We probably might need to give permission at the resource group level because as per our custom role,
you will see that we've also given the read permission for the network interfaces and even the public
IP address, because when you stop and deallocate the virtual machine, it's also making a change,
if any.
Currently for this machine, I don't have a public IP address, but then it will shut down the machine.
That means there will be a change to the network interface hence.
Now let me go on to.
Resource groups and assign that permission that role at a resource group level.
This just to get you all to understand the assignment of roles at different levels.
So I'll go and add the role assignment.
We'll do it at the resource group level.
Now choose our custom role again that same VM start stop operator.
Select the member of user zero one.
Let me do a active assignment.
Go on to review and assign.
And again, let me just wait for a minute or two.
Right.
Once done has user zero one.
Let's click on refresh just to make sure that we take the changes.
So now as user one I clicked on stop for the virtual machine.
And now it is in the process of stopping the machine itself.
So we do have the capability of creating our own custom roles and assigning it on to users.
Now let's perform a cleanup.
What I'll do is let me go on to.
The resource group.
Okay.
First let me go on to the virtual machine.
This for VM dev.
Web two access control.
Role assignments here for the role assignment of user zero one for this resource.
I'll delete this assignment.
Okay.
Then I'll go on to my resource groups.
Go on to the group itself.
Let's remove the role assignment from here as well.
So we'll go on to role assignments.
And let's delete that role assignment.
And finally when we want to clean up our role we can go on to roles here.
This is under the resource group in the type.
Let's put in the custom role.
I'll select the role itself and click on delete.
So I'm just making sure that we perform a cleanup in order to perform the cleanup.
We first need to ensure that we remove the roles that we assign earlier on.
And then we can delete the custom role.

--- Microsoft Entra ID Roles ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give an introduction onto Microsoft entra based roles.
We have looked at Azure role based access control.
This controls the permissions to your Azure resources.
So we can assign different inbuilt roles to our users, groups etc. at different scopes.
There are also roles available built in directory roles for Microsoft Android.
This controls what users can do.
Ah in Android perspective.
See for Microsoft Android there's a lot that you can do.
So this itself is a separate service in which you can manage users, you can manage groups, you can
manage external identities, you can manage rules and administrators.
So again, you don't want the burden of managing all of this to leave it to the Azure admin itself.
You might want to delegate access to other users within your organization.
So within Microsoft Android again we have different inbuilt roles.
For example we have the admin role.
This manage all aspects when it comes onto Microsoft 365 Copilot and all AI related enterprise services.
Similarly, we have a lot of inbuilt roles when it comes onto.
I said this is just for Microsoft Android.
In the next chapter, let's look at an example on using one of these roles.

--- Lab -Microsoft Entra ID Roles ---

Right.
In this chapter, I want to give an example on using a Microsoft entra ID based rule in this tab, wherein
I am logged in as user zero one.
We've already looked at Azure role based access control, but now let me go on to Microsoft.
Entra ID has a service I said in the context of user zero one.
Here, let me try to add or create a new user.
So let me give in.
Let's say user three give the same detail here.
You know it's giving an error saying that the display name is required.
But I am giving the display name here.
So this error, you know, even if I go on to review and create it's giving this validation fail.
This validation error is just coming because user zero one does not have permissions from a Microsoft
Android perspective.
So let's say that we want to delegate the sort of control over users onto a particular user.
Global user in your organization.
What I can do is has the Azure admin user.
Let me go on to users.
I'll go onto user zero one.
For user zero one.
There's something known as assigned roles.
Currently no role has been assigned to this user.
I'll click on Add Assignments.
And now we have those different inbuilt Microsoft Android based roles.
Let me search for the role of the user administrator.
So this is at the scope of the directory.
This for user zero one.
I'll click on next.
I'll make this an active assignment.
And just give a reason justification and click on assign.
I'm now assigning a specific Microsoft Entra ID based role onto this user.
Let me click on refresh for creating the user.
Let me put in the display name.
I'll just go on to review and create and see if we can now create this user.
And yes, now this is possible.
This is only possible because we have assigned that particular role of Microsoft.
Enter ID you know, to that particular user.
I want to give this quick chapter, this quick example on using roles inbuilt roles in Microsoft Entra
ID.

--- Note - Microsoft Entra ID Custom Roles ---

Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter, I just briefly want to give the note that we do have the ability to create our own
custom role as well.
For this custom role.
We do need you know, this does not work when it comes onto Microsoft and ID free base licenses.
For this, we do need a premium based license in place.
We will be covering licenses shortly, but I just want to let you all know that this is not possible.
You cannot create this new custom role.
So here if I go on to the roles and administrators.
So these are the inbuilt roles when it comes to Microsoft.
Enter ID here itself we can assign roles onto users.
But we also have the ability to create a new custom role.
This will not be available for your tenant if it is based on Microsoft.
Enter ID free based licenses, and when you create a new custom role, it's the same thing.
We give permissions, we can start from scratch or we can clone a existing custom role.
We cannot clone an existing inbuilt role.
We can start from scratch or clone a custom role.
Right?
In this chapter, I want to give this a quick note when it comes onto Microsoft Android custom based
roles.

--- Microsoft Entra ID - Inviting external identities ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to go through the concept of inviting external identities onto Microsoft
Android.
In Microsoft Android we have seen how we could define users.
We have seen how we could give access via the use of role based access control onto resources within
our Azure subscription.
At the same time, you can also give access to users to perform specific tasks within Microsoft Android.
There is this concept wherein when you create a new user, you can invite an external user.
This is actually Microsoft entrance way of letting people who sit outside your tent, maybe outside
your organization.
You want to give them temporary access to resources within your account.
Maybe there is an audit that needs to be conducted and users are defined in another tenant in another
Microsoft account, or this could be with another external provider.
You can instead of creating new identities in your tenant, you know, based on your domain ID, you
can just invite those external users who sit outside your tenant.
Now, as an example, I do have an Outlook.com account.
You can actually create a free account just to showcase how we can invite an external identity.
Let me go ahead and just sign in with that account, those credentials.
So this is our Outlook.com.
So just to showcase that external identity, I've gone ahead and logged in with that account.
details aren't Outlook.com.
Users.
Let me go ahead and invite an external user.
Let me give the entire external email ID.
Give the display name.
There is another invite redirect URL.
What this does is this actually brings you on to a separate page that Microsoft has when it comes on
to showing all applications that a user has access to.
Let me go on to review and invite and invite the user accordingly.
Now once we do invite the user.
So yes, there will be details of the user that will also be recorded here within your tenant.
But at the same time, I've also received an email invitation.
Let me go ahead and accept the invitation.
Not saying that by default there are some permissions that my tenant wants in order for the user to
log in.
This is to receive the profile data, collect and log any sort of activity, and use the profile data
and activity data.
I'll go ahead and click on accept.
And actually once I'm done I said you are taken on to.
So let me log in as exam user.
You are taken on to something known as an APS dashboard by the use of my applications dot Microsoft.com.
But you can also log on to the Azure account has this external identity.
And then you can go ahead and assign permissions via the use of role based access control.
And even if you want but you probably will not do that.
But the roles available in Microsoft enter ID in this chapter, I want to just showcase that you do
have the capability of actually inviting external users.

--- Microsoft Entra ID Licenses ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give a brief introduction onto licenses when it comes onto Microsoft
Entra ID.
For students who are not familiar with licensing concept.
Currently what we have is we are very familiar when it comes to building resources in Azure so we can
build virtual machines.
We can build storage accounts.
The usage of each service is built against our subscription.
But in Microsoft we also have this ability to purchase licenses.
There are licenses available when it comes onto Microsoft Enter ID, so we have something known as Microsoft
Enter ID p1 based licenses.
We have P2 based licenses, and we have an entire and we have an entire Microsoft Entra suite based
pseudo licenses.
There's also a price.
For example, the P1 license is 6 USD per user per month.
The P2 is 9 USD per user per month.
On this page you'll get what are the features when you compare these different licensing options?
Why do we even need to consider licensing if we need additional functionality in Azure?
Yes, we can build infrastructure and that infrastructure is built against our Azure subscription.
But sometimes we need licenses for enhanced security.
If you look at Microsoft Android.
There are some advanced security concepts.
For example, we have something known as conditional access, where in we can improve the security of
the users who authenticate onto our account by having extra layers of security using conditional access.
Similarly, there are a lot of other aspects Like, for example, we can identify the risky sign ins.
Maybe there are, you know, other malicious users who are trying to log into our Azure account.
How do we get notified?
How can Azure understand these risky sign ins?
Well, all of this extra security features are available when you purchase these additional licenses.
So by default with Microsoft Enter ID three, we get some basic, you know, features in place in terms
of enter ID itself.
We can create users.
We can create groups.
We can assign users.
When it comes on to enhance security, which is very, very important for not only Azure accounts.
Remember Microsoft Enter ID is the security platform for not only Azure, it's also for Microsoft 365
as well.
So even for me, for my company, I have licenses in place when it comes onto the premium base licenses
Ip2 base licenses, then I also make use of Microsoft Business Standard, you know, for the Microsoft
65 suite of products.
I've also made use of licenses when it comes on to power BI.
So we do have different licenses for different products in place which we can purchase.
Now from the perspective of the exam okay, I just want to showcase okay, how can we assign licenses
to users and groups.
How do we work with them?
It will be difficult for users for you all to actually follow along, because in order to get that licensing
in place right, most of the times, okay, there are some free trials available, but it's not so easy
to even get that free trial.
Before, it was very easy to get free trials for this premium based licenses.
So even for premium users, Microsoft enter id p2 based licenses, there are some trials available,
but then you need to perform some actions in order to kind of avail of these trials.
And sometimes it's difficult for students to actually go through this entire process.
And I do want to actually just buy licenses for the sake of going through this.
Maybe it's not required because you have to pay per user per month.
I also want to showcase a few chapters on how we work or manage licenses.
And that's the entire reason why I've chosen this account, because I do have licenses available as
part of this account.
Now next, in order to manage licenses for your account, there are some general steps.
First and foremost, you have to first of all define a new user in Microsoft Android.
This Android user will then log into another portal.
It's known as admin Docs.microsoft.com.
It's actually recently been renamed.
In terms of the URL, there is where you manage licenses before you could manage licenses within Azure
itself.
But now you can't do that.
You have to go to a separate portal page and then manage licenses.
In order to log in onto that separate portal, you need a separate user define in Microsoft enter ID.
Then for this separate user, you need to assign a role we already learned about.
So this is a role in Microsoft enter ID.
At this point in time I've just assigned the global administrator role.
But normally if you just want the user to manage licenses, then a separate license administrator role
that you can make use of.
So once you have this user in place, the next step would be if I just copy the link.
So if I go onto admin dot microsoft.com I'm redirected on to admin dot cloud dot Microsoft.
And here I have already logged in before, so I've logged in.
Has that particular user.
If I go on to billing, if I go on to my licenses, see here.
I do have a set of licenses in place.
So it comes on to something known as Microsoft Business Standard and IDP two.
I have some free licenses in terms of Microsoft Fabric, so we can I know I can just showcase how we
make use of these licenses.
We are not going to actually use the products based on these licenses.
It just a matter of understanding, you know, from an easy one.
For perspective, how do we manage licenses?
Because there's a lot that you have to do just to make sure that you can even avail of a free trial
of licenses.
For example, you have to set your billing account in place, your billing profile, a lot of information
needs to be set, and many students have issues in terms of setting all of this in place just to avail
that free trial that I'm just giving you all kind of a rundown on how we can manage licenses.
All right.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Assigning licenses to users ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through how you can assign licenses to individual users.
I'm in admin dot cloud dot Microsoft.
So this is the Microsoft 365 Admin center.
Now note that I'm logged in as this particular user as part of my directory, not as user zero one.
Not as user zero two.
If I want, I can just go ahead and sign out and just forget them.
Just to make sure that we don't have them in place.
So we are just with that add that user that I have that is the global administrator.
What I notice is here also on the left hand side.
Remember this is not Azure.
This is the Microsoft Admin Center under users.
Under active users.
I can see the users that I have as part.
You know what I could see in Microsoft Center ID within Azure.
Within the Azure portal.
See, I told you that my tenant, my directory in Microsoft Azure ID is not only used for Azure, it's
also used for other services as well.
So Microsoft 65 and even other software as a service applications.
So even here I can go ahead and add a user.
So let me just add a user quickly.
I'll just give a username.
Give the same.
So I'll give a display name and username.
Let me mention my own password.
Please note that I am not going to log in as this user.
I'll click on next for a user.
In order to assign a license, the location must be set.
This is known as the usage location in Azure.
If I go onto Microsoft enter ID if I go on to an existing user.
So let's say I go on to user zero one.
Under the properties we have something known as the usage location.
So if I edit the settings here.
We have to mention the usage location.
Only once we mention this, then we'll be able to assign a license.
So this is a requirement when it comes on to assigning licenses.
I do have some licenses in place for the purpose of these kind of demos.
I'm going to choose the Microsoft Fabric free base licenses that I have.
So I have two out of three that are now available.
Once I assign this license, I'll click on next and then click on Finish Adding.
So all I'm doing is I'm just adding a user analyst zero one and assigning a license.
This user should now be able to use the power BI tool based on this license.
So that's the entire idea of assigning this license to this user.
This user can use whatever other free capabilities of Microsoft Fabric and use that tool.
Right.
Just a quick chapter on assigning a license onto a user.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Assigning licenses to groups ---

Now, in the prior chapter, I had shown you how you can assign a license onto a user.
In this chapter, I want to showcase how you can assign a license onto a security group.
Now, so far we have not worked with security groups, but the entire purpose of groups is to club users
together and then you can give permissions to the users accordingly.
So as an example, let's look at assigning licenses to a group of users.
What I'll do first is under teams and groups let me go ahead and create a new security group.
So if you go onto Azure we can do the same thing from here as well.
Under groups we can create a new one.
Here in terms of the group we can choose from a security or a Microsoft three five based group.
If you look at these groups right.
If you have, you know, when it comes on Microsoft 365 this is when you want users to use products
like SharePoint, use teams, calendar, etc. you want to club them all as part of a group.
When it comes on to security groups, this is when you want to assign permissions.
So this is mainly permissions in terms of access control right.
Role based access control or even group based licensing.
So we can create the group from here itself.
Or I could go on to security groups here.
I just have a couple of them in place and I can add a new one.
So what I'll do is let me add a group for the analysts.
Just give a description.
Click on next.
If you want you can make Azure AD roles get assigned on to this group.
But I'll keep it simple.
I'll just create the group.
So we can create a normal security group.
We can create also a Microsoft 35 group as well.
So I'll just create a group quickly.
We can assign owners or do it just for this point in time.
I'll just assign one user here that I have click on next.
Won't add any members.
I just want to go ahead and just basically make sure that I create this group.
Right.
So we have one based on Microsoft 65 and another security one.
Let me go on to users and create a new user now.
So I'll create a user of.
Analyst zero two.
I won't assign any license to this user.
Note that, you know, we do have two licenses still available when it comes onto Microsoft Fabric.
Click on next.
Let's add another user.
So I'll add another user off analyst zero three.
Let me place it here.
Again just specify the password.
You want to assign the license I want to create a user without a product license.
Click on next.
Finish creating the user.
So now I have let me just filter on domain user.
So now I have the analyst in place.
What you'll notice is for analyst zero one.
Yes we have assign a Microsoft free license in terms of Microsoft Fabric early on, but analyst zero
two and analyst zero three, they are unlicensed.
If I go back on to my groups now, if I go on to my security groups, what I can do is I can click on
more actions here for that particular group.
Let me, uh, actually let me go on to the group itself.
Let me go on to members view and manage members.
Let me add the analyst zero two and analyst zero three.
So I'll add them.
Once they're added.
I'll just go back here.
So the members I can see them now I can go on to licenses and apps here itself and select the Microsoft
Fabric license and click on Save Changes.
What this will do is this will now allocate licenses to users in the group.
This is only if you have spare licenses in place.
You have to ensure that you have licenses in place to assign to users within the group.
If you go on to the Microsoft three five group itself.
Here there is no way to assign a license.
There is something known as creating a Microsoft 305 group with a security setting enabled.
When you do this, then you have the capability of assigning a license.
But at this point in time, I don't believe we can do it.
Here on the portal, you have to use PowerShell to create that sort of group, but just from an exam
perspective.
Understand that by default, with this Microsoft group in place, we cannot assign a license.
We can assign it onto a security group.
Yes, you can create a Microsoft 305 group with security enabled and then assign a license.
Okay.
If I go back onto my active users, this filter on my domain users.
Now you will see that for n is zero two and for n is zero three.
They have been assigned the Microsoft Fabric based licenses accordingly.
So yes, we can assign licenses to our groups and this makes it simpler from a management perspective.

--- Further points on group-based licensing ---

In this chapter, you're going to give a few notes when it comes onto licensing for your groups.
Please go through both of these pages when it comes on to group based licensing.
On this page, it clearly mentions that you know from this effective date, Microsoft enter ID Admin
Center and the Microsoft Azure portal no longer support license assignment through the user interfaces.
We know that we have to go onto admin dot cloud dot Microsoft for this requirement.
Now.
Then on this page we can see that in order to make use of group based licenses, you need to have a
paid or a trial subscription for Microsoft enter ID, P1 and higher.
Licenses can be assigned to any security group within Microsoft enter ID we know about this.
We know how to do this.
When a product license is assigned onto a group, the administrator can disable one or more service
plans in the product.
Typically, this assignment is done when an organization isn't ready to start using a service.
Included in the product.
Now, for example, for a particular user.
Let's say for my analyst.
If I go onto licenses.
I have this, uh, Microsoft enter id p two based licenses.
And let me just uncheck this one.
The Microsoft Fabric free one.
Open the apps.
So under Microsoft Entra id p two we have Microsoft Azure multi-factor authentication.
Microsoft Defender for cloud apps discovery and P1 and P2 based licenses.
So these are the features for that particular license.
What that point is probably saying is we can probably uncheck the use of Microsoft Defender for cloud
apps discovery for this particular user, because maybe the company is not ready to roll out this particular
feature.
I can click on save changes.
Right.
So that probably is a point they're trying to convey across.
Then what else is there that's important.
You can actually go to this page just to understand what are the important aspects about group based
licensing.
So you can see that group members inherit licenses that are assigned onto the group.
Another thing that I want to just quickly try out is.
If I go on to my active teams and groups, Let me go on to security.
So this GRP analyst group let me create a new security group here.
I'll just name this GRP power BI.
For now.
Just create the group.
Now let me go on to the analyst group.
And in the members let me view all and manage members here.
Let me click on Add Members.
Now in terms of adding members we have the ability to kind of have nested groups in place.
So now this particular GRP Analyst Security group contains two members and one group.
So nesting of groups is possible.
But when you have the sort of nesting.
So let me go on to GRP power BI.
Go on to members View and Manage members.
And let me add.
Analyst zero one.
This is done.
See, what I'm trying to showcase is if I go on to active users.
Currently for analyst zero one, if I go on to licenses and apps, let me just uncheck this and click
on Save Changes.
Okay I'll just click on refresh.
Right now I can see that analyst zero one is unlicensed.
What I would expect is going back onto my security groups.
What I could understand is what I'm trying to understand is, okay, I have GRP analyst, which I have
remember applied a license of power BI.
We have seen that the users within this particular group have received that license.
Now within this analyst I created another nested group.
And within this I have analyst zero one.
So we'll analyst zero one receive the license that we have assigned onto GRP analyst where the answer
is no.
Only members in the main group will actually get the license.
Members in the nested group will not receive the licenses.
I mean, you can actually try this out in case if you do have licenses going on to active users, again,
you'll always see that analyst zero one is unlicensed.
But in this chapter, I want to go through some important points when it comes to group based licensing.

--- What is self-service password reset ---

In this chapter, I want to give a quick introduction onto a feature in Microsoft Entra that's known
as the Self-service Password reset.
This gives users the ability to change or reset their password with no requirement from an administrator
or helpdesk.
So as a user contacting the helpdesk or the administrator to reset their password, you can go ahead
and make use of the self-service password reset to reset the password itself in order to make this work.
The prerequisite is a Microsoft entra tenant with at least entra id p1 based licenses.
So this is required for me.
Since I already have P2 based licenses in place, we can make use of them.
We need a non administrator user.
So this works with non admin users.
So we can go ahead and see this in the data section.
So this is quite a simple feature.
If you want a user to have the capability of resetting their own password we can make use of this feature.
Let's move on to the next chapter.
I'll first showcase how do we enable this feature of self-service password reset.
And then we'll try it out for a test user.

--- Enabling self-service password reset ---

In this chapter, I want to go through the process of how do you enable the feature of self-service
password reset.
Let me first of all go on to Microsoft Entra ID, just to review what I currently have in terms of users.
What I'll do is let me target user zero one for this particular demo.
I want to make sure that this particular user is part of a user group.
Going on to my default directory, again going on to the groups.
Now currently I do have a set of groups in place.
Let me create a new one.
So this will be a security group.
I'll just name this as GRP users give the same group description.
I'll leave the membership type as assigned.
I can assign the members now itself.
Let me find for user zero one.
Click on select and click on create.
The reason I'm choosing a user zero one is because I've already gone through the process of changing
the password for this user.
I've already gone through the process of making sure that we have that second level of authentication,
which is again necessary when it comes onto self-service password reset.
So once I have that group in place, the next step is I need to go on to admin the admin center and
assign a license in order for self-service password reset to work.
We have to assign a Microsoft entra ID license to the User Premium base license.
Hence, per user 01I will assign this license.
This is done.
Next step going back onto Azure within my directory.
My default directory in Microsoft enter ID, we have to go on to Password Reset and we have this entire
section here on enabling password reset For you.
If you're trying this out for the first time, it will be none.
We can then apply password reset onto either no one, everyone, or just a selected group.
So we can only select groups here.
That's why I created a group early on a security one.
If I select that group users group and click on select and click on save.
What you'll notice is we also have that ability to choose a Microsoft three five group as well.
Next on to authentication methods.
So what are the authentication methods available to users?
If a user has forgotten their password okay, they need to go through a process of being able to reset
their password.
The user will need to verify their identity.
But because you could have any malicious user who will say that okay, I've forgotten my password,
let me go ahead and reset the password.
So to try to emulate another user, if it got the user ID in hand, it could just go ahead and try to
reset the password.
But then obviously from a security perspective with Microsoft and ID, you have to go through a certain
number of steps, that number of steps, the number of methods that you require to reset.
You can decide over here is it just one or you want two methods?
Currently, I have only one method.
That means that in order to reset the password, the user just needs to go through one extra method
of authentication of basically verifying themselves.
What are the methods available?
I've selected email and the mobile phone.
In registration, the users have to register themselves.
What this means is if it's a first time, the user will need to make sure that the email address and
phone number are in place, right?
So that next time when they want to perform a self-service password reset, Microsoft Android can ask
that information based on the email and the mobile number.
Right.
So this is when it comes to password reset.
Let's move on to the next chapter where in let's try out the process of self-service password reset.

--- Performing a self-service password reset ---

Right.
In this chapter, let's try out the process of a self-service password reset.
What I'll do is let me open up all resources, the link in a new tab for the Azure portal.
Let me just sign out and forget most of the users that I'm not using anymore.
So it is having it's one of the accounts was having a problem.
Let me go back and open all resource the link in a new tab again.
Just want to make sure that I forget.
Okay.
Now I want to use another account.
Let me log in as user zero one.
Click on next.
Instead of entering a password now you can see this.
Forgot my password link in place.
Let me click on this.
This takes me on to the password reset feature of Microsoft Online.
This is the email or the user ID.
It's asking to enter these verification characters.
In case if you can't make out the characters, you can always go ahead and click on reload again.
I'll click on next.
Now you are saying we are sorry.
We can't reset your own password because you haven't registered for password reset.
If you show the additional details, there is a link that's telling you let's register for self-service
password reset.
Let's go on to my sign ins dot Microsoft.com security info.
Here I want to log in as user one actually first.
So for now I will need to enter my password because we first have to register for self-service password
reset.
So it's saying to verify our identity.
Let me send a text message.
Let me just enter the code that I have received.
Click on verify.
So now our phone.
Let me just add another sign in method.
Let me choose email to make sure that this is also set.
The reason I'm doing this is when it comes on to password reset.
When it comes onto the authentication methods, I choose a method of a mobile phone and an email, so
I'm making sure that both of those details are available in my security info.
So I will need to make sure that I enter the code that's sent to the email address, I'll enter the
code.
Click on next.
So this is already done.
So all of my sign in methods are now registered when it comes onto user zero one.
Let me sign out.
I'll close this tab.
Let's try this again.
Let me open up the link of Azure in a new tab.
It's actually trying to log in as my other user.
Let me forget.
Use another account sign in as user zero one.
I'll say I again forgot my password.
Just entering.
The details given here.
And now we have that verification steps in place.
I can email my alternate email and enter the verification code that I have received.
Let me enter the code and click on next.
So I've received the verification code.
Click on next.
And now I can enter my new password for this user.
Click on finish and that's it.
We're done.
The password is now reset and I can click here to log in as the new user.
I can use a different account and use that user accordingly.
But in this chapter it's kind of go through that.
I want to go through the process of self-service password reset.

--- Resource tags ---

In this chapter, I want to go through the feature that's known as resource tagging.
Resource tags are nothing but key value pairs that you can assign to your resources, your resource
groups, and your subscriptions.
These tags can actually add more business context to your resources.
For example, I could add a tag of environment is equal to dev, environment is equal to prod.
Department is equal to logistics.
The benefit of tags are so we can filter resources based on the tags.
We can also group and filter spends based on the tags tags that are assigned at the resource group level.
They are not inherited.
They are not I confirm not inherited by the resources within the resource group.
So here as as an example, let's say for a company that has an Azure subscription, they have two resource
groups.
One, you know they are based on environment.
So here they have segregated their resources via resource groups based on embodiments, they have one
for dev and they have one for prod.
If they want to further segregate, they want to further add business value to their resources.
So they could say that this machine okay, is actually part of a cost center in an organization you
can have in an organization, you can have multiple cost centers.
So this machine, whatever billing is applied for, this machine needs to go against this cost center.
Similarly, you could have another machine that goes against another cost center.
Now adding tags is very simple.
If you go on to a resource within Azure, there's something known as tags.
And you can just add a tag.
Now what I've done is I've already added a tag of cost center 1702.
Here we could add another tag of let's say what type of tier is being hosted by this application.
Let's say it's a tier two and click on apply.
So just a simple name value pair.
One of the benefits of this is if I go out all resources, we should be able to apply a filter based
on tags.
So here, since I applied the cost center tag earlier on, I can choose Cost center and say that only
show me the resources that apply onto this particular cost center.
Also from a costing perspective, from a cost management perspective.
When I go onto cost analysis.
So under cost analysis, if I go to the accumulated costs and I'm getting the actual cost, but in the
group by if I scroll down, we can also filter based on the tags.
Now this year I am not getting my cost center tag.
It does take time.
I just assign the tag probably an hour ago.
You need some expense to go against the resource to go against the tag to come up here.
But you know, the benefit of resource tags are that you could filter your resources based on tags and
also from a costing perspective.

--- Lab - Moving resources across resource groups ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the concept wherein we can move resources to, you know,
across resource groups.
We can move them across a subscription as well or target this in the next chapter.
In this chapter, I just want to kind of go through the concept that you can move resources across resource
groups during the move operation, both the source and the target resource groups are locked.
That means you can't create, delete, or update resources within these resource groups while the move
is in progress.
However, the existing resources remain fully operational just to look at a use case when it comes on
to an example on moving resources across resource groups.
Let me go to resource groups in my resource manager.
Let me create a new resource group here.
Let me name this as test.
Best.
Let's leave the location as North Europe.
Go on to review and create.
If I just click on refresh.
So I've refreshed the entire page.
I can see my test resource group in the North Europe location.
If I go on all resources now currently my resources are part of my resource group, but they are in
the East US location.
You have to understand that for most of the services, it's not required that the resource needs to
be in the same location as the resource group location.
It's only when you don't define a default location for the deployment of resource, then it will default
onto the location of the resource group.
Let's try to move the resource.
Let me search for okay I don't have a public IP address.
What I'll do is, uh, let me go on to one of the machines that I have.
Go on to the network settings.
Let's define a new public IP address, because I want to take that as an example.
Click on configure.
It's quite simple.
It will go onto the network interface the IP configuration.
Go onto the IP config.
Let's associate and ask the user to create a new public IP address.
So it will create a new resource within our source resource group and hopefully within the East US location.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Right.
Once done going out all resources again.
Let's click on refresh just to see.
Yes, I do have my public IP address in place.
It is in my dev based resource group in East US.
Let me go on to it.
Here in the essentials.
Under the resource group you can see we have the move operation.
Let me try to move it onto our test based resource group.
I'll click on next.
We need to perform a validation.
It's checking whether these resources can be moved.
Just refer on to the Microsoft documentation on what services can actually move across resource groups
and what are the constraints.
Here I'm just trying to do a very simple move of a public IP address.
I'll just take a minute or two for the validation to complete.
Now once the validation is complete let me click on next.
Then I'll click on.
I understand the tools and scripts linked with the move.
Resources will not work until I update them to use the new resource IDs and I'll click on move.
It will now perform the operation of moving the resource onto the new resource group.
Please note that it will not change the location of the resource.
It will remain the same.
All we're doing is moving it onto a new resource group.
Now there could be different reasons as to why you would want to move resources across groups.
Maybe the you know, you have applications that are spread across these groups, and now this public
IP needs to move on to a new VM.
And that new VM is part of another group.
So that could be one reason.
Maybe from a billing or a costing perspective, you need that public IP address to be part of another
group.
That's part of that application.
So I said there could be multiple reasons as to why you would want to move resources across resource
groups.
Now this does take probably around 3 to 4 minutes.
Let's wait until this is done.
Right I've come back.
The move is complete.
If I click on refresh, it is not coming up.
But we should see that this particular public IP resource is now part of the test based resource group.
So it is possible that we can move resources across resource groups.

--- Moving resources across subscriptions ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through moving resources across subscriptions.
That's something that you can do.
There are some scenarios for moving resources across subscriptions.
If there are dependent resources that are distributed across different resource groups, then we need
to move them all into one resource group first, and then we can move them on to the target subscription.
So this is important.
Companies might have multiple subscriptions in place.
They might have a subscription for each department in their company.
There could be a requirement wherein some infrastructure needs to be moved on to another subscription.
This is something that can be done.
In order to go ahead and do this, let's try out.
Let me click on refresh here.
Let me try moving VM dev web one onto.
A The new subscription.
So here I'll click on move.
Let's see if this works.
I do have another subscription within my account.
I don't have a resource group.
Let me quickly create one now.
Yes you can go ahead and create multiple Azure subscriptions.
So what I've done is I've just gone ahead and create a new pay as you go subscription.
You don't have to do it yourself.
Just try to showcase that.
Yes, you can move resources across subscriptions.
If I click on next, it will perform a validation.
But the problem here is the validation will probably fail.
See, along with the virtual machine.
Remember the documentation said that dependent resources also need to move with the target resource.
This virtual machine is dependent upon the virtual network.
There is a dependency on probably the NSG that's attached to the virtual the subnet in the virtual network.
If the machine has a public IP address.
Now remember that early on we I think create a public IP address for this machine.
We moved it on to another resource group.
So if we need to move that public IP address, we will need to move that public IP address back to this
resource group that contains this virtual machine.
And only then will be able to move all resources across a subscription.
Let's wait for the validation to complete.
I believe it's going to fail, but let's just wait and come back.
Yeah, so what we are seeing is the validation has failed.
We can click on the error details.
It will tell you that this request does not contain all of the dependent resources.
So we will need to move even VM dev web two.
Because VM dev web two is part of the virtual network because the virtual network needs to move.
So we have to consider all aspects when it comes onto moving resources across subscriptions.
Just want to give this important note in this chapter that yes, you can move resources across subscriptions,
but it's different than moving across resource groups.
Here we need to also think about moving dependent resources as well.

--- Lab - Locking Resources ---

Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter, I want to go through the concept of being able to lock your Azure base resources to
protect your infrastructure.
As an administrator, you can lock an Azure subscription, an entire resource group, or just a resource
to prevent the accidental user deletion or modification of a resource.
There are two types of locks that you can define.
One is a cannot delete lock.
That means only authorized users can read and modify a resource, but they can't delete them.
You have a read only lock.
That means that authorized users can read a resource, but they can't delete or update the resource
itself.
When you apply a lock at a parent, scope or resources within that lock inherit the same lock itself.
So as an example, if I go onto Azure, if I go on to a virtual machine, just as an example, most
resources have that concept of applying locks.
If I search for locks.
It comes on the settings.
I can add a lock.
This can be either a read only or a delete based lock.
If I choose read only and just give a simple lock name and click on okay.
This lock is at the scope of the virtual machine.
Now if I go on to the overview of the machine itself, let me try to stop the machine.
This is failing because it cannot perform a write operation on the machine itself.
This is because of that read only lock.
We can also apply a lock at the resource group level.
Now if you do apply a lock at the resource group level, you have to understand that it will be inherited
by all locks within the resource group itself.
If I give a lock name, this is of the type read only and click on okay.
So what we're doing is we are creating a look at the resource group level.
Now within the resource group, if I go, for example, onto my Azure storage account, that is actually
part of that resource group.
If I search for lock, what you notice is that it has inherited the lock that we defined at the resource
group level.
On this page, you know, you can actually go through and understand the considerations before applying
your locks.
For example, they say that now that you have a lock in place in your Azure storage account, if I try
to add a container.
Let me give a simple container name and click on create.
You'll notice that it has failed to create the container.
If I try to go on to access keys.
So even though I'm Azure admin.
I do have the ability to see the keys and copy it on the clipboard, so this is possible.
We are able to work with the keys, but we are not able to create containers.
You can actually go to the documentation page to understand the different aspects when it comes on to
defining locks.
So even as the Azure administrator, if there's a lock in place, I cannot go ahead and make changes.
Or you know, if I have a delete only lock, that means I can't delete the resource itself.
This is just the basis when it comes on to resource locks.
Just to go back to our prior settings, I'll go onto my resource group going on to locks.
Let me delete the lock that are at the resource group level.
And try to delete the lock at the VM level as well.
All right.
So now we don't have any locks in place right.
This marks the end of this very simple chapter.

--- Management Groups ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give an introduction onto something known as management groups.
Now, I did explain earlier on that a company might look towards having multiple subscriptions in place.
I'm just giving a simple example of just two subscriptions.
Maybe you have one that is being used by the logistics department and another one used by the IT department.
Within each subscription you have resource groups and you have resources, and then you have resource
tags.
In a company they might have not only two, they could have ten.
They could have 20 subscriptions in place for different departments in their company.
Each subscription can be kind of a boundary when it comes on to defining resources, isolating environments,
assigning permissions and policy assignments.
The costing and budgets can also be managed per subscription.
Now, when you do have multiple subscriptions in place, you can use something known as management groups.
Management groups actually sits on top of the subscriptions.
You get a hierarchy for defining then role based access control and Azure policies.
See, what you can do is you can define something known as a management group.
You can assign subscriptions onto the group itself.
You could then have a role assign at the management group level.
Once you do this, that role will be given to the child subscription.
So each subscription will then inherit that role based access control.
So maybe by default for every subscription you might want to have some sort of roles already defined
for certain administrators like global administrators.
You could assign that role at a management group level, and then that role would come onto each and
every subscription.
Or maybe you want to have something known as a policy.
Now we'll be covering policies in a separate chapter.
When you define a policy at the management group level, then it will trickle down onto the relevant
subscriptions.
I just want to give kind of an overview on using management groups.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Just a quick look into Management Groups ---

Here I am in my other Azure account in order to work with management groups.
You know, in your Azure account.
First and foremost, you need to go on to Microsoft.
Enter ID in Microsoft.
Enter ID.
If you go on to the properties and scroll down when it comes on to access management for Azure Resources.
This needs to be marked as yes.
So this is the first thing you have to mark this as yes.
And then click on save.
We can then go on to the service of management groups.
Let me go ahead and just hide this.
By default you get something known as a tenant root group for you.
Under the tenant root group you will have your Azure subscription.
What I've done is I've created actually a new management group which you can do.
Quite simple.
We just give it a name.
I create a management group of information technology.
And then under this I have placed my Azure subscriptions.
It's simple.
It's just a hierarchy that you want to create when it comes onto your subscriptions.
For your tenant route group.
In order to make use of management groups, you have to go onto access control and you have to make
sure that you yourself.
If I go on to role assignments, you yourself, the Azure Admin is assigned the User Access Administrator
role.
And I said once you kind of define the management group.
So if I go on information technology, which is its own group, if I go onto access control, what I
could do is I could add role assignment.
So let's say I add a role assignment for a particular security group in Microsoft entra.
So let's say that I add a particular role for a particular security group.
At this management group level.
That same role for that same group will apply onto all subscriptions within this group.
So isn't it just a matter of understanding that we can, you know, have a hierarchy of our subscriptions
by the use of management groups?
Just want to give this a quick overview on this particular feature.

--- Lab - Using the Azure Policy Service ---

And welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through Azure Policies.
Now Azure policy is something that you can use even in your Azure free account.
So I'll just be showcasing an example in my Azure account.
Since for this entire section I've been working with this account itself.
But you can work with your own Azure free account.
That should not be a problem.
Now what exactly is Azure policy?
Well, this is an inbuilt service that helps you evaluate the state of your resources and your requests
against certain rules.
You can define rules that have a particular effect.
For example, you can have an effect of deny and effect of audit and effect of a pen, etc. you can
apply these policies at different scopes.
You can apply it at the management group level, at the subscription level, at the resource group level,
and at the resource level.
Policies is all about making sure that your deployments, your resources, Follow certain compliance
standards set by the company.
It helps to actually kind of prevent drift of your resources from the normal.
I said you would define standards and everything is actually based on compliance to these standards.
As an example, just to understand to see Azure policy in action, what I can do is within my Azure
account we can actually go onto the policy service.
There are already inbuilt definitions in place.
Now by the way, there are already some policies assigned onto my Azure account.
We can go on to the definitions.
And here we have multiple inbuilt policy definitions in place.
You can club multiple policy definitions into an initiative.
And just make sure that all the policies are assigned.
I said you can assign at different scopes.
Now, as an example, let me search for skew.
Here there's one policy which states that the allowed virtual machine size skews.
Let me click on this particular policy and you'll see its definition.
This policy enables you to specify a set of virtual machine skews that your organizations can use for
deploying virtual machines.
Let's say from a costing perspective, an organization only wants, you know, the administrators to
deploy machines based on certain skews.
So not all skews.
Maybe they don't want to have higher skews in place, you know, because of high costing, you can limit
the deployment based on certain skews using a policy definition.
So we already have this policy definition in place.
I can assign the policy.
Now we can assign the policy at The management group level.
We can assign it at the subscription level and at the resource group level.
Please note that you could also apply the policy at a resource level as well.
I believe this can be done via an API request.
Currently not available here, but we can basically apply it.
We can refer to the Microsoft documentation for that.
I'll click on select.
So let me select my resource group and we can have exclusions but I won't have any exclusions.
So this is the policy definition.
Click on next.
Now since this is based on certain skew sizes this is available as a parameter.
I can now decide okay what are the sizes that I can basically use.
So let me try b to s.
That is 1D2S b3 Okay, I've just put in two sizes.
I'll go on to next.
There are certain policies that also have remediation in place.
If you want to make sure that if there's a drift of a resource from a particular policy, make sure
that remediation step in place to make sure that resource complies with the standard.
Here there is no remediation in place.
Go on to review and create and let me click on create.
Here we are assigning a policy at the resource group level.
Now this does take time.
It takes about 5 to 15 minutes for the policy to take effect.
I'll come back after some time.
But I also want to give you all this quick note.
Let's say that I do have a virtual machine.
Whose size?
Whose queue size is not within that list.
The policy will only mark the resource has non-compliant.
It's not going to delete the resource.
I said it will only mark it as non-compliant and let you know it's up to you to decide what is your
next step.
So policies can be used to first of all, define the compliance of your resources.
There are certain policies I told you that have this remediation steps that can take that extra step
of making sure that your resource abides by the policy.
So let's wait and come back.
I won't have a policy to take effect, and then we'll see the impact of having this policy.
I'll come back after around five minutes if I just go onto the policy service again.
Let me just view all of the policies that are applied.
In terms of the allowed virtual machine size.
Q at the moment, it's saying that both of our machines are compliant with this particular policy.
Now, let me go on to virtual machines and create a new machine.
I'll select my existing resource group.
Let me give a machine name.
Let me leave the region as it is.
No infrastructure.
Let's scroll down.
Now what you'll notice is in terms of the sizes, the only sizes that are available are based on the
sizes that you have mentioned as per your policy.
We cannot choose another size.
If you are not sure.
I may choose another location.
Again, no infrastructure come down.
Again the same thing.
So that policy is now limiting the SKUs that you can actually use for your virtual machines.
So it's not only about compliance now, it's also taking an effect as well.
Just one more thing.
If I go on to any resource here, if I search for policy.
So we have policies in place I can click on assign.
I can see that we can assign it at.
So this is possible.
We can assign it at the scope of the resource as well.
Okay.
Now that we are done, let me go back onto the policy just to make sure that we go back to our normal
state.
If I go on to the assignments.
So for the allowed one I'll go on to the context menu and delete the assignment.
I'm just making sure that we go back to the normal state when it comes onto this Azure account.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the use of Azure policies.

--- Lab - Azure Policy - Not Allowed Resource types ---

Now in this chapter, I just want to go through another example when it comes onto using Azure policies
in policies.
If I go on to the definitions.
I want to go on to the allowed.
So there should be a policy that states that what are the allowed okay, not allowed resource types.
Let me select this policy.
Restrict which resource types can be deployed onto your environment.
Let me click on Assign Policy.
I'll again select the resource group level.
Click on select No exclusions.
Click on next.
Now again since this is based on a particular resource type we will get a parameter.
Here we're saying What are the resource types that are not allowed?
Let me search for virtual network.
I want to be able to select okay Microsoft Dot network and virtual networks.
So I'm saying this is a not allowed resource type.
I'll directly go on to review and create and click on create.
Let me again just wait for a few minutes and then come back.
Okay I've come back after some time.
If I go back onto the overview for Azure policy.
Here for the not allowed resource types, we can now see a noncompliance.
And that's because we do have a virtual network in place right within that resource group.
So it's coming out as a noncompliance because we have defined this as a not allowed Resource type.
What is the other problem that we're going to have?
So now under virtual machines, if I try to create a new machine under that resource group, I'll just
give a simple machine name in East US in our location of the virtual network.
No infrastructure.
In terms of the image, I'll just choose Ubuntu Server.
I can now choose from the variety of sizes, so I'll choose standard underscore B1 s here as a public
key.
Just give a name of Linux key.
Go on to the Dis on to networking to select our existing virtual network.
Let me directly go on to the Review and Create screen.
So currently in the review and Create screen.
It's working as expected.
We are able or we do have the ability to create a new machine.
But let's say that I go on to the networking section and let me tell to create a new virtual network.
I'll just give a very simple name for now.
Now let me go on to the Review and Create screen.
Now in terms of the validation, it's failing.
It's saying that the new virtual network is disallowed via the policy.
In this chapter I want to give another example in terms of Azure policies.
This time it was around basically making sure that we can't use a particular resource type again now
that we're done.
I'll make sure I go on to policies and unassign the policy from my resource group.

--- Preparing our infrastructure ---

Hi and welcome on to the section.
So in this section we are going to be looking at the monitoring aspect when it comes on Azure.
In order to have some infrastructure in place.
What I've gone ahead and done is I've built a set of virtual machines.
They are part of a virtual network.
I've used an ARM template.
I'll make sure to make this ARM template available to you all as well.
In essence, just to look at the monitoring aspects in Azure, I said I've built a couple of machines.
I have two Azure storage accounts in place.
Public IP addresses have been assigned onto these machines.
If I go on to VM dev web1, take the public IP address, assign on to the machine itself in a new browser
tab.
When I go onto the public IP address of the machine, I can see internet information services.
Both of my machines are based on Windows Server 2025 via the use of custom script extensions, I've
made sure to install Internet Information Services, the script file which you had already seen.
So this is the ARM template.
I've placed the script file in another Azure storage account that's part of another resource group,
and we've already seen how this works.
Within this I have scripts base container and I have my script base file.
So I will share this ARM template.
This is just a simple deployment of Azure VMs within my account.
Let's use this infrastructure in this particular section.

--- What is the Azure Monitor Service ---

So in this chapter let's have an introduction onto the Azure Monitoring Service.
The Azure Monitor Service is a complete monitoring solution for collecting, analyzing and responding
to data collected.
You can monitor both your cloud based resources and also your machines, your servers in your on premises
environment, as well as part of the Azure Monitoring service.
We get a lot.
One aspect is metrics.
These are numerical values that are collected over time.
So whether it be your storage account, whether it be your virtual machines, whether it be your, um,
load balancers, all of these services emit metrics, numerical values.
While the Azure Monitoring Service, you can then measure the performance of your resources over time
using these metrics.
For example, you can look at the CPU utilization of your machines over time.
We can then create alerts.
This can tell you if something needs attention.
You can get notified or automate a response via the user action groups.
There are different types of alerts in place.
You can have alerts based on normal metrics.
You can create alerts based on activity log or a log search.
This was a very quick introduction.
In the next chapter, let's have a quick look at the Azure Monitoring Service.
Then, as part of the AZ 104 exam, we look at important aspects in terms of the service.

--- Quick look at Azure Monitor ---

Now in this chapter, let's have an initial brief look on the Azure Monitoring service in the portal
menu.
I can scroll down.
We have Azure Monitor in place.
I can go on to it.
There are a lot of features available within this service.
We will look at features such as the activity log, the metrics, the log analytics workspace, creating
alerts, whatever is important from an easy 104 exam perspective.
First and foremost, just have a quick view.
I can go on to the metrics.
So I told you for the services in Azure, like for example your virtual machines, your storage accounts,
all of these services emit metrics, numerical values, time series based values that come up in Azure
Monitoring service.
In metrics, we can actually plot charts of these metrics over time.
So as an example here, if I go on to one of my existing resource groups in which I have my virtual
machines, I'll select both of my VMs and click on apply so we can if there are common metrics between
the resources, we should be able to plot them accordingly.
We have the various metrics.
I can filter on let's say percentage, CPU, and I should get a chart or a graph of percentage CPU of
both machines over time.
This is the metrics part.
We have the activity log part.
This is kind of the control plane.
Log.
All of the admin level activities that occur as part of your Azure account are recorded here, whether
it be at a subscription level, whether it be at a resource group level.
So for example, if someone goes in and deallocates a virtual machine that will be recorded here.
If someone goes ahead and list the storage account keys, even that has an activity is recorded here.
So quite important from an admin perspective and even a security perspective.
If you go on to each and every operation that's recorded here, you will see the resource, right.
Based on the operation, what was the operation name itself?
So we do get a lot of information initially.
First of all, we can plot metrics over time for our resources and look at the activity log.
This is just a quick initial look.
In the next chapter.
Let's see how we can now generate something known as alerts based on metrics.

--- Lab - Azure Monitor - Alerts ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give a quick example on how we can create an alert in the Azure Monitoring
Service.
And alert basically informs you when something needs attention.
Let's say that you have an application running on a set of VMs.
The underlying VM infrastructure is now under a lot of load based on the applications.
Maybe the CPU is going beyond a particular threshold and you want the admin team to be notified accordingly.
So you can have notifications in place based on your alerts.
Or you can even automate a response via the use of action groups.
Let's go through an example on how to create an alert.
How to define an alert.
If I go on to the alerts section here.
So I do have some alerts already in place that have been fired.
This is just based on working with alerts in Azure Monitor In order to create a new alert.
So here we can create something known as an alert rule.
We can create something known as an action group.
And we can create something known as an alert processing rule.
Let me go ahead with the process of creating an alert rule.
The first thing is the scope.
For which resource do you want to define this particular alert.
So as an example, let me select one of the VMs that I have and click on apply.
So the first thing is the scope.
You could have one resource has a scope or many resources.
If you do select a number of resources, then the signal that you can base the alert on again depends
upon the resources that you choose.
And what do I mean by this?
If I go next onto the condition, we can select something known as a signal.
So based on what signal do you want to base this alert rule.
So as an example if I choose percentage CPU what's happening now.
It's giving us what alert logic do we want to define for this particular signal for this particular
condition.
I can say that if the percentage CPU goes beyond 80% over time, then go ahead and generate an alert.
So based I said, on the resource that you choose based on the scope, you can decide on the various
signals.
The various conditions depends upon the resource type.
So since we chose a virtual machine in terms of signals, I can see the CPU percentage Now, as an example
in terms of the signals, let me click on see all signals.
Let me search for a signal based on network in total and click on apply.
The reason I am choosing this particular signal is I want to actually showcase how to generate an alert
if I base this on CPU percentage, since there's nothing much running on my machine on these machines,
it may not trigger the alert.
I just want to showcase how an alert gets triggered.
Hence, I'm choosing a signal which I know for sure will trigger an alert.
So based on this signal, based on this metric for the VM, we have two types of thresholds.
We have static and dynamic.
Static is where we actually define what is the threshold for this particular alert if I choose dynamic.
The monitoring service you know, over time.
First of all we look at how the resource is performing.
If the performance of the resource deviates from that normal, then it will go and generate an alert.
For now, I'll leave it as static.
First we have the aggregation type.
So do you want to look at the total in terms of this metric?
Do you want to look at the average in terms of this metric.
We have these different aggregation types.
Let me leave it as total.
I can say that if the value so this unit now is in bytes.
Since we are looking at the network traffic, I can say that if the traffic the threshold is going beyond
ten bytes and this is for sure going to trigger an alert on the right hand side.
We'll see a preview Of this metric over time, and we can definitely see that this metric is going beyond
ten bytes.
It will check this every one minute.
If over the last five minutes the network in total is going beyond ten bytes, then this condition will
be met and it should generate an alert accordingly.
Next are the actions.
What actions do you want to perform if this condition is met?
We can create something known as an action group.
This is kind of a separate resource in Azure.
Let me go ahead and quickly give a name for this action group.
So within my existing resource group at a global level, I'll just give a name.
And just give a display name.
We can then set up notifications.
We have different notification types.
I'll select email and just decide to email the Azure Admin for now.
We're just trying to define what would happen if that condition is met.
What action do you want to take?
We can have a notification in place or click on okay.
Just give it a name here.
We can also define different actions.
For example, we could create something known as an automation runbook that could restart a VM if the
CPU utilization is going beyond a particular threshold.
We can say we can have some sort of script running in the background that can automatically restart
the VM.
So we can, with the use of other Azure based services, run something in the background, automate
something in response to this particular alert.
For now, I won't add any actions.
Let me go on to review and create.
Now please note that we still haven't defined our alert rule.
All we're doing is we are creating something known as an action group that we can attach to that alert
rule or click on create.
We can actually attach this action group onto different alert rules.
So I'm making use of this action group I'll click on next.
We now need to give the details of our alert.
I'll just give a name for my alert rule.
Go on to review and create.
You'll see the total pricing in terms of USD per month for this one condition.
I'll click on create.
Now it might take around five minutes for the alert to get triggered.
What I'll do is let me wait and then come back.
when I've come back after around five minutes.
Let me refresh this entire page when it comes on to the alerts.
And now I can definitely see an alert was fired based on the alert rule that I triggered.
If you go on to the alert itself, you will see the details.
You will see that it is in the fired state.
Also, at the same time, I've received an email as well, you know, in my Azure admin email account
wherein I get the details of the alert that was fired.
Hence, the service is very simple.
If you want to be notified or have an automated response in place when anything unusual happens, like
whenever a metric goes beyond a particular threshold, we can make use of alerts.

--- Lab - Alert - Activity Log ---

Now in the prior chapters, I told you about this activity log view in Azure Monitor.
This records all of the control plane activities.
So all of the admin level activities appear here.
We can define an alert based on activity log.
So as an example let's go ahead and create a new alert rule.
This time I'll define the alert at the entire resource group level.
I'll click on apply.
I'll click on next.
Now in terms of the signals you're only going to see the signals based now on the type of the resource
group.
And we can see it's quite less.
Let me click on See All signals.
And we're actually going to see a lot of signals because there are a lot of events that can occur in
the resource group itself.
Let me search for deallocate virtual machines.
Let's say that I want to be notified whenever this sort of operation is performed on a VM.
So let's say you have a VM that is holding a critical application, and you want to be notified if a
deallocation operation has been performed on that machine or any set of machines in that resource group.
Let me go ahead and click this particular signal and click on apply.
You will then see the data over time.
If there was any deallocation performed on the machine itself, any machines has part of this resource
group.
Let me go on to next for actions.
Now, since I already have an existing action group in place, I can select that group and click on
select here.
Go on to next for the details.
I can define an alert rule name.
Go on to review and create and create that alert rule.
Now I'm going to wait for at least two minutes after the rule has been defined.
Then, because it says here it might take a few minutes for changes to be shown.
Then after two minutes if I go on to my VMs.
So I do have a couple of VMs in place in the running state.
I will just stop.
Just any one of them.
I want to perform that deallocate operation on the VM, and I want to see if I get an alert accordingly.
So what I'll do is I said I'll wait for two minutes.
I'll then deallocate a machine and then come back.
Now after just a few minutes, I said, what I did is I waited for a couple of minutes after the rule
was defined.
Then I stopped one of my Azure VMs.
I have now received an email alert that yes, a deallocate operation was performed on a virtual machine.
So remember here, what we've done is we had defined an alert.
The scope was the entire resource group.
The condition was that if anyone goes ahead and performs a deallocate operation on any machine in the
resource group, then it would automatically send an email based on our defined action group.
Right.
So this marks the end of this chapter where in I want to showcase how we can create an alert rule based
on activity logs.

--- Suppressing alerts ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I briefly want to go through how you can suppress alerts in Azure Monitoring Service.
By suppression, we just mean that we want to stop any alert notifications, any actions being sent
for a certain period under certain conditions.
Here we are not trying to delete or disable the alert.
All we're trying to do is we are trying to make sure that the action group is kind of muted for some
time.
The alert will still get evaluated and it will fire based on the condition.
It's only that in terms of the action group.
So if you have a notification, you will not receive the notification.
Now what is a common use case scenario for using these suppression rules?
Let's say you have an application running on a set of machines.
The application needs to have a patch.
Or maybe you need to apply a security patch on the underlying VMs.
Now, during that installation, maybe it requires a restart on those machines.
If you have define an alert at the resource group level for those machines, you know the admin team
would get notifications accordingly.
But since this is already a planned change by the company, it's during a planned maintenance window.
Yes, the alert will get fired, and you do want to alert the admin team because they already know that
there are some changes happening on that infrastructure during the plan maintenance window.
So for this you can define or suppress alerts.
Let me go ahead and create something known as a new alert processing rule.
Let's say I again define it at the resource group level and click on apply.
Go on to the next for the rule settings in terms of the rule type.
We could either suppress notifications altogether.
So here it's clearly telling you that the alert will still fire, but the action groups will not be
invoked.
The other one is an action group invokes a defined set of notifications and actions when the alert is
triggered.
As an example, let's say I just want to suppress notifications.
I can go on to.
Next.
Do you want to apply this rule at a specific time?
Right.
We can go ahead and do that.
Just to keep it simple.
Let me keep it as always.
You can then go on to the details.
Specify your resource group.
Give a rule name.
Go on tags.
Go on to review and create.
And then you can review and create this rule accordingly.
You can then enable and disable this suppression, this alert processing rule, at any point in time.
So I'm not going to go ahead with the creation of the suppressing rule itself.
I just want you all to know that we do have that capability of adding this alert processing rule in
place.
And by the way, if I go on to my alerts section.
In order to manage your alert rules, you can go onto alert rules itself here.
If I go on to any rule itself, we have the capability of disabling the rule.
But I told you with suppression we are not trying to disable the rule.
We are just trying to mute the notification.
Now, just as a clean up, since we are kind of done with these two alert rules, I will keep my action
group in place.
I can select both of my rules and click on delete accordingly.
So just performing a clean up when it comes onto the rules.

--- What is a Log Analytics Workspace ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give a brief introduction on something known as a Log analytics workspace.
Then in the subsequent chapters we'll see how to work with this particular resource type.
The log workspace is nothing but a centralized data store where you can collect your resource and your
platform logs.
What we are going to see as an example is we are going to stream logs from our Azure VMs onto a log
analytics workspace.
Sometimes from an admin perspective, from a security perspective, you want to have a central place
for pushing logs.
You can then analyze those logs over time.
Hence the log analytics workspace is that centralized data store that you can use for collecting your
resource and your logs.
You can then query for those logs using something known as a Kusto custom query language Kql.
To collect information from VMs, we would need to use something known as an Azure Monitoring Agent.
We can define data collection rules that can tell to take data, the log data from VMs, and send it
on to the Log Analytics workspace.
The monitoring agent that gets installed on each machine can then be used to collect that data and send
it on to the workspace.
So in the end, the service is very, very simple.
It is to provide a centralized logging solution for your resources.
And then you can query over the data using a language known as Kql or the Kusto query language.
Let's move on to the next chapter and perform the very simple activity of creating something known as
a log analytics workspace.

--- Lab - Creating a Log Analytics workspace ---

So let's perform the very simple operation of creating a log analytics workspace here in all resources
within my Azure account.
I'll click on create in the marketplace I will search for the Log Analytics Workspace service.
So I can see it here from Microsoft.
Let's create a resource based on the service type.
We then get a wizard.
The wizard is very simple.
I'll select my existing resource group.
I'll give a name for the Log Analytics workspace in East US.
There's nothing.
There's only tags and there is review and create.
So it's very simple.
I'll click on create.
It does take less than a minute.
Let's wait till we have the Log Analytics workspace in place.
Once we have the workspace defined I can go on to it.
What's very important is this logs feature.
In this logs feature we will see any logs that get you know are stored here.
What we'll do is we want to take logs from our resources in Azure.
And we want to direct them onto the Log Analytics workspace.
Within this logs feature we should be able to see something known as tables.
So the logs come into tables within the Log Analytics workspace.
And then we can query for the data using Kql the custom query language.
Currently we have not directed any logs to this log analytics workspace.
Hence it is empty.
Let's move on to the next chapter wherein we are going to start creating something known as data collection
rules to take log data from our Azure VMs onto the workspace.

--- Lab - Connecting virtual machine to the workspace ---

Now in the prior chapter we had provisioned a log analytics workspace.
Currently within that workspace there is no information, there are no logs.
We need to stream logs from a particular source or to the Log analytics workspace.
As an example, we are going to create data collection rules that will take data the logs from our underlying
Azure VMs onto the workspace.
In Azure I can go on to data collection rules.
And here we can create a new rule.
Let me just give a rule name.
So this is let's say for my windows based machines I want to collect events.
I will select my resource group in East US.
This rule is for my windows based machines.
So I'll leave it as windows.
There's something known as a data collection endpoint.
This is optional.
I'll go on to next for resources.
I'll click on add and select both of my machines.
I want to stream the logs from both machines.
I'll click on apply.
So I said I want to stream logs from both machines onto the Log Analytics workspace.
I'll click on next for Collect and Deliver.
You are saying that there are no data sources or destinations selected.
I'll click on Add Data source.
Now in terms of the data source.
So since this is a windows based machine we have the ability to collect the performance counters, the
Windows Event logs, Internet Information Services logs.
We can collect custom text logs and custom JSON logs.
So if you have an application that's emitting text logs.
We can collect them as well.
If you need to collect firewall based logs, or if you have Prometheus running on the machines and you
want to collect the metrics, then at that point in time we need the data collection endpoint.
As an example here, let me select Windows Event Logs.
Now what do we mean just for the benefit of students?
What do we mean by Windows Event logs?
I have logged on to one of my servers, and please note that if you are following along in terms of
these chapters, if you have provisioned the machines, make sure to log on to both machines.
This is required after you log on to the machines for the first time, then the agent that's going to
run on these machines will take the logs and send it onto the Log analytics workspace.
If you don't log onto the machines, you won't see any data coming in onto the machines.
Once you log in, then you can go ahead and cancel the session.
That initial login process is required.
So again what do we mean by the windows Event logs.
So at an OS level right.
I am on the server.
If I search for the event viewer.
Service on the windows server itself.
The Windows Server collects a lot of events that are happening at the OS level.
So for example, it collects application based events, it collects security based events, so on and
so forth.
So if someone is trying to log on to the machine, it gets ordered here if there is a success or a failure.
So now let's say from an admin perspective, we have to collect all of these internal OS based logs
from many machines onto a centralized log analytics workspace.
For that, we can define this data collection rule.
We also have these different performance counters that are recorded by windows at an OS level.
So at an OS level, also windows records the CPU utilization, the memory utilization, and so on and
so forth.
Yes, Azure monitoring has a service at the infrastructure layer.
It's able to collect these metrics but inbuilt into operating systems like Windows and Linux.
They also have the capability of understanding the metrics at an OS level in terms of CPU utilization,
memory, etc..
So this is what we want to collect in terms of data.
Okay.
Now going back here.
So let me say just as an example I want to collect the audit success and failure for security.
And maybe from an application the critical and error as I'm just taking an example of what we can collect
next is our destination.
I'll click on add.
Currently the only thing that is supported is Azure Monitoring Logs and our log analytics workspace.
So by the use of this data collection rule we are saying let's take the windows event logs from all
of the machines in our resource group and direct them onto our Log Analytics workspace.
I'll click on Add Data Source.
Go on to review and create and create this data collection rule.
Now please note it could take around 10 to 15 minutes before you can actually see data.
I'll just click on create before you can see data in your Log Analytics workspace.
What you'll need to keep on seeing is if I go on all resources and go on to the Log Analytics workspace
in another tab.
If I go onto the logs.
When I click on select table, you should see some tables on display.
There are some.
See what's happening is data is being streamed now from a virtual machine onto the Log Analytics workspace.
They're going to be stored as records within a table.
There are already predefined table structures in the Log Analytics workspace.
This corresponds onto the known services in Azure.
So these are the common tables.
So each table if I just click on Edit schema and it has its own schema its own structure in place.
This is based on the resource type.
What logs are coming in.
These predefined tables are already in place.
I said it just takes some time.
You will need to wait for around maybe 10 to 15 minutes.
Refresh this entire Log Analytics workspace.
And after some time, you should be able to select a table and then see the information within the table
itself.
So what I will do is I'll wait for around 10 to 15 minutes, and then we'll move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Log Analytics Queries ---

Now waited for around 10 to 15 minutes for the Log Analytics workspace.
Let me refresh the entire page so I'm in the logs section.
If I click on select a table on the log management so we can see a category.
Now under log management I can see two tables.
I can see the event table and I can see a heartbeat table.
We can now fire Kql or custom query language queries against the tables.
Kql is a read only tabular query language that you can use across various Microsoft monitoring and security
products, one of them being the Log Analytics workspace here inside the simple mode.
Let me go on to the Kql mode, where in we can start firing these Kql queries.
If we just want to look at the data within a table, I can just give the table name, click on run.
And now I can see.
Let me go ahead and just hide this.
We can see the different rows of information for each machine.
What we saw in terms of the windows event logs are being recorded in this table for each row of information,
so we can see whatever was collected from the windows event logs.
So what is event Log itself?
What is a computer name?
It is an information type of event.
And what is the event data?
Now just as an example on some queries that we can fire, there are you know, as per the Microsoft
documentation, when it comes onto Kql, there are different functions, different operators that we
can use in Kql to work with our underlying data.
So in the end now I said we have data in the form of tables in the log analytics workspace.
Let's look at some sample queries.
We can pass in different operators or different functions using the pipe symbol.
So we can feed in these functions or operators onto the data that's coming in from the table.
If I take or use a take operator, the take operator returns a specified number of rows.
Now there is no guarantee which records are returned.
It's just taking its sampling 20 rows of information from within the event table.
If I click on run, we should get 20 rows of information accordingly.
Using the pipe symbol, we can, you know further, I can use another pipe symbol to filter on more
information.
If I use the project statement, we can just decide what columns of information should come in the result.
So currently in the result, we are getting all the columns of information that's coming in.
But let's say that I only want to get certain columns of information.
Let me just paste in.
So let's say I just want to get the time the computer.
The event log, the event level name, the event ID and the description.
Click on run.
So now what's happening is we are taking our information, the entire information from the event table
using the first pipe symbol.
We are feeding that information onto the project operator, which is taking in or saying that only display
these columns of information that isn't going through the next pipe symbol.
The take operator will return 20 rows of information.
We can also use the where operator that is used to filter a table to a subset of rows.
For example, if I want to look at or just return those rows of information where the time was, let's
say 30 minutes ago.
I can run this query.
So now we should only be getting the rows of information where in it was, you know, the rows were
generated 30 minutes ago.
It comes onto the event logs table.
We can filter even further Using another rare condition.
Using one of the column names that we have.
Let's say I only want to get the application based logs.
I can click on run.
So currently there are no logs in this specific time window.
When it comes on to this particular event log type, let's say over the last two hours, let's say if
anything has actually come through I'll click on run.
Okay.
Still no logs.
I'm just trying to showcase, um, you know, a query wherein we are taking all of the data from our
event log table.
We are piping it onto a where condition where in based on the time.
Let's get all of that information based on the last two hours.
Are there any application specific events?
So at the moment, no.
In this chapter we're going to give an example on some sample queries that you can actually fire against
the data that you have in your table in your Log Analytics workspace.

--- Log Analytics Queries ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Log Analytics - Alerts ---

In this chapter, I want to give a quick note that you can create an alert based on a particular kql
search within your Log Analytics workspace.
So we know that we can create alerts based on metrics.
We know that we can create alerts based on activity log.
At the same time, you can also create an alert based on a search criteria that you mentioned within
your Log Analytics workspace.
So remember that we are collecting or we can collect data over multiple resources within a centralized
solution of a log analytics workspace.
Let's say that you want to be notified based on any sort of anomalies within the data in the log analytics
workspace.
As an example, if I paste in a query here, I'm taking data from the event table.
I am looking at the data over the last five minutes where the event name is.
You know, the event level name is either an error or in a critical state.
And I'm summarizing all of this information over every five minute window based on the count.
I'm trying to look at the count of events.
We have the summarize operator of this function available in KCL, wherein we can summarize the data
has been collected here over every five minutes.
Base it on account, and we're just grouping it by the computer and the event log.
I may not have any information.
Let me just run this.
So there's no information within this particular time period.
But let's say that you're getting that information.
We can then create a new alert rule here based on that custom log search.
So we can see it here.
If I scroll down we can then put a measurement in terms of the alert rule.
So based on the last five minutes.
You know if there was just one result from that custom log then go ahead and generate an alert.
So this is all about being able to generate an alert based on a search in your Log Analytics workspace.
Want to give this important note in this particular chapter?

--- Lab - Collecting IIS logs from a Windows machine ---

Now, in the prior chapter, I'd shown you how you could configure a data collection rule to collect
the windows event logs and stream it onto a log analytics workspace for windows based machines.
We can also collect the logs when it comes onto Internet Information Services.
So internet Information Services is that role that we can install or configure on a Windows Server machine
that allows it to behave as a web server by default when it comes on to internet information services.
So I'll just, you know, on any windows server, if I go on to the tools, I can open up the Internet
Information Services manager.
So has a utility.
If I click on the internet information services kind of feature running on the machine, click on logging.
And just open up the feature.
We can see that by default whatever logs are generated by internet information services are being stored
on this default location.
Now, let's say again, from that centralized perspective, you want to collect these logs from a stream
of virtual machines.
We can create another data collection rule.
So what I can do is in another tab again let me go.
So what I can do is I can go on to data collection rules.
Again let me create a new data collection rule.
So I want to collect now the logs when it comes onto IIs.
So I'll just give a name.
Select my existing resource group again for windows based machines I'll click on next.
Add resources again.
Let's say I want to collect this data for both of my machines.
So I'll select both of my resources.
Click on Collect and Deliver.
Add my data source.
In the data source type I'll choose IIs logs Since the logs, you know I have not changed the logging
location, the default location for the logs in internet information services.
I can keep the file pattern blank.
It will accept the default location.
You only change this if you have a custom path for logs that are being shared on the windows server.
But I said since I have not made any change, if you go onto the Windows Server, it is the default
location for Internet Information services.
It's only if you have a you know, your own defined location on the server.
At that point in time, we will need to change the file pattern path here.
Add again a destination of my Log Analytics workspace.
Add it as a data source.
Go on to review and create.
And let's create this data collection rule.
Now again, we should wait for some time just to make sure that data is coming in.
I'll click on create.
Also, just make sure that you exercise the URL for both machines.
Just go and take the public IP address.
Just make sure that you are exercising the you know the website going on to the link.
This will generate the logs and the logs then should come up in the Log Analytics workspace.
Now again this will take some time.
I'll wait for around ten minutes and then come back.
I've come back after around ten minutes.
I've refreshed the entire page for my Log Analytics workspace.
If I go onto logs and click on select a table.
Under Log Management I have this w-3.
See this log table in place.
If I click on run we get some information within this table.
These are all of the IIs logs.
The internet Information Services logs across the machines.
They are streaming that log data now onto a separate table in our Log Analytics workspace.

--- Azure VM Insights ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the feature of VM insights when it comes onto the Azure
Monitoring Service.
When it comes onto Azure Monitor, the service has the capability for certain, you know, resource
types to provide more visibility into metrics, insights, performance.
One of them is VM insights.
VM insights supports your Azure VMs, whether it be windows, whether it be Linux, it supports Azure
Virtual Machine scale sets, even the virtual machines that you have, let's say, in your on premises
data centers.
If you want to get a deeper insights onto OS level metrics, if you want to look at a dependency map
of the processes running on VMs, you want to get deeper insights onto the virtual machines.
We can make use of this feature now as an example, if I go onto any VM that I have.
Under the monitoring section we have insights.
I can enable that concept of getting visibility, more visibility into the health and performance of
the virtual machine.
So we can enable it from here.
Or we can also go onto the monitoring service and enable it from there as well.
In another tab, if I go onto the monitoring service under insights, so we can see that we can get
that insights a deeper level insights on virtual machines, on storage accounts, on containers that
runs in Azure, Kubernetes, so on and so forth.
But if we just want to enable it at a virtual machine level, let me click on enable.
In the modern configuration it is creating a data collection rule.
Because in the end, just to get those insights again, it needs to collect data from the underlying
VM and store it in a central location in a log artist's workspace.
Or choose to create a new data collection rule.
I'll just give a simple name.
I'll give a simple name for the data collection rule.
We can enable processes and dependencies, you know, to get that information as well.
And I can stream it onto my Log Analytics workspace and click on create.
So all we're doing is we are enabling getting more performance at a guest level at an OS level.
We are also using this feature to get the processes and dependencies, has a map, and we're directing
all of the logs to go onto our Log Analytics workspace.
I'll click on configure.
Now please note that this will take some time.
I'll wait for around ten minutes and come back and see what information I get.
When it comes on to insights for this virtual machine.
Now I've come back after around ten minutes for my virtual machine.
I've refreshed the entire page.
Go on to insights.
Again, within insights, we now have a performance tab.
In the performance tab we are getting performance in terms of the logical disk performance the CPU utilization.
All of this is now coming in from the OS level.
Yes we can get these metrics in terms of CPU utilization, memory, etc. from the Azure monitoring service
that is at an infrastructure layer, but at an OS layer.
We are getting more information right in terms of performance.
If I go on to map, I might get a map in terms of the processes running on this virtual machine.
So I can see there are seven clients that are trying to connect onto the processes running on this machine.
And these are the port numbers in terms of connectivity.
I said this feature is if you want to get more insights on your virtual machine in terms of performance
and in terms of looking at the processes running on the machine.

--- Azure Monitor cleanup ---

Now from the perspective of Azure Monitor, we are done when it comes onto the AZ 104 perspective.
Now it's time to look at the backup and recovery services on Azure.
We are going to be making use of the same infrastructure.
But before we actually dwell into backup and recovery, I want to perform an entire cleanup.
I want to make sure that we go back at least to our prior state when looking at, you know, when we
go further into the chapters of Backup and Recovery.
Now, before I do perform a cleanup, a quick thing on a virtual machine.
So we've done a lot of, you know, enablement using data collection rules.
If I go on to extensions and applications, just to look at the extensions that got installed, let
me go ahead and just hide this.
So the custom script extension is something that I've enabled as part of the ARM template to install
Internet Information Services.
This we are already familiar with the Azure Monitor Windows agent when we create that data collection
rule to send, you know in the beginning the windows, event logs, and even later on our IIs logs onto
the Log Analytics workspace.
This would install this Azure monitoring agent on each machine.
It would be the agent's responsibility to now transfer the logs onto the Log Analytics workspace.
When we looked at Azure VM insights, in order to generate that dependency across processes, you would
have a separate dependency agent in place.
I just want to let you all know on these important aspects.
Now let's try to remove resources that are no longer required.
Actually, I have my action group in place so I can first of all go on to the action group and delete
this.
This is no longer required.
Then in terms of let me just click on refresh.
Just take some time.
Let me try to delete my data collection rules first.
So we are getting an error in terms of deleting the roots.
Has there.
Let me go on to each and every rule.
So let me go on to the first one.
On to the data collection rule.
Let me try to delete this from here.
So we can do it at an individual data collection rule layer.
So let me delete all of them one by one.
So I just want to kind of get rid of the data collection rules.
I'll just leave my log analytics workspace in place for now.
But let's mark an in onto the chapter.
And now let's move on to looking at the backup and recovery services features that Azure has to offer.

--- What is the Azure Backup feature ---

Hi and welcome back.
In the next set of chapters, we are going to look at how do we protect our workloads when it comes
onto virtual machines, especially we look at how we use the Azure Backup feature when it comes to taking
a backup of workloads running on our VMs.
We'll also be looking at the recovery services part as well.
Now, first and foremost, what is Azure Backup.
This is a cloud native solution that allows you to take backups of the entire VMs, or just the disk
attached to the machine.
You can then restore the data based on different recovery points.
This allows you to recover from accidental deletes if the VMs, for example, get infected with ransomware
or something happens to the machine itself.
If you have a backup in place, you can recover from that backup.
You can define when the backup needs to be taken via something known as a schedule.
The backups are stored in something known as a recovery services vault.
What we'll be doing initially is we'll be creating something known as a recovery services vault.
This is a separate resource on Azure when a backup is taken via the Azure Backup service.
The backups are finally stored in the vault itself.
If we look at the overall process of using the backup feature, we first need to enable backup for an
Azure Virtual Machine, wherein we assign a backup policy.
In this policy, you can define the schedule for the backup.
Is it on an hourly basis, a daily basis, or a weekly basis?
Add these scheduled time based on the policy.
Azure backup takes a snapshot of each match disk.
So this is your OS and your data.
This you also get access to something known as an instance restore.
Snapshots, which are maintained locally for faster restores and backups, are then finally stored in
the Recovery Services vault.
In the next chapters, let's look at how do we make use of Azure Backup feature.
First and foremost, we'll create the Recovery Services Vault.
Then we'll enable the backup for one of the Azure VMs that we have.
We'll then backup the Azure VM itself.
And then finally we look at the different restore operations that we have.
So let's move ahead.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine - Backup - Recovery Services Vault ---

Now to enable the backup of an Azure VM, I can go on to any Azure Virtual Machine.
If I scroll down on the backup and Disaster recovery, I can click on backup.
In terms of backup, it's saying that it's going to create something known as a new backup vault.
In the resource group is something known as a policy subtype and a backup policy.
But what I'll do beforehand is in all resources, let me create a new resource.
We are going to create a resource based on backup and site recovery.
So I'll search for backup and site recovery in the marketplace for the one published by Microsoft.
Let me create a resource based on the service.
Our places in.
My existing resource group give a ward name.
Now what is very important is our VMs are in the East US location.
In order to backup the Azure VMs onto this Recovery Services vault, you would need to make sure that
the vault is in the same location as the virtual machines.
So I'm creating my Recovery Services vault in East US.
In terms of redundancy, I'll just choose locally redundant storage.
If you want redundancy for the backups taken in the vault, we can go ahead and choose let's say geo
redundant storage.
But since I do want redundancy, this is just a very simple demo.
I'll choose locally redundant.
We can by default the data is already encrypted when it is stored in the Recovery Services vault.
If you want, you can use customer managed keys using the Azure Key Vault service, but I will leave
it as Microsoft managed keys.
Leave the other settings as they are.
I'll go on to review and create and let's create our recovery Services vault.
So what I'm doing as a first step before enabling the backup of an Azure VM, I am first creating that
Recovery Services vault.
Let's wait till we have the vault in place.
Once the recovery services vault in place, let me go on to it.
The main purpose of this vault is to store the backup that we are going to enable for our Azure VMs.
Now, before I do enable the backup, what I'll do is I'm going to go to settings.
Go on to the properties of the vault.
Scroll down Under the soft Delete and security settings.
Let me click on update.
This soft delete.
I'm just going to disable this and click on update.
Now please note that don't do this for your production base vaults.
Why am I carrying out this setting just for our demo.
So the backups will be stored in the vault.
Uh, you know, when you want to remove the recovery services vault, you first have to ensure that
there are no backups in place in the vault.
You have to make sure that there are no backup items in place in the vault.
The problem is that when you delete the backup data, it does not get permanently deleted from the vault
because there is that security feature, which is very important in a ward.
Let's say someone accidentally deletes the backup data.
You can recover that backup data again based on that soft delete feature.
But from a demo perspective, if you all want to delete the vault, you cannot do so because that backup
data will still be present.
So even though we delete the backup data because of the setting, if it is enabled, even though we
try to delete that backup data, it will still be present and we will not be able to delete the recovery
services vault.
You will understand this later on once we complete the entire set of exercises in terms of backup for
our resources.
But I said for now, in terms of update or the soft delete, I made sure that they are unchecked.
So let's mark it in onto this chapter wherein we have first built our Recovery Services vault.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine - Backup - Enable Backup ---

Now in the prior chapter, we built our recovery services vault.
Now let's enable the backup for the Azure VM.
I'll just click on refresh.
On the backup page.
Now in terms of the Recovery Services vault I can select our existing one.
There is a backup policy in place if I just choose to create a new policy based on enhance.
So just enhance just has some additional features wherein we can carry out multiple backups per day.
And there are other features as well.
Support for trusted launch Azure VMs.
So we can choose enhanced policy.
If I just click on create a new policy, we have the policy name.
There is a backup schedule.
Currently it is going to take a backup starting at 8 a.m. every four hours.
There is a duration right.
So this is the allowed.
You see the what's happening is the Azure Backup service is taking a backup of your Azure VM.
Obviously, if you have a lot of data, you have a lot of applications running.
It can take time for that backup process.
The duration is kind of the maximum amount of duration that you're allowing for Azure backup to actually
take the backup of the VM.
So 12 hours should be quite sufficient in terms of a window of taking the backup of Azure VM.
So we can have the frequency at an hourly basis on a daily basis or on a weekly basis.
Then comes the retention.
So for the daily backup point that you're taking you can retain that backup for 30 days.
If you are taking a weekly backup you can have a retention for that weekly backup point.
But remember here, obviously you probably will be charged for the amount of storage that the vault
is taking in.
You are taking backups on a regular basis, so probably an hourly backup might be too much in terms
of the machine.
You could probably take a daily backup to start at probably 8 a.m., and then it would continue with
the backup process every day.
There's something known as a retain instant recovery snapshot.
I'll go through this a little bit later on.
And then we have the retention again of the daily backup point.
So it depends upon how you want to create the policy.
For now I'll just click on cancel.
Let's accept the default backup policy, because obviously I'm not going to wait for the backup to continue
as per the schedule.
We are manually going to go ahead and backup our machine.
So this is the policy details.
This is the disk that's part of the VM here.
There's an include future disks.
If you have data disk being attached to the VM at a later point in time that will also be included in
the entire backup, I'll click on enable.
Now when you click this function of Enable Azure Backup, it's not going to start the backup process
for the Azure VM.
The process will start.
The first backup will start based on the schedule you define.
Currently what's happening is Azure is first of all registering this virtual machine with the Recovery
Services Vault.
It will create something known as a backup item.
That item will be bound to that policy.
But there will be no backup being taken at this point in time.
It's only the Pre-configuration where in this VM is being set up.
As you know with the Recovery Services vault.
So the first step is to enable the backup.
This will take some time.
It might take around 5 to 10 minutes.
Let's wait till this is complete and then come back.

--- Lab - Azure Virtual Machine - Backup - Perform initial backup ---

Once the backup is enabled for the VM.
If I go on to the virtual machine again, let's go on to the backup section.
Now when it comes on to the screen, since we have already configured backup to the Recovery Services
vault, we do have the ability to backup the VM now itself, because remember, the backups are only
going to start based on the backup schedule.
At any point in time, we can stop the backup process.
It just giving us an initial warning where in the initial backup is still in the pending state.
So what I will do is let's go ahead and click on backup.
Now there is a retention for this backup.
It is basically one month in the future I'll click on okay.
So now it's triggering the actual backup for the virtual machine.
If we go on to the recovery services vault under protected items.
If I go onto the backup items.
I mean, we can see, first of all, what are the different services that are supported by Azure backup
in terms of the recovery and services?
What there is one item in place for Azure Virtual Machine?
If I go on to it.
We can see that this machine is registered with the Recovery Services Vault.
The backup process will take time.
It all depends also on I said, the workload running on your virtual machine and the amount of data.
If you want to look at the progress of the backup under monitoring, we can go on to backup jobs.
So here we can see that the initial configuring of the backup was done.
It's in progress when it comes onto the actual backup itself.
Now the completion of this backup could take half an hour.
It could take 45 minutes.
What I'll do is I'll wait for around 15 to 20 minutes, and then we'll come back.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Backup - File Restore ---

Now I've come back after some time.
If I click on refresh, I can see that the backup is still in progress.
But if I go on to my Azure VM in the backup feature, let me refresh this entire page.
What I'll notice is the last backup status is a success, and we have something known as a snapshot
in place.
So when it comes on to the entire backup process.
So yes, Azure Backup has started the backup of the Azure VM before it stores that backup in the Recovery
Services vault.
It creates kind of an instant snapshot that's given here.
So this is now a retention point.
We can now perform a quick restore for files or an entire Azure VM using this restore point.
So we don't have to wait for the entire backup to be stored in the recovery services vault before actually
performing an entire restore operation.
You could try this restore point probably after 15 to 20 minutes.
It should come up during that time.
But now that we do have kind of a recovery point in place, I can go on to the context menu.
We can perform either a file recovery or a restoration of an entire virtual machine.
For now, in this chapter, let's choose a file recovery.
So we are using a restore point.
Let me download the executable.
So what it's doing is it's running something known as a script and a password.
We just need to run that script on our local machine.
What this script will do is it will actually map drives.
Since I'm on a windows based laptop, it will map drives onto that recovery point.
Once the script file is ready, I'll click on download.
I'll open up the file.
So it's an exe.
It's asking me for the password.
So let me copy the password here.
This is the password I'll copy it onto the clipboard I'll paste it here.
Here I'll enter.
It opens another command prompt.
I'll need to enter the password here as well.
I'll just right click on the mouse and hit enter.
What it will do is it is now going to I said map drives on my windows laptop onto the recovery point.
What we have to understand is we are not connecting onto our Azure VM.
What has happened is the Azure backup service for the Azure VM.
So it has taken a backup and now that is available has a restore point.
We are now connecting onto this restore point.
And based on this restore point currently we should be able to recover individual files.
So remember that we are not connecting onto the actual VM itself.
Now let's take a minute or two to map all of those drives.
Let me just wait till this is complete.
So after just a minute I now have a new kind of windows drive in place.
I'm also seeing now a recovery drive.
It's coming up and even a local disk drive.
All these three drive letters are now connected onto that recovery services point on my laptop.
I only add the C drive in place if I go onto this individual drive.
These files and folders in Epub double root, right if I go onto this.
This is all based on the files that I have on my Azure VM.
But remember here we are not connecting onto the Azure VM.
We are connecting onto a backup that was taken by the Azure Backup service.
If we want to restore individual files we can choose this option.
Right.
Let's say we've lost a file.
We've accidentally removed some files.
If it's part of the backup, we can actually connect to the restore point and recover those files accordingly.
Okay, now that we're done, I'm going to unmount the disk.
Let's now move on to the next chapter where in we look at another restore operation that is restoring
the entire virtual machine.

--- Lab - Azure Backup - VM Restore ---

In the prior chapter, we looked at one restore operation that we could perform.
So Azure Backup has a service.
It has taken a backup of our VM, and we are able to perform an and we're able to perform a restore
of individual files and folders.
If I just go on to a new tab.
So it's still performing okay.
The command was successful.
So I'll go back onto my VM for the same recovery point.
I can now restore an entire virtual machine.
We have two options here.
We can restore the target to either create an entirely brand new VM, or you can replace the existing
one.
So in Create New, we can perform a side by side recovery wherein Azure creates a brand new virtual
machine.
If we choose replace existing Azure will shut down the current virtual machine that we have.
It will then replace the disk with that in the restore point.
If you're confident you want to roll back the virtual machine onto that previous restore point, we
can select this option when we choose an option to create a brand new virtual machine.
In creating the brand new virtual machine, again we have two options.
Either we create a new VM or we just restore the disk.
That is, that is it.
Later on, we can go ahead and attach these disks onto another VM.
So different options in place.
Again let me just select the option to create a brand new virtual machine.
Let me give a name quickly.
In my same resource group I need a virtual network and a subnet.
Now this wizard also requires something known as a staging location.
This is just used temporarily to, you know, doing the entire restore operation.
I can just select one of the storage accounts that I have.
Click on the restore option.
Right.
So what's happening now?
This service is taking that restore point based on the backup of our VM.
And it's creating a brand new Azure Virtual Machine.
It is triggering the restore for the machine.
If you want to see the status quite simple again go on to your recovery services vault.
Go onto the backup jobs and click on refresh.
You can see the restore operation is now in progress.
But what you'll also notice is the backup process is also complete.
This took around 42 minutes, but this backup process would involve now the copy of that backup onto
the Recovery Services vault.
When we performed restore, that is based on something known as an instant restore point.
Azure backup makes this available if you want to perform a fast restore of the data that you have right
of the backup.
This will again take some time.
Let's wait.
Let's come back once the restore operation is complete.
I've come back after just a few minutes.
The restore operation was complete.
If I now go on to all resources, what I will notice is that there should be a new VM of VM dev test
one.
It has its own network interface.
It has its own public IP address.
So if I go on to VM and let's take the public IP address, go on to a new browser tab.
Let's see if we do get internet information services.
Because by default when a backup was taken for our original virtual machine on that machine, we had
internet information services in place.
And now we can see also on this VM.
It is there.
That means our restore point works as expected.
So we can see that using a restore point based on a backup, we can also restore an entire virtual machine.
Now I want to go through the process of performing an entire cleanup.
First and foremost, I will delete the resources when it comes onto VM Devtest.
I don't require them anymore.
Okay, that's the first step.
Next, going on to the Recovery Services vault, let me refresh this entire page.
So we're kind of done with this part wherein we're looking at a backup of Azure VMs.
Let me go onto my backup items.
Go onto Azure Virtual Machine.
I'll go on to the context menu.
So here also we can see the options of backup now restore VM file recovery.
I will stop the backup process now.
I'll say that I want to delete the backup data I don't recover I don't require it anymore.
I'll select to delete the backup data.
Put in the name of the backup item.
In terms of just the reason, I'll just give others and stop the backup process.
I'm just performing a cleanup at every point in time, because if you don't perform the cleanup of these
backup items, you will not be able to delete your recovery services vault.
In order to delete the Recovery Services vault, you have to make sure that you have no backup items,
no recovery items.
Everything should be wiped clean when it comes onto the vault.
Let's wait till this is done.
We'll just take a minute.
Now, once the operation is complete, let me just click on refresh to make sure that the item is gone.
Yes.
It's gone.

--- Azure Recovery Services Agent ---

Azure backup.
I want to go through the Microsoft Azure Recovery Services agent with the Microsoft Recovery Services
agent.
You can backup and recover individual files, folders, and the volume or system state from either an
Azure VM or an on premises virtual machine.
If you scroll down, if you want to backup the entire Azure VM so we can use the backup feature to the
Recovery Services vault that we had seen earlier on.
But if you need to backup selective files and folders, because we have seen that the backup will back
up the entire VM.
But if you need, you just have the requirement to backup either selected files and folders, or just
backup the volumes or the system.
We can make use of the recovery Services agent.
You need to install the agent on the machine.
Register that agent with the Recovery Services vault, and then you can carry out the backup accordingly.
On this page you will see the different scenarios when it comes on to using the recovery services agent.
In our scenario, what we'll do is I will first of all be installing the recovery services agent on
both machines.
We'll carry out a backup of some files on web one, and then perform a restore of those files on web
two.
So let's move on to the next chapter to see how we can make use of the recovery services agent.

--- Lab - Azure Backup - MARS agent - Taking the Backup ---

Is it as a first step?
Let's imagine the scenario that we have to take a backup of individual files on our VM dev web one machine,
and then later on we have to perform a restore operation of those files on VM dev web two.
So the first step is we need to install the recovery services agent on this machine.
Before that I'm going to go on to my recovery services vault.
I'll go on to the properties of the vault.
Scroll down.
I will download the recovery services agent.
I am downloading that file on my local laptop.
We have to copy this exe onto our virtual machine.
Now, the way that we do this is I'm going to go on to my downloads folder for the remote desktop file
of VM dev web one.
I will right click.
take show more options.
Click on edit.
We can edit the Remote Desktop connection.
Go on to local resources.
Click on more.
In drives I will enable C drive.
What this means is with this Remote Desktop utility, we should be able to copy files from our local
C drive from the laptop onto the virtual machine.
So I'll click on okay and click on connect.
Once I am connected let me open up File Explorer.
When I open up File Explorer.
If I go on to this PC.
So I'm on the windows Virtual machine, I will see a C drive on my work device.
This is a link to the C drive on my laptop.
Now what I'll do is I'll just copy the file from the downloads folder.
Okay, there's one more thing I need to do before I forget going on to the recovery services vault.
I will also download the backup credentials.
This will be required to register the machine with the Recovery Services vault.
So I'll say I'm already using the latest recovery service agent I'll click on download.
We will need to copy both of these files onto the virtual machine.
So the installer and this vault credentials.
So what I'll do is let me now copy this wall credentials and this mass agent installer.
So this is on my laptop.
Let me paste it in a dev folder.
Then on the machine.
Then on the machine I'll just go back onto the dev folder.
I'll see my installer.
I'll select both of the files.
Right click copy them.
I'll copy them onto the temporary drive storage.
Now, this does take a little bit of time, because we are copying files from our laptop all the way
onto the virtual machine in the east US location.
This could take around 3 to 4 minutes.
Now, once the copy is complete, let me start the installer.
In the settings I'll accept the installation folder.
Click on next.
At the moment I do not want to use Microsoft Update.
I'll click on next.
Click on install.
So the first step is the installation of the Recovery Services agent.
After the installation we have to configure it.
We have to connect it onto our recovery services vault.
Once done, I'll proceed on to the registration.
I'll browse for that vault credential file.
Now remember it's on our D drive.
Click on next.
We just have to generate something known as a passphrase to encrypt and decrypt the backups from the
server.
You are seeing that it has to be a minimum of at least 16 characters.
It's kind of like a password.
Just make sure that you know what passphrase you're entering here.
This will be required when you want to recover files on our second virtual machine.
I don't want to save this currently on Azure Key Vault.
I'll just browse it.
I'll just browse for my D drive on my local machine, which is not the correct approach, but this is
just a very simple demo.
I'll click on finish.
It should now register this service with Microsoft Azure Backup.
Once the registration is complete, I'll launch the Microsoft Azure Recovery Services agent.
Now.
on this machine.
So we get the agent.
What I can do now is I can schedule a backup.
Kind of the similar aspect on the Azure backup service, wherein we have a policy that defines our schedule.
Here again, we are defining a schedule to determine, okay, what are the files and folders that we
need to backup and at what schedule.
In this wizard I can click on.
Next we can add items onto this schedule process.
Let's say as an example I want to take a backup of a particular folder in A.net pub on my C drive.
This is of the virtual machine I'll click on okay.
Go on to.
Next we have a backup schedule that we can define on a daily basis.
Or every week I'll click on.
Next.
We can define a retention policy.
A lot of things similar to the policy that we can define in Azure Backup, but this is for the recovery
services agent.
I will click on next.
Transfer over the network.
Click on next.
Click on finish.
It is creating that backup schedule.
I'll click on close.
Again the backup will only be taken based on the schedule.
If we want to take the backup right now itself click on backup now.
Yes, I do want to backup those files and folders based on the location that I mentioned.
I want to retain my backup for a month.
I'll click on next.
These are the backup items and we'll initiate the backup accordingly.
Again a manual way but the backups will be taken as per your schedule.
So now let's wait for this to complete.
Let's move on to the next chap.
Let's see how we can recover data from this backup on our other virtual machine.

--- Lab - Azure Backup - MARS agent - Recovery ---

So I've come back.
The backup was taken successfully.
I mean, like, we don't have that much files in place.
So with this done.
Now, what I've also gone ahead and done is on the second machine that I have, VM dev bep two, I perform
the same steps wherein first, for the Remote desktop connection file, I clicked on edit, made sure
that I could connect onto the C drive on my laptop.
I copied the recovery services agent file and the vault credentials onto the D drive for this machine,
so this is required for the second machine.
So on the second machine, let's recover the files based on the backup taken on our first machine.
Same process I'll need to first start the installer.
Except the default location again all of the same settings.
Then we'll need to again register this machine with the recovery Services vault.
With this agent, we can take a backup of files on this machine as well.
But the only thing that we'll be doing is we'll be performing a restore operation based on the recovery
point taken based on the backup on our dev web.
One machine.
Once.
Then I'll again proceed on to the registration.
Need to browse for that same vault credentials.
So now it's in the on the D drive of this particular machine click on next.
I'll need to again create my own passphrase.
Just click to browse and save it on the D drive again.
Once the registration is done, I'll again launch the Microsoft Azure Recovery Services agent.
This time around, instead of scheduling a backup, I click on Recover Data.
Do you want to recover data based on this machine itself?
If you had conducted a backup of files on this machine, we could do that.
But no, it's on our VM dev web one server.
So I'm going to say another server again.
Browse for the vault credentials which is on my D drive.
Click on next.
We can now see our backup server in place VM dev web one.
I'll click on next.
Now it's saying that we need to enter that passphrase.
This is for that first machine.
Click on next.
We can recover the individual files and folders.
Select that C drive volume.
So we have one recovery point in place in which we can recover our files.
I'll click on mount.
What it's doing is it's mounting a drive now on the virtual machine onto that restore point.
So saying it's mapped a new volume of drive.
I can click on browse.
It's open up the drive.
This f drive connects on to that restore point.
And I can see my files in place within that folder based on the backup that we had mentioned on our
first server.
So in these set of chapters let's click on unmount.
Mount.
In these chapters, I just want to showcase how we can use the recovery services agent.
Now it's time for a cleanup again.
I'm going to go on to my recovery services vault.
Let me refresh this entire page.
Let's go on to the backup items.
I can see there's one for the Azure backup agent.
I'll click on this in terms of the backup items.
Go on to the context menu.
Okay.
It's not there.
Let's click on View Details.
So we only have information currently about the backup items.
Nothing that we can do.
So if I click on the context menu nothing is happening.
So let's go back onto Recovery Services Vault.
Click on Backup infrastructure.
We have Azure Backup Agent in place.
Let me go on to it.
For VM dev web one go on to the context menu.
Again, nothing is there.
Let me click on the item itself.
I'll click on delete.
I need to give what is a server name the whole thing give a reason.
Just to complete it.
Testing.
It saying there's a backup data of one item with this server.
I'll click on delete.
Making sure.
Just making sure we are performing a clean up.
Going back onto our protected servers.
Let me click on the second one.
Delete.
Take the name.
Place it here.
Others.
And click on delete.
Right.
So this marks the end of the series chapters in which we looked at the Recovery Services agent.

--- Azure Backup Reports ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Azure file share backup ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how you can enable backup for file shares within your Azure
Storage account.
So what I've done is for an existing Azure storage account, I just create a very simple file share
for the file share.
I'll just go on to browse.
I have just uploaded some bicep based files here.
I have the backup section.
You can also configure the backup when you create the file share.
I can select my existing recovery services vault.
It will create a new backup policy.
This is a full backup that occurs daily at a particular time.
And there is a retention backup taken every day.
Again, you can go ahead and change the policy if required.
Now, to protect your snapshots against accidental deletion of the storage account we can enable this
lock.
But just for this demo I will disable it and click on Enable Backup.
Again, the same concept.
Here it is only registering the storage account and the file share with the Recovery Services vault.
The backup will only be taken as per the schedule.
Let's wait for this to complete the enablement of the backup.
Once the backup is enabled.
It's actually taking us onto the recovery Services vault.
But what I'll do is let me go on to my storage account.
Go on to the file shares, go onto the share itself.
Go on to backup where it should be enabled.
But then it's still giving us that status that the initial backup is pending.
I'll click on backup.
Now again the retention click on okay.
It's now triggering the backup for that file share.
If you want to look at the progress we can click on View Jobs here itself.
It will take us onto.
Let's click on refresh all of the backup jobs.
I can see that it just took around five seconds to take the backup of that Bicep file share.
Is that the case?
Let's go back here.
Go on to backup.
And yes, it is saying that the last backup status is a success.
And we do have a snapshot in place.
So now what all can we do.
Well we can restore the entire share or we can also perform a file recovery.
So as an example, if I go onto browse let me delete.
Certain files or just remove two files okay.
Now going on to the backup section again I can go on to File recovery.
We can select our snapshot restore point.
Click on okay.
are the files that we want to recover from that restore point so I can recover the files that I just
removed.
Click on select.
Do you want to overwrite the existing.
Yes.
I mean the files are not even there.
Click on restore.
It's triggering the restore for that share.
And I don't think this should take time as well.
If I go on to browse after some time, I can see my files in place.
So quite a simple process in terms of having backups and restoring files within your files.
Remember you can also restore the entire file share as well.
Now as always, we need to perform a cleanup.
Right.
It's still doing that restore.
It's already done in another tab.
Going on to my recovery services vault.
Let's go on to backup items and see if we have anything in backup items.
I can see I Azure storage.
Azure files.
Let's see if we need to do anything here on the context menu.
Yes, we can go ahead and stop the backup.
So that's the first step.
I will delete the backup data.
Just give the name of bicep the name of my share.
Stop the backup.
This is the first thing.
Let's wait till this is done.
Once done, let me click on refresh to make sure that I don't have the backup item in place that's done.
Another thing that we need to do is we need to go on to the backup infrastructure under the Azure storage
accounts.
I will need to unregister this particular storage account from the Recovery Services vault.
Just making sure that we perform a cleanup right now that we are done, let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Azure Web App backup ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the point that we can also backup and restore our apps
in the Azure App Service.
This backup and restore is supported in the basic, standard, premium and the Azure tiers here.
If I just scroll down, you will look at what all is available.
When it comes onto the backup feature itself, we can mention a frequency for the backup.
We can mention a retention.
We can then restore the backup.
It's actually quite a simple process if you want to take a backup of your web application at any point
in time that's running in the Azure App Service, we can make use of the backup feature, and then we
can restore the web app at any point in time.
I just recommend you to go through this documentation link just to understand the backup and the restore
feature.
This is just an additional option.
As part of this section, it was important to cover the backup and restore of an Azure VM, but since
this is also available for Azure Web Apps as well, this backup and restore feature, please go through
this documentation page.
I just want to give this quick note.

--- Azure Site Recovery ---

Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter, I want to give an introduction when it comes on to Azure Site Recovery.
And then later on we'll see how to enable replication for Azure VM.
Azure Site Recovery is Azure's disaster recovery service.
This service can replicate workloads from a primary onto a secondary location.
You can replicate workloads on Azure VMs or from your on premises servers as well.
Onto Azure.
Azure Site recovery again makes use of a Recovery Services vault for replication.
When you compare this with the backup process, we get a lower recovery point objective and a lower
recovery time objective.
Okay, now what is the entire purpose behind Azure site recovery?
Now let's consider that you have enabled.
Let's go back onto Azure backup.
Let's say you've conducted a backup of an Azure VM.
Now we do know that the backup does take time.
Okay.
That's the first thing.
Depends upon the amount of data that you have on the VM itself on the disk.
Secondly a backup can be taken once or twice in a day.
So let's say that you take a backup at 9 a.m. in the morning.
Okay.
And the backup is completed by, let's say, ten.
So now you have data till ten in the morning, somewhat around that time, a little bit before that
of the VM.
And then you keep on, let's say adding data, changing the data on the VM itself.
Now if the VM crashes for any reason let's say at ten in the night and you need to recover data.
All the data between this time is lost.
The only backup that you have is before ten, right?
So all of this data is lost.
You will need to go ahead and selectively recover this data, some in some form or the other.
So here the recovery point objective right.
It's a little bit further down the line because you cannot recover anything that's closer to the time
that the VM crashed.
Another thing is the time.
When you want to recover from a backup.
Now for us the restores work quite fast because we don't have much running on our VMs.
But when you have large workloads running on VMs, the restore operation can again take time.
It could take ten minutes, 20 minutes, half an hour if a company is running a critical workload on
a set of machines, and they need to recover as soon as possible with backup and restore.
The problem is they cannot recover to the most recent point in time.
That's one problem.
Secondly, it takes time with Azure site recovery.
What you can do is let's consider a VM in East US.
You can continuously replicate data onto a secondary region.
What's the benefit.
So the first is the recovery point objective.
So here the data is continuously being transferred from the source onto the destination.
So it's not only about backups being taken at one time.
It's like at every time.
Whatever is the change data is being replicated on to the destination.
Let's say that this VM goes down.
You can quickly recover a new VM because you have the most recent data.
And since the data is already present within no time, you can get your secondary machine up and running.
So from a recovery point objective and a recovery time objective, it's low because you can recover
to the most recent point in time and it doesn't take time to recover.
So these are the benefits when it comes onto Azure site recovery.
Companies will need to choose either option based on costs.
Backup will not take that much of a cost.
Here we have to consider the cost of data being replicated continuously across regions.
So there is a bandwidth cost.
There is a storage cost as well, so we have to consider that.
Also, you will have resources in the secondary location on standby at any point in time when you want
to recover.
You can easily recover the machines.
It all depends upon the how critical the workload is, how critical the application is.
If the company loses money, then the application is down.
Then they can consider using Azure Site Recovery.
If it's not a critical workload, if you can.
If you don't mind taking time, if it does not need to be the most recent backup, then you can opt
for the Azure Backup service.
Now, in the subsequent chapters, I want to go through an example on how we can enable replication
for an Azure VM.
We already have a set of VMs in place.
Let's see how we can enable replication for an Azure VM and how we can perform something known as failover.
So let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Site Recovery - Azure VM - Enabling replication ---

Now in this chapter, let's see how we can enable replication for an Azure VM.
As an example, if I go on to VM dev web one, we can go on either machine.
So far we have looked at the backup feature.
We can now go on to disaster recovery.
And it's saying Welcome to Azure Site Recovery.
We can choose a target region when it comes onto our replication process.
So just to make this simple, I'll just choose East US two as our region of choice.
Go on to next for the advanced settings.
In the advanced settings, there's a lot going on.
It's creating a new VM resource group.
It's creating a new virtual network or machines.
It has understood that our current machines are part of an availability set.
If I scroll down, there are some storage settings in place.
It is creating something known as a new storage account that's going to be used for caching.
What's happening is this wizard is making everything ready so that at any point in time, if we want
to perform a recovery process, we can quickly have a virtual machine running in no time in the target
region.
It will have a resource group in place.
It will place our replicated VM, our replica VM, basically in that resource group.
It's also creating a new virtual network and a subnet in the target region.
So it's keeping everything ready so that at any point in time when we want to perform something known
as a failover, we want to know based on the replication, we want to have a new VM in place.
It's there.
The storage account is just used as a cache storage account Want to copy the data from the source region
onto the destination.
If I scroll even further down.
So there is a standard replication policy in place, and there's something known as an automation account.
I'll leave all the settings as they are.
I'll go onto next for review and start replication.
So it's saying here that we have to create a new automation account.
I'll click on create to proceed to enable replication.
So it's creating something known as an Azure Automation account.
Once done now I'll click on review and start replication and we'll start the replication process.
So now what's going to happen is first of all this service will provision resources in the target region
to keep everything ready.
If you whenever you want to perform a failover everything is in place.
Then it will start the initial replication, wherein a snapshot of each managed disk is copied onto
the target region.
All of this is going to take time.
It might take around 15 minutes, 15 to 20 minutes before you can have your initial replication done.
So this is for the data that's being transferred from the source onto the destination location.
Let's wait and come back.
Let's wait till we have some sort of replication in place to look at the status.
Just go on to web one machine to see the status.
Go on to your VM dev web one machine.
Again, go on to disaster recovery.
So currently it's still showing that concept wherein we need to enable Azure site recovery.
But after around 5 to 10 minutes go ahead and refresh this entire page.
Let's mark it in onto this chapter and let's move on to the next.

--- Lab - Azure Site Recovery - Azure VM - Performing the failover ---

I've come back after around ten minutes.
Please note that the replication is still not complete at this point in time.
It has just gone ahead and created the required resources so I can see that in the target location.
If I just kind of sort on location in East US two, I can see an OS disk in place, I can see an availability
set, I can see the virtual network, another recovery services vault, and the automation account.
There is another storage account, the cache storage account in East US.
So all of these resources are now just been deployed in our target region.
And you'll understand this when we perform the final failover of our VM.
But what's happening right now is you will see going back here there is a status.
The replication health is healthy, but it's 0% synchronized.
There is no recovery point in place.
We have to wait for 100% synchronization before we can do a failover of our machine.
So this might again take some time.
I'll wait for around ten minutes and then come back.
Now I came back after around 20 minutes.
I had to wait till the status was protected.
We now have a recovery point objective.
The latest has just 38 seconds ago.
We should now be able to quickly perform something known as a failover.
So let's imagine that our virtual machine that is holding on to VMs.
So now as an example, let's say that a company is hosting a critical application on VM dev web one.
This machine goes down.
We are not able to recover the data from the machine.
The company quickly wants to get the application up and running.
Now what they can do is they can perform a quick failover.
By performing a failover, you will get a fully functional virtual machine with the data has latest
has 38 seconds ago up and running in a destination region because Azure site recovery everything is
in place.
If you go on all resources in the east US two location, we have everything ready.
The only thing that is remaining is to have a virtual machine in place, and that also will be very
simple.
The disk is already being replicated from the source onto this particular target region.
Hence all Azure site recovery needs to do is to create a VM and attach this disk.
make it part of the baby set.
We can perform either a test failover if we just want to test the changes.
If you want to test if failover works as expected, we can perform a test failover or we can perform
the actual failover as well.
So as an example, if I perform a test failover.
We already have our source and our destination.
We're using the latest processed recovery point.
We will be choosing the target virtual network in the target region and click on Test Failover.
So what's happening right now is Azure site recovery is just creating a new a brand new virtual machine
in East US two.
It will just attach the disk and you'll have a VM running in a matter of minutes.
Let's wait till this is complete.
I'll just come back after a couple of minutes.
And by the way, if you want to look at the progress of the recovery, Be.
Just click on this starting the task to perform the test.
Failure of the virtual machine.
You'll be taken onto the test.
Failover.
The site recovery job.
You'll see it's in the process of creating the virtual machine.
Once everything is done.
If I now go on to virtual machines, I can see a VM dev web one test machine in place.
And this would be an exact replica of our primary virtual machine.
The only thing is this recovery job does not give a public IP address.
You can always have a post-deployment script in place that can attach the public IP address accordingly.
But what this has done is within a matter of minutes, you will have a virtual machine running in the
target location based on Azure site recovery.
So this allows for quick recovery of workloads running on Azure.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Azure Backup Vault - Azure VM ---

I spotted the Azure Backup service.
We have looked at the site recovery vault using the Site Recovery Vault.
We can perform VM backups entire VM backups using the Azure Backup service.
We can also use the Recovery Service agent to perform backups of individual files and folders, the
files and system state.
There is another resource in Azure known as the Backup Vault.
The Backup Vault can be used for backing up individual.
Manage this for your Blobs and Azure database for PostgreSQL.
So with the Recovery Services Vault, there's a lot that we can already do.
And mostly you might opt for using a recovery services vault.
But if you want simplified backups of I suggest let's say your managed disk assigned to virtual machines
or onto blobs, or onto just specifically Azure Database.
For PostgreSQL, we can make use of something known as a backup vault.
Let's look at an example on how we can back up an Azure VM.
The process is again quite similar, but in the end it's taking a backup of the underlying disk.
Now, in order to work with backup walls, I'll need to go onto the backup walls service.
Here I can create a new backup vault.
Quite simple.
Again, I'll select my existing resource group.
Just give a name for the backup vault.
In East US terms of redundancy, I'll keep it simple.
I'll choose locally redundant storage.
Go on to next so we can enable soft delete.
But I'll just disable this.
So I'm just disabling soft delete so that we can go ahead and actually delete the backups once they're
complete.
Once we're done with that exercises.
Go on to review and create and let's create the backup vault.
Now before we can actually carry out the backup of Azure VMs, we will need to assign roles.
So another thing that's available with the backup vault is in order for the wall to be able to take
a backup of virtual machines, we will need to assign two roles.
We will need to assign the role of the disk backup reader and the disk snapshot contributor role.
These roles we will assign it at the resource group level.
We need to assign this role onto our backup vault.
So by default now so I have my backup vault in place.
And if I go on to manage.
So we have backup instances.
We have policies.
If I click on backup so we can see that the supported types are we can take backups of Azure disks,
Azure Blobs, Azure database for PostgreSQL servers, Kubernetes, Azure database for Postgres SQL flexible
servers.
What are in preview is Azure Database for MySQL elastic San volumes and Azure Data Lake Storage.
So before we can configure the backup, what I will need to do is I will need to go on to my resource
groups.
Go on to the resource group that contains my backup vault.
Go on to access control.
I need to add a role assignment.
In the role assignment I will search for.
The role of the disk backup reader role.
I'll select this role.
Click on next.
If I click on Manage Identities and click on Select members in the type, we should see one of the backup
vault.
So by default when we create the backup vault, that wizard will also create an identity in Microsoft.
Enter ID that maps onto this resource.
So I will select that backup vault, click on select go on to review and Assign and Assign.
This one thing is a disk backup reader, the other one is a disk snapshot contributor role.
So I need to again go on to adding a role assignment.
Here I will search for the Disk Snapshot contributor role.
I'll click on next again manage identities.
Select members.
Select my backup vault.
Select the vault accordingly.
Click on select.
Go on to review and assign and review and assign this accordingly.
So this is the first step.
We need to have roles in place.
Once you have roles in place, we can then enable the backup for an Azure VM.
So what I'll do is I'll go back onto my vault.
I'll just refresh this entire page.
Let's click on backup.
Let me just quickly go back just to make sure in terms of the properties of the vault.
In terms of soft delete okay.
It is disabled is making sure of this okay.
Now going back on to the overview.
Let me create a new backup.
So this is based on Azure Disk.
Click on next.
We don't have a backup policy.
Let's create a new one.
Just give a simple name.
Click on next.
We have defined the schedule and the retention.
We can leave the frequency hazardous.
So every hour.
We have a retention.
Click on review and create and create this backup policy.
So again the backups will be taken as per this policy.
Go on to next I'll add my data sources so we can see all of the disks that are part of that resource
group.
Let me as an example choose VM dev web two the disk, the OS disk assigned on to this virtual machine.
So we can now individually backup this assign onto machines.
Click on next.
So I need to go ahead and just validate.
Once the validation is complete I'll click on next and configure the backup process.
What I'll do is let's mark an end onto this chapter and let's move on to the next.

--- Azure Backup Vault - Blobs ---

Now, after around five ten minutes, what I've done is I've come back.
If I go on to my backup instances in the keyword, in the backup keyword, I can see that protection
is configured for my OS level disk, but understand that the backup will be taken as per the policy.
But if we go on to the context menu, what we can see is we can create a backup.
Right now we can perform a restoration process.
We can stop the backup, we can delete it.
So all of this is still kind of the similar concepts onto the Azure Site Recovery Services vault.
In this chapter I want to showcase how we can take a backup of blobs in Azure Storage in an Azure Storage
account.
I have a blob container in place in this blob container.
I have just uploaded some bicep based files has blobs.
If I want to take a backup of this blob data, I can click on Add Backup.
This time choose Azure Blobs in Azure Storage or sorry before that, even for Azure Backup Vault.
In terms of blobs, we need to add a role.
The role that we need to grant is the storage account backup contributor role.
So for the Azure Storage account let me go on to access control.
Let me add a role assignment.
So in terms of the role it is the storage account backup contributor role.
I'll click on next.
Again manage identities.
Select my members.
Select the backup vault.
Go on to review and assign and review and assign the role accordingly.
Once done let me try this.
Let me go on to next.
Now we do need to create a new backup policy because this policy is now specifically for the blobs in
the storage account.
I'll click on next.
It has its own schedule and retention.
I'll accept the default settings.
Go on to review and create.
And let's create just this backup policy.
Click on next.
In Data Sources I'll click on add.
Go on to that storage account.
Click on select.
Once the validation is complete here you can see that by default it is selecting to backup all containers.
But you can also browse the containers that we want to backup.
I only have one.
I'll just leave it as backup.
All containers.
Again it's just performing that backup readiness check in progress.
Once the validation is complete, I'll click on next.
And then we can configure the backup.
And that's it.
Again, the backup in place.
It will be as per the schedule.
We can back up now, and then we can perform a restore at any point in time.
Now, I'm not going through the process of the actual backup and restore, because it's quite similar
to the process when it comes onto the site.
The recovery services vault.
Okay.
Now that we are done just to perform a clean up.
Okay, this is done.
Let me just click on refresh.
For my instances.
At the moment.
It is showing the one for the storage account.
But if I put the data source as Azure Disk.
Go onto the context menu.
Let me stop the backup.
And as always delete the backup data.
Just copy this.
Once this is done.
In terms of the data source.
Now let me again choose Azure blobs.
Same thing.
Let me stop the backup.
Delete the backup data.
And when this is done, we can just go on to our backup vault and delete the vault accordingly.
Now that I'm almost done with this particular section, I will delete my entire resource group, so
I'll make sure I perform an entire cleanup.
I'll delete all resource groups so that it deletes all resources.

--- Section Summary ---

Right now in this chapter, let's have a quick summary of what we have learned in this particular section
when it comes to monitoring and maintenance.
So in monitoring we looked at the Azure Monitoring Service.
This is a platform service that collects, stores, analyzes and acts on the telemetry data from Azure
Based Resources and your applications.
Here it can ingest the platform, the application signals, you can store them as metrics.
And within a log analytics workspace you can analyze the log analytics tables of data with Kql, the
custom query language.
You can act using alerts, action groups, and automation.
We have the activity log that records the control plane events in your subscriptions.
Every create update delete operation on Azure Resources is recorded here.
You can use it to investigate deletions, policy effects, and service health incidents for retention
and analytics.
You can export it via the diagnostic settings to a Log Analytics workspace and Azure Storage Account,
or an event hub.
When it comes onto the Azure Monitoring Alerts.
Alerts, turns, metrics and logs and platform events into notifications.
We can define an alert based on different signal types.
For example, we have alerts based on metrics.
This can be based on the metrics emitted from your Azure based resources.
We have metrics that can be defined on activity log or even alerts based on the data coming in in a
log at workspace.
We can define the scope, the condition, the frequency and severity, and then have an action group
in place for email, SMS, logic apps, etc. We can also use action rules to mute alert notifications
during maintenance or expected noise without turning the alerts off.
The Log Analytics workspace is an Azure Monitor data store for logs.
Here, your Azure resources your servers can send its telemetry and log data onto this workspace.
You can then query the data via the use of Kql or the custom query language.
You can visualize the data using workbooks and trigger log alerts.
Here you pay based per the ingested gigs.
You can set daily caps and retention to make sure that your machines actually send data onto the Log
Analytics workspace.
Use the Azure Monitoring Agent on Windows and Linux.
We then define data collection rules.
This defines what to collect.
You know in terms of some examples are windows Event logs, your performance counters, etc. and you
can send it on to the Log Analytics workspace.
So what data can we collect from machines?
We can collect windows events.
This goes on to an events table.
We can collect the events from Linux based machines.
We can collect performance counters.
We can collect logs or even logs in just via custom applications.
Then we have the Azure Backup service.
This is Microsoft's cloud native backup service that helps to protect Azure resources and selected on
premise and other cloud workloads.
You have the Recovery Services Vault that is used for storing the backup data.
We have the backup vault that can be used in scenarios like Azure Disk Backup and Azure Blob Backup
recovery services.
Vault stores the VM recovery point and has policies.
Azure backup snapshots the VM and moves the data backup data onto the Recovery Services Vault.
Azure backup enables the backup extension on the VM, takes a snapshot, and then transfers the data
onto the recovery services.
Vault has a recovery point.
You have Instant Restore that keeps short term snapshots to speed up restores.
You can define policies within the policy.
You can define a schedule and a retention.
We can also use the Microsoft Azure Recovery Services agent.
This can be used to backup individual files and folders on windows based machines, and then save them
onto a recovery services vault.
The different restore options.
So we have the File Restore.
We can restore individual files.
For this.
We have to download a script and then we can copy the files as required.
We're going to perform an entire virtual machine or a disk restore.
Here we can create a new VM, restore the individual disks or replace existing disks.
We can protect our Azure files also by the use of a recovery Services.
Vault.
Azure backup handles the snapshots, and we can perform a restore of the entire share or individual
files.
Azure Site Recovery is Microsoft disaster recovery that helps to replicate Azure VMs to another Azure
region, and lets you failover and failback with minimum downtime.
The key components are.
You have the Recovery Services vault.
Again, this is a control plane for the replication, the policies, the failover and the recovery plans.
Then you have the Mobility Service extender that's installed on each VM.
This is what tracks the disk writes in terms of replication.
We have the cache storage in the source region.
This writes the data to the cache storage account before it is streamed onto the target storage region
where recovery points are created.
And then we have the target resources itself.
So in this chapter, I want to have a quick summary of the important points that we have covered in
this particular section.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
