

=== Introduction ===


--- Important Course Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Slides and Diagrams download ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Describe Azure architecture and services - Azure compute ===


--- How are we approaching the course objectives ---

Now again, a very warm welcome to students onto this particular course where we are preparing ourselves
to take on the certification exam of Azure Fundamentals.
That's AZ 900.
I'm on the official page when it comes onto the certification itself.
If I scroll down.
I actually want to go onto the official study guide.
This particular course is based on the official study guide.
When we click on this link, we are taken on to a page wherein we can see what are the skills that are
being measured as part of this exam.
Here we can see that there are three categories when it comes onto the objectives.
We have describe cloud concepts.
Describe Azure architecture and services.
Describe Azure management and governance.
Then under each main heading we have subheadings and we have the objectives.
For example in cloud computing we have define cloud computing we have defining the shared responsibility
model.
So on and so forth.
Now how are we going to approach these objectives?
Well, I'm going to start with the basics.
I'm going to have a quick introduction on what is cloud computing.
But after that I am directly going to go on to how do we create something known as an Azure free account.
We are here to learn about the Azure platform.
How do we use services on Azure?
Because that's important from an exam perspective.
So first I'll give a brief introduction onto cloud computing.
And then from there we'll jump on to using the Azure platform.
If I scroll down I'm going to go on to actually describe Azure compute and Networking services.
So we'll start with a section wherein I'm going to go through virtual machines.
I'm going to go through virtual machine scale sets, a baby sets, so on and so forth.
As per the objectives, we have to understand the basics around using these services.
So first I want to go through using the various services that Azure has to offer.
and then after that, I will go through.
Okay.
What are you know, what is infrastructure as a service?
What is platform as a service?
What are the benefits of high availability?
What is the shared responsibility model?
The reason I'm going in this particular flow is I want you all to first understand the services that
Azure has to offer, the basic services.
Once we get our hands dirty in understanding how these services work, you'll get a better understanding
on what exactly is the shared responsibility model.
What exactly do we mean by consumption based model?
What are the benefits?
What exactly is high availability?
What exactly is scalability?
So on and so forth.
Hence, I said first what I want to do is I first want to cover.
I want to get our hands dirty and cover the Azure based services.
And then we'll go through these core concepts.
So in this chapter I first want to go through how are we going to approach the objectives of the exam
in this particular course.


=== Describe Azure architecture and services - Networking ===


--- Using a cloud computing platform ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give just a brief introduction when it comes onto cloud computing.
In this course, we're going to be looking at using services on Azure when it comes onto cloud computing
itself.
In this chapter, I first want to give a quick introduction.
Cloud computing is the delivery of compute services over the internet.
Here you get access to services that can allow you to deploy compute machines whose databases build
and deploy applications.
Initially on the Azure platform, we're going to see how to use the virtual machine service when it
comes to deploying compute machines.
Then later on, we look at other services like Azure Web Apps, Azure SQL databases, so on and so forth.
Now there are many benefits when it comes to using cloud computing platforms, and you'll understand
these benefits as we start using services on the Azure platform.
The first most important benefit is the cost.
See, when it comes all the cost, you're going to pay anything up front.
You pay only based on the usage.
Next is the speed at which you can deploy applications.
So you can deploy applications much faster because you are able to provision Provisioned infrastructure
on an on demand perspective.
And you get access to the latest hardware and software services.
Just some of the advantages when it comes onto cloud computing platforms.
You know, as an example, when it comes onto the costing aspect, before the advent of cloud platforms,
if a company had to deploy applications.
So let's say a company had to deploy an e-commerce application.
Obviously, the development team would write the relevant code and build the application.
But when it came time to deploy the application, the company would need to invest money in buying servers
and buying storage, setting up the network, setting up data centers.
All of this would cost money, so there would be an initial sum of money that the company would need
to invest in order deploy applications.
But one of the biggest benefit of a cloud platform is a company does not need to invest that initial
amount of money when it comes onto building infrastructure.
Right?
In this chapter, I want to give a quick introduction when it comes onto cloud computing.


=== Describe Azure architecture and services - Storage ===


--- Introduction to Azure ---

In this chapter, I want to give a quick introduction onto the platform that we're going to be using
in this particular course.
And no surprise there, since we are learning for the AZ nine exam, we're going to be exploring how
to use services on the Azure platform.
The Azure platform has a whole list of services on offer.
If you actually go on to the products page, you have products in different categories.
So for example, you have services when it comes onto AI, machine learning, you have services when
it comes onto hosting databases, you have services when it comes onto compute, when it comes onto
containers, so on and so forth.
I explained about the various advantages in the prior chapter.
When it comes on to using a cloud computing platform, the first thing was the cost.
Another important aspect on another important advantage when it comes on to using cloud platforms is
you get access to the latest services.
See for example, you have that concept of AI or artificial intelligence.
This is being used in practically every industry.
Every company is looking towards building solutions that makes use of AI.
So whether it be the healthcare industry, whether it be companies that want to improve customer experience,
every company is looking towards building solutions that makes use of AI in some form or the other.
When you look at Azure has a cloud platform they are introducing on a daily basis.
Features.
When it comes onto usage of AI on their platform, they have a whole list of products that you know,
gives you the advantage or gives you the ability to use AI within your solutions.
So when it comes to cloud computing platforms, it's not only cost that's an advantage, you get access
to the latest services.
So instead of a company trying to use the latest in trying to spend time in building the latest product,
they can actually make use of services that cloud platforms have to offer.
You can actually go through this entire page when it comes onto Azure.
So I said as part of this course, what we're going to be doing is we're going to be building something
known as Azure Free Account.
And then we'll start exploring services.
But as an initial point, if you want to look at the products that are on offer, you can actually go
on to the home page of Azure and explore the products accordingly.


=== Describe Azure architecture and services - Databases ===


--- The Azure Free Account ---

Now in this course, I'm going to be going through the services that Azure has to offer.
If you want to follow along, you can actually go ahead and create something known as Azure Free Account.
You can get started very quickly using Azure based services.
They provide the facility where you can get started for Azure with Azure for free.
Here on the home page, if I click on Get Started with Azure, this will take me on to the option where
we can try Azure for free.
And I said we can create something known as an Azure Free account.
Let me scroll down.
The Azure Free account is available only to new Azure customers.
Here you get freely monthly amounts when it comes onto using popular services.
You also get $200 worth of free credit that you can use on your Azure services that's available for
30 days.
So let's say that you are using a service that has a cost associated with using the service itself.
The usage, you know, the cost usage can be deducted from that $200 worth of free credit.
So you get this $200 worth of free credit that you can use to explore what services Azure has to offer,
and the credit is valid for 30 days.
If I scroll on down, you'll see some of the services that you do get for free when it comes onto the
Azure Free account.
For example, if you are using the Virtual Machine service, we are going to be looking at using this
particular service in the next section.
So with the virtual machine service, if it's based on, let's say windows, you get 750 hours free
per month, you know, for a particular instance type.
Again, we'll go through these concepts as we go through services on the Azure platform.
So there's certain services that you do get for free.
So you can actually go through this list to understand the services that you do get for free.
If I scroll down even further, I want to go on to the FAQs.
Now very important, do go through these frequently asked questions, because students do ask me various
doubts when it comes on to creating this Azure free account.
In order to create the Azure Free account, you will need to provide either a credit card or a debit
card and a phone number.
So Microsoft uses the phone number and the credit card or debit card details to identify the verification
to validate the account holder.
They want to validate that we are indeed real people and not bots who are trying who are trying to create
this Azure free account.
Hence, in order to create the Azure Free account, we will need to have a credit card or a debit card
in place and a phone number.
Now what happens?
You know, once I utilize my $200 worth of free credit.
So after this, Azure will prompt you saying that, okay, your $200 worth of free credit is over.
Do you want to continue using Azure based services?
If you want to continue using Azure Based services, you can do so.
You will then need to convert on something known as a pay as you go pricing, where you only pay based
on how much you use during the initial 30 days.
When you do get that $200 worth of free credit, you will not be charged, right?
If I said if there's any charge when it comes to using a service, it will go against that $200 worth
of free credit.
So go to this page to understand all the important concepts when it comes on to creating the Azure Free
account.
In the next chapter, I'll go through an example on how we can create such a free account.


=== Describe cloud concepts ===


--- Creating an Azure Free Account ---

Right.
So let's see how we can create an Azure free account.
Now currently in hand I have a Gmail account in place.
I'm going to use that to try and register myself to create an Azure free account.
We can also use a GitHub account as well to register for an Azure free account.
I've also got my phone readily available and a credit card here.
Let me try Azure for free.
Now please note that I am not a new Azure customer.
I have already created an Azure free account earlier on.
Hence, I won't be able to get that $200 worth of free credit for 30 days.
But that's fine.
My job is to teach you about the various services that Azure has to offer for you.
If you are newly signing in on Azure, you are a new Azure customer.
You will indeed get that $200 worth of free credit that you can use for 30 days.
I'm going to go ahead and use an email ID that I have.
So I said I do have a Gmail account in place.
Let me click on next.
It's saying that we can't find an account with that username.
name it's telling me.
First, please go ahead and create a new Microsoft account.
So what I'll do is let me click on create a new account, create a new Microsoft account, and I'll
say yes, I do want to create a new account using my existing Gmail account.
I'll click on next.
It's in a verification email to my Gmail account.
Let me go ahead and see if I've got yes, I have got a code.
I'll go ahead and put in that code.
So I've gone to my email address.
I've got a code.
Now I need to add details about myself.
So let me go ahead and add the details accordingly.
Add the details.
Click on the next button.
Ask me to give the name that I want to assign to my Microsoft account.
I'll add my details accordingly and click on next.
So let's prove that you're a human or click on Press and hold.
On my mouse I'm.
I've clicked on my mouse and I'm just pressing on it just to verify that I'm indeed a human.
Once the verification is complete, it would have gone ahead and created the Microsoft account.
Now with this Microsoft account, we are signed in.
We can now create our Azure Free account.
Again I need to give my various details here.
We need to use our phone number to verify our identity.
I'll just say to text me I should be getting a text message.
So I'm getting the verification code on my mobile device.
I'll go ahead and just add the code that I've received.
Click on verify code.
So that's done.
I've added the relevant details on this page.
I'll click on the next button.
I'll just verify my address and say use this address.
Now in order to complete our profile we will need to do an identity verification by card.
I have added my required details.
Click on the sign up button.
In order to protect our account.
B to enable something known as multi-factor authentication, I'll click on next.
This means that in addition to providing a username and password, we will need to use an additional
mechanism in our login onto the Azure portal.
But here it's telling us that we're ready to start using Azure or click on go onto the Azure portal
itself.
And now we're logged onto Azure.
I've also noticed that in terms of my credit card, I was I got a charge of 1 USD.
And I believe this is just an identification charge.
This might either be charged a credit card or it will be reversed.
Because you know, from the Microsoft documentation, it clearly states that there will be no charge
just used, you know, from an identification perspective.
So in this chapter, I want to go through the process of, you know, how do you create an Azure free
account.
All right.
Let's go ahead and mark it in onto this chapter.


=== Describe Azure architecture and services - Other services ===


--- Tour around the Azure portal ---

In this chapter, let's have an initial tour of the Azure portal.
We are going to be working with the Azure based services from the portal itself.
So we are using a web browser.
In the web browser we go on to https portal azure.com.
This is the link if you want to log on to the Azure portal itself.
Here we are logged in with our Microsoft account.
This Microsoft account was created based on an existing Gmail account that I had.
When you log in, we are taken on to this kind of quick start center.
We'll be working with.
If I go on to the left hand side onto the portal menu, we'll be working with creating resources on
the Azure platform.
We'll be creating resources based on services that Azure has to offer.
So for example we'll be working with the SQL Database Service.
We'll be working with Azure Cosmos DB.
will be working extensively with virtual machines, so on and so forth.
When it comes on to your account, so on the right hand side, you can see that you are signed in with
your Microsoft account.
If there are any notifications.
So for example when you log in the next time you will probably get a notification on how much credit
you currently have.
When it comes onto your Azure account, currently, I don't have any notifications in place.
Here we can search for resources, services, etc. if I search for something known as subscriptions,
let me just click on subscription.
This has taken me on to a new page.
In this page I can see that I have something known as Azure Subscription one.
When we start using services on Azure if there are any costs linked onto using a particular service.
Those costs are actually built against your subscription.
Currently, since I have not started using the Azure platform, there is no current cost that is available.
As you know, as part of this course, I will be going through important aspects when it comes onto
costing.
Normally, costing is very, very important not only from an exam perspective, but for you all as students.
When you all start using services on the Azure platform, it's very important to monitor the cost.
When we can go back onto the home screen within home, we can see that we have Azure services.
We've not used any recent services and we got some useful links in place.
So this was just an initial tour of this interface.
Obviously when we start using services on Azure, you'll get more and more familiar with using the Azure
portal itself.


=== Describe Azure architecture and services - Identity and Access ===


--- Virtual Machines in Azure ---

Hi and welcome on to the section wherein we are going to work with Compute Services on the Azure platform.
So far we have a brand new Azure account in place.
It's just waiting for us to start using the various services.
We're going to start with a bread and butter service that's available on Azure.
And that is the virtual machine service.
I want to give a quick introduction first in this particular chapter.
And then we'll go through various labs on how we can use this service.
So what exactly is the virtual machine service?
This service allows you to host virtual machines without the need of buying and maintaining underlying
physical hardware.
Here you only pay based on the usage of the service itself.
Now, for those students who are not familiar with virtual machines, virtual machine is only a concept
that is been available.
You know, before the advent of the cloud, we could build virtual machines.
Just going back in the past again, just for those students to explain just a cool concept when it comes
onto virtual machines.
So let's say a company had to deploy an application.
They want to make an application available to users.
First of all, the company would need to buy hardware.
They would need to buy servers, they would need to buy storage.
And then they could host their applications.
In the past, long ago, in the past, you had this concept of companies buying physical servers on
these physical servers.
They would install the underlying OS.
This could be windows servers, this could be Ubuntu Linux a Linux distribution.
And then they could host their applications.
Then came the advent of virtualization on these physical servers.
You could install virtualization softwares.
And these virtualization softwares gave you now the ability to build individual virtual machines.
The entire purpose of having virtual machines.
I'm not talking about the cloud.
I'm talking about a company in the past, how they would host their applications.
So I said, first and foremost, they would buy physical servers.
They would buy physical storage.
They would need to host all of this in a data center, because they would need to have networking in
place.
Obviously electricity is required or cooling is required for servers, etc..
So obviously you need to have buildings in place to host these servers.
These buildings would need to have cooling in place for the servers, for the storage, etc..
And I said with the help of this virtualization software, you could start building virtual machines.
The entire idea of virtual machines was to make, you know, maximum use of the underlying hardware
of the servers.
So if you had a server that, let's say 16 CPUs and 64 gigs of Ram.
You could build one virtual machine that could take up, let's say, four CPUs of the underlying physical
server.
Another one that could take, let's say two CPUs, so on and so forth, and also take a portion of the
Ram as well.
So you have now many machines that can work in tandem, hosted on the same physical server.
These virtual machines can take up the physical attributes of the physical server itself.
And then you could host applications on the virtual machine.
So you're making maximum use of the underlying physical server.
But again the company needs to buy physical servers.
They need to buy physical storage.
They need to deploy the virtualization software, maintain it and then create the virtual machines.
But in Azure you don't need to buy or maintain the physical infrastructure.
Everything is managed by Azure themselves.
You can just start using the service to deploy virtual machines.
So let's go on to the next chapter.
Let's see how we can start building virtual machines on Azure.


=== Describe Azure management and governance ===


--- Lab - Deploying a Windows-based virtual machine - Initial configuration ---

Right.
So let's start with using our very first service on Azure.
And that's going to be the virtual machine service.
We're going to use the virtual machine service to build a machine based on Windows Server 2025.
So in the past if you had to build a machine based on Windows Server.
So I said, let's say a company wants to host an application, and that application needs to be hosted
on a server machine.
They would first need to have the machine in place.
Download the software of Windows Server 2025, install it, configure the server and have it ready for
the application.
What we're going to do is we are going to deploy a server.
Windows server 2025 on Azure using the Virtual Machine service.
So in Azure let's go ahead and use our very first service.
On the left hand side in the portal menu.
If I go onto all resources, this will give us a view of the resources that we currently have in our
Azure account.
We can build resources based on services that Azure has to offer.
And we're going to understand all of these terms as we go through using services from all resources.
I can click on create to create a resource based on a service.
You know, there are several ways in which we can start making use of services.
One way is we can go on to the All Resources screen, click on Create and Create a resource.
Or since we are going to create a resource based on the virtual machine service.
I can go on to virtual machines here.
This will take me on to another screen where I can see what virtual machines I have.
I don't have any machines in place.
And then here under create, I can say yes, I do want to create an Azure VM.
So let's go to this option.
Let me say that I want to build an Azure Virtual Machine.
Once I do this I'm now going to get a wizard.
This wizard will help me to configure the various aspects about my machine.
There are various categories.
We have the basics, the disk, networking, so on and so forth.
On the basics screen, if I scroll down, I have my subscription.
So every resource that you deploy or every service that you use has to be billed against a subscription.
I said if there is any cost that is associated with using a particular service, if you have that $200
worth of free credit, that cost will be deducted from that $200 worth of free credit.
So you don't have any issue if you have the credit in place.
Next is something known as a resource group.
A resource group is used to logically group your resources.
You know, for us, we are just building something known as a virtual machine for organizations.
They'll be using a whole list of services that Azure has to offer.
They'll be building multiple resources.
You can actually group resources together under something known as a resource group.
Now currently for us, I you know, we don't have any resource groups in place.
I can click on Create New to create a group.
Let me give a very simple group name.
I'll click on okay.
So again what are we doing here.
We are using a browser wherein we have logged in onto the Azure portal from our account.
We want to now use a virtual machine service to create a VM on the Azure Cloud Computing platform.
We are going through a particular wizard.
We are currently on the basic screen.
Next is asking us to give a name for the VM.
I'll give a simple name.
Now it's asking us to choose a region for the VM.
I'm going to choose a region of North Europe.
Now you can choose any region that will allow you to create the resource.
Source.
If it's not allowing you to create a resource in the North Europe location, you can go ahead and choose
East US.
You can choose West US.
Choose a location that's closest to you, or choose a location that will allow you to build a virtual
machine.
Now, in terms of availability options, for now, I will choose no infrastructure redundancy required.
Please note that as part of the AZ nine exam, yes, we are going to go through what are these different
availability options.
But please note that for services, for example for the virtual machine service, there are so many
aspects that you can configure as part of building the VM itself.
It is impossible to go through each and every option.
We are only going to go on to studying the options that are important from an exam perspective.
Active.
Currently, I want to keep things simple wherein I want to build a virtual machine based on Windows
Server 2025.
Now we'll scroll down.
We have something known as an image.
I want to build a machine that's based on Windows Server 2025.
Now I can see here there's something known as Windows Server 2025 Data Center, Azure Edition x64 Gen2.
Now, this is not exactly what I want.
You know, there are different images that are available in something known as the Azure Marketplace.
What I'll do is let me just click on see all images.
This is going to take me onto the marketplace where I can see Windows Server has an image.
I'm going to click on select.
I want to search for.
I'll scroll down.
I think it's down in the list.
You know, what I want is I just want Windows Server 2005 Data Center x64 Gen two.
This is what I want.
I will click on this.
I have now gone back onto the virtual machine screen, and you will see that using this particular edition
does come under the free services eligibility.
So that's good.
I'll scroll down even further.
Now there's something known as the size of the machine.
Now in the size of the machine by default it is using something known as standard underscore b-1s where
we get one virtual CPU, one gig of memory, and this also comes under the free services eligibility.
For now, let me keep this hazardous.
is.
I'll scroll down.
We need to enter a username and a password.
This username and password can be used to log into the VM.
So once you have the VM in place, you can actually log on to the VM.
And this is very important.
Normally you would want to log onto the machine and then start installing your applications your services
etc..
I'll give a username.
We have to mention our own password.
So you can see that when you do mention a password it needs to adhere to these constraints.
The constraints are mentioned here.
Hence I will provide my own password that abides by these constraints.
And that's it.
I've filled up the screen when it comes onto the basics tab.
Let's go step by step.
Let's mark an end on this chapter.
I'll move on to the next, and let's complete the process of creating a virtual machine.


=== Putting everything together ===


--- Lab - Deploying a Windows-based virtual machine - Deployment ---

Right.
We are in the process of building a virtual machine since we are working with our very first service.
I want to go step by step.
You know it's your first time building a resource based on a service in Azure.
Hence, I want to go slow and steady.
Then later on, once we do get used to using services, I'll go a bit faster in terms of building resources
based on services itself.
So again, what are we trying to do?
What are we trying to achieve?
I want to have a machine on the cloud on Azure, based on Windows Server 2025.
In the basic screen, some of the key aspects that we had to configure are.
Well, one thing was the subscription that I told you that resources that you build on Azure have to
be linked against a subscription.
This is used for billing purposes.
Next, the resource needs to be part of something known as a resource group.
This is a logical grouping of resources.
See, for us we are only building one machine.
Let's say an organization wants to build multiple machines, multiple resources, a lot of different
departments.
What you can do is you can have a resource group for each and every department, and then you can build
resources as part of the individual resource groups.
So it's just a way to logically group your resources.
And why would you want to do this?
Because later on when you start having multiple resources in place for a large organization, you can
filter based on resource groups.
You can filter on even the cost aspect of the resource group itself.
So it's beneficial to start grouping your resources.
Then we give a name for our VM app VM.
We have chosen something known as an image in the Azure Marketplace.
So we chose an image of Windows Server 2025 datacenter x64 864 Gen two.
Now this image is kind of a packet solution.
You know, by using this template you will get a pre-built machine in place that already has Windows
Server 2025 installed.
See if you had to build a machine from scratch.
So let's say on my laptop I want to install.
I want to have Windows Server 2025in place.
So first of all, I would need to download the entire software.
You know, use the trial edition if possible, install and configure it.
And this takes time, right?
It would take a couple of hours just to have Windows Server 2025in place on my laptop.
Normally will not install it on your laptop.
You'll have kind of a physical or a server machine in place, and then install.
Windows server 2025 is giving an example.
You know, it takes time to get the server in place, but you will see by using this inbuilt image in
the Azure Marketplace.
Within a matter of minutes, you will have a full blown VM in place, which will only have Windows Server
2025 installed.
We then mention a username and password.
This will be used to log onto the machine.
There is also the licensing aspect.
I just go through this a little bit in a moments time.
Next we had mentioned a region for the resource.
I had mentioned a region of North Europe.
I said for you, you can go ahead and mention any region that you want.
So whichever region you're closest to, we're going to go ahead and choose that region.
So if it's east us, west US, so on and so forth, you can go ahead and choose the region of your choice.
I tried to keep my region standard in my courses.
Now why do we need to mention, you know, students ask me, why do I need to mention a region for hosting
my machine?
This is not the internet.
Aren't we using Azure has a cloud computing platform.
Does it really matter what region I choose?
You know, what you have to remember in the end is when it comes onto a cloud computing platform, you
know, in the end, if you're looking at the virtual machine, the virtual machine needs to be hosted
on some sort of physical server.
That physical server needs to be hosted in some sort of data center.
So in the end, your virtual machine will be hosted on a physical server.
It's only that the physical server is managed by Azure.
It's managed by the service.
The data center is managed by Microsoft.
You have to mention a region because Azure needs to kind of put that VM on a physical server in a particular
data center in a particular region.
So you have to choose a region.
So for most services you will need to choose a region for the service itself, for building that resource.
Okay, let's go back.
Um, next is the this section.
But before that, let's go back on to building the VM.
Now, uh, just another quick note.
In terms of the size, there are many sizes when it comes onto VM.
So if I click on see all sizes there are these different VM sizes.
Now for each VM size you get a particular amount of virtual CPU and you get Ram, both very key aspects
for building a machine.
So even on your laptop machine, you'll have a number of CPUs in place.
You'll have some amount of Ram.
So normally you might be having eight gigs or 16 gigs of Ram on your machine.
Now, in terms of what's coming as part of the free services eligibility, okay, that's B1.
So not Every instance type.
In fact, it's only one instance type that's given here that's coming under the free services.
Eligibility the remaining service.
Sorry, the remaining instance types don't come under the free service eligibility.
Now the problem is when it comes on to a Windows Server machine.
This one gig of memory Ram and one gig of virtual CPU is not going to be enough for the server itself.
It's going to run into issues.
I said, let's just build a machine.
I will probably need to resize the machine onto another kind of instance size, a VM size that will
not come under the free service eligibility.
But still, in order to have a fully functional Windows Server in place, I would probably need to resize
the machine.
Gene, but let's do that as an additional step.
See, when it comes on to the perspective of the Microsoft exams, the Azure based exams, you have
to understand that the objectives of the exam don't take into consideration whether you're using an
Azure free account.
No.
For them you have to know the Azure services.
That's it.
So we would you know, it's not only in this course but in, you know, when you're learning for the
other Azure exams as well, we will need to try services that do indeed have a cost linked to it.
Because in the end, when you're studying for the exam, the exam, the objectives expects you that
you should understand the services irrespective of what type of account you're using.
Okay, let me cancel this.
Okay.
So we're back on the screen.
On the basic screen I'll click on next for the disk.
So similar to the disk that you have on your local machine on your laptop there will be a disc that
will be assigned onto a machine.
By default, we get an OS level disk that's of size 127 gigs.
I'll accept this and click on next for networking.
We do have a separate section on networking.
What this particular screen is going to do is it's going to build something known as a virtual network.
Within the virtual network, it's going to build something known as a subnet.
This is required for hosting your machine.
We should also be getting a public IP address.
So currently it's not giving us a public IP address.
Let me go back onto this.
Go on networking.
So it's not coming up.
What I'll do is let me click on Create New and say that I do want to create a new public IP address.
I'll leave the aspects as they are.
I'll click on okay for you.
The Wizard might already have a new public IP address in place.
So what does this all mean?
When it comes onto the desk.
Is it similar to having this on your laptop?
You have now a disk that's going to have the OS level files on it.
This disk is going to be 127 gigs in size, and will be attached onto the machine from the networking
aspect.
A virtual machine needs to be located in something known as a virtual network.
A virtual network is a logically isolated network on the cloud, similar to companies having physical
networks in their on premises data centers.
Here you will need to have a virtual network in place, so the wizard will create the network for you.
Again, we'll be going through virtual networks a little bit later on.
The subnets are just used to break down the network into further logical segments.
This wizard is also going to create that public IP address is also going to create something known as
a network security group.
So even though we only want to build a virtual machine, this particular wizard also needs to build
other resources that are required for the virtual machine.
So it needs to build something known as a virtual network.
It will need to have a subnet within the virtual network.
It will need to create a new public IP address.
It will create also something known as a new network security group.
I'm leaving all the aspects as they are.
I'll click on next.
Now in all of these subsequent screens, I won't change anything.
We have a lot of aspects, a lot that we can configure when it comes to services on Azure.
Agile.
I am leaving all these screens as they are.
I just want to kind of focus on the basics, the disk and the networking.
In terms of the other screens.
I'll just go on to next, I want to proceed on to the last tab.
That's review and Create.
And in review and create, you can always go through the various things that you've actually configured
for building the VM.
So in the final screen it is running a validation.
The validation passed in the review.
And create.
What we'll see here is okay.
What is the price based on VM size that we've chosen for this virtual machine.
Seeing that the chart is around 0.0153 USD per hour.
Now the good thing is, when it comes on to using most of the services on the Azure platform, on a
cloud computing platform, you only pay based on how much you use.
Now for us, when it comes onto this machine.
I probably be running it for just around maybe 10 to 15 minutes.
Hence, I will only be billed for that 10 to 15 minutes, so I will not be billed right now on hourly
basis.
No, it's based on the amount of time the machine is going to run.
So it's basically this charge divided by 60 then into how many minutes I used.
So the charge is quite less when it comes on to using the VM based on this current VM size.
Is it for you if you have that $200 worth of free credit, no problem.
It will just be deducted from that $200 worth of free credit itself.
But again here we have we're using a machine of the free services eligibility.
So even this also will not be deducted from there.
Once all of this is done it's quite a lot.
Let me go ahead and click on create.
So now when I click on create we are sending a request onto Azure.
We're actually sending a request or something known as Azure Resource Manager.
The Azure Resource Manager will look at what we're asking you to deploy.
It is now submitting a deployment.
We have a notification that a deployment is in progress.
It will first create the resource group.
Then within the resource group it will start deploying our resources.
And remember that in addition to deploying the virtual machine, it has to deploy the other resources
as well so you can see them already in place.
It will deploy something known as a public IP address, a network security group, a virtual network,
so on and so forth.
It will just take probably less than a minute or less than two minutes to have everything in place.
Let's go ahead and mark an end on this chapter.
Let's come back once the deployment is complete.


=== Practice Section ===


--- Lab - Connecting to the virtual machine ---

Now I've come back after just around a minute or so.
I can see that my deployment is complete.
So you would have got a notification that the deployment has succeeded when it comes onto your virtual
machine.
If you go on to the deployment details, you will see that, okay, it has created a resource of APM
with the name of APM based on a type of virtual machine.
So there are different types based on the services that Azure has to offer.
It has also created something known as a network interface.
It has created a public IP address, a network security group and a virtual network in the portal menu.
Now, if I go onto all resources, you will see all of your resources in place.
These resources are part of your resource group.
So we have a virtual machine.
We have a public IP address so on and so forth.
I can click on app VM which is our virtual machine resource we want.
We can go and just hide this.
This will now take me on to the page wherein I can see details about my virtual machine.
So in the end what do we have here?
So we have now a VM, a full blown VM that is being hosted on some sort of physical server in a data
center in our region of choice.
Azure is giving us this web interface.
The portal is giving us this kind of web interface, which is allowing us to actually interact with
our VM, is giving us information about the various aspects about the VM.
So we can see that this VM is based on Windows Server 2025 data center.
Currently we have one virtual CPU and one gig of memory in place for this VM.
This VM is part of a subnet within a virtual network.
Again, the virtual network is a separate resource altogether.
If I expand this and click on the virtual network resource.
So this is the symbol for the virtual network if I hide this.
So now we are taken on to the overview.
The properties of the virtual network which is another resource altogether.
This is based on the virtual network service.
So all of these are now individual resources.
These resources are part of a resource group.
And all of them are linked onto our Azure subscription.
Again if I go on VM right, we have the overview here.
On the left hand side we have a whole list of options that changes.
You know, there are new features being added on to the virtual machine server.
So you can see there's a whole list of things that you can actually do with the VM itself.
It's actually providing you a way in which you can actually manage the machine.
So instead of you actually going onto the machine itself and trying to manage it, which you can do,
obviously there are some aspects that are in place for you to better manage the machine itself.
If I just go on to the portal menu again, let me go on to resource groups.
So we have kind of two resource groups in place.
So there's one that has been automatically by Azure.
So they create something known as a network watcher resource.
Fine.
It's free of cost.
And then I can see my app group resource group.
So I said this is a logical grouping of your resources.
If you want you can go and create another resource group and deployed resources as part of that resource
group.
If I click on the resource group itself, you will see the underlying resources in place.
Okay, let's go ahead and connect on to our virtual machine.
I'll click on the app VM resource.
I want to connect.
So I'll click on the connect option here.
Click on connect.
We are taken on to another page.
So we're taken on to the connect page.
You can see on the left hand side it's telling us that we can download something known as native RDP
on our local machine, and use this to connect onto the windows server.
So here's a quick note RDP the Remote Desktop file.
This is a configuration file that can be used to connect or to windows based machines.
This file contains, you know, details such as the IP address and login credentials.
So again, what are we trying to do.
We are trying to connect I'm trying to connect from my laptop device via the internet on to the virtual
machine.
Remember that the VM also has additional resources in place like the network interface, the OS level
disk, the network security group, and the public IP address.
So let's try and do that.
Let me go back here.
I'll say let's download the file.
So this is a remote desktop connection file.
So it's in downloads I'll click on save.
I'll click on the remote desktop file.
So let's open up a dialog box I'll then click on connect.
And then it should prompt me to enter the password.
So remember we had mentioned a username and a password during the configuration of building the machine.
I'll put in the password that I had mentioned.
Click on the okay button.
It's giving us a screen in which I'll say yes.
Let's go ahead and connect onto this computer.
It's now configuring a remote session onto the machine.
And what's happening is you are now getting a remote session onto the virtual machine.
And this virtual machine is based on Windows Server 2025.
Now it's saying here, because of a protocol error, the remote session is going to be disconnected.
The problem here is the size of the machine.
The size is just not enough.
One virtual CPU and one gig of memory is just not sufficient enough for this machine.
So what I'll do is I'll click on okay and let's move on to the next chapter, wherein we'll resize our
machine so that we can actually have the ability to connect to the machine itself.

--- Lab - Resizing the virtual machine ---

Now, in the prior chapter, we kind of hit a roadblock in terms of being able to log into our machine.
So we built a machine successfully on the cloud, but we are not able to connect to the machine, and
that's simply because of the size of the machine.
Well, the brilliant thing about cloud platforms like Azure is at any point in time, you, you know,
you have that flexibility wherein we can modify the configuration of the machine.
So for app VM itself, there should be the ability, if I go on to let me just go on to the overview
itself.
And from here right we can see the current size of the machine.
I want to be able to change the size.
I'll scroll on to the left under settings.
Let me go on to Availability and Scale and click on size.
This should allow me to modify the size of the machine.
Now in terms of the size of the machine, I will choose the size of B to S.
Now B to S is going to give me four virtual CPUs and four gigs of Ram.
If I scroll on to the right just to see kind of an approximate cost per month here it's saying that
the approximate.
So this time it's giving me a costing per month.
So it's saying it's around 40 USD, so 39 USD.
Now note that you are not going to be charged this 39 USD right now itself.
No this is the cost per month.
Remember you will only be charged based on the number of minutes that your machine will be running.
So you divide this cost accordingly just to get kind of an appropriate cost of running this machine
for a few minutes.
And it's not that much.
I said from the perspective of the exam, we have to understand how to use Azure based services.
Hence what I'll do is I will click on resize and it's now performing the operation of resizing this
machine onto this new size.
The new machine will have two virtual CPUs and four gigs of memory.
Now, if a company had to do this in their own data center.
They could do this because they would be having, you know, they would have a physical server in place,
they would have storage, they would have virtualization softwares in place and manage the VMs accordingly.
But let's say that they had to resize a machine to a particular level, and that hardware was not available
on the physical machine.
They would need to probably buy new hardware, you know, buy maybe an additional server or buy additional
CPUs put onto the machine.
All of this takes time.
But on Azure, within a moment's time, we can go ahead and choose a size and resize accordingly.
Now, if I go on to the overview for the machine, right.
Currently it's still showing as standard B-1s.
We can always refresh this entire page.
Sometimes it just takes.
Okay, now I can see it's standard b-2s.
This should also get refreshed.
I'll just take some time.
Let me try to connect again.
So I'll click on the remote desktop file.
Let me connect using.
The username and password.
Right now I can see right now I can see some progress.
We are able to actually log in as the app admin, and we should be getting the screen of Windows Server
2025, the default kind of home login we are seeing.
It's getting set up only because of the size of the machine.
So now on Azure we have a full blown machine based on Windows Server 2025.
As I said in a moments time, you should be able to see the aspects about the server itself.
Where it is in me, right is giving me a dialog box on sending diagnostic data.
I'll just say the required only click on accept.
It is still taking time, because even that configuration of two virtual CPUs and four gigs of Ram is
still a bit less when it comes onto the Windows Server machine.
But now we can see something known as the Server Manager dashboard in place.
And now we are logged into our Windows Server machine.

--- Troubleshooting connectivity ---

Now in the prior chapter, we had connected on to our Windows Server machine.
So now we have a fully managed virtual machine on the cloud.
In case if you are not able to connect onto the machine, you can actually go to these documentation
pages on troubleshooting RDP connections.
So we have one for the default troubleshooting of remote desktop connections is also a detailed troubleshooting.
You know some of the issues in which you cannot connect.
First of all, make sure that you're using the right username and password to log on to the machine.
Next is if you are connecting from, let's say, a company laptop.
Sometimes companies might restrict connections onto remote devices, so maybe the company has software's
in place on the laptop which is limiting the connections onto external services.
So that's why maybe you cannot connect onto the virtual machine.
You can, I said you can always go through these documentation pages just to try and understand what
are the different issues when it comes to connecting auto machines.
I'll make sure to have these links as resources attached onto this chapter.

--- Connecting to the machine from macOS ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can use Remote Desktop to connect onto the windows
based machine that we have in Azure from a mac OS device.
Here I am in Mac Studio.
I want to connect onto the machine that we have running within Azure or Windows based server.
Now for this, I'm going to go on to the App Store first on my machine and install the windows app.
This will be required to remote desktop onto the Windows Server based machine.
Now once I have the windows app installed, I'll click on the open button.
Currently, we don't have any devices in place.
I'll go onto my app VM Virtual Machine and on my Mac OS device.
Let me click on connect.
I'll download the file.
I'll click on the RDP file.
Now it's asking me to give the password for the Windows Server based machine.
So it's trying to configure a remote connection onto the machine itself.
And now I'm connected onto the Windows Server machine.
So very simple to go ahead and connect onto the Windows Server machine from a mac OS device.
And then as always, you can go ahead and perform operations on the Windows Server machine itself.

--- Lab - Deploying a web server on the Windows machine ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now we have deployed a VM on the cloud.
Has an example of hosting a workload on a machine.
Because once you have a server in place, you might now want to install an application host a software.
You know, you have your own requirements for having a workload running on the machine.
Now, as an example, I want to install a web server on our machine.
When it comes on Windows Server, I can install a role known as Internet information services.
So this is a particular role that you can install on a Windows Server based machine.
When you install this role, your machine can behave as a web server.
And then we can issue HTTP request calls against the server itself.
I just want to give an example on how you can install a workload on a server.
Now currently I have logged on to the server itself.
I am in the Server Manager dashboard now.
In case.
Please note I'm doing this all on the server itself, so if you can't see the Server Manager dashboard,
go on to the windows menu and choose Server Manager.
Now within the Server Manager dashboard I'm going to click on Add Roles and Features.
This will give me a wizard in which we can install these different roles that are available on a Windows
Server machine.
I'll click on next.
Say that I want to have a role based or a feature based installation.
Click on next again.
I'm choosing my machine.
That's fine.
I'll click on next.
You're.
Now I can decide on the role that I want to configure for this machine.
I'm going to choose the role of web server internet information services.
Click on Add Features.
Click on next.
Leave everything as it is.
Click on next.
You know just go on to the final screen and I can click on install.
So what we're doing is we're installing now something on the machine.
So with Azure we have a fully fledged Windows Server machine in place.
We can now install whatever we want.
You could download a software from the internet install it accordingly.
You can host a database engine on the server itself.
It's up to you.
You can go ahead and install any type of workload that you want on the machine itself.
This will just take a minute or two.
I'll just wait for the installation to complete and then we'll come back.
Now, once the installation is complete, I can click on the close button.
So now I have kind of a web server running on this machine.
Now how can I test for the web server?
Well what we can do is we can send now an HTTP request onto the public IP address of the machine.
When you go on to RPM, the virtual machine gets something known as a public IP address.
This allows resources from the internet.
So from my laptop I should be able to communicate with my machine, with my virtual machine, using
the public IP address, even when we remote desktop or the file when we remote desktop onto the machine.
If I click on connect, we are actually connecting on to the public IP address of the machine itself.
So this is a publicly routable IP address that Azure has offered or given for the VM itself.
So using this public IP address we can communicate with this machine from the internet.
I said now that we have a web server in place Is running on the machine.
We can send a request on the HTTP protocol to the machine itself.
I'll click on continue on to the site.
What's going to happen is we will not be able you know, we are sending an HTTP request onto the machine,
but the machine is actually rejecting the request.
It's not accepting our request.
The reason for this is there is something known as a network security group that is attached to the
machine.
This network security group has rules that is used to limit the inbound and outbound connections to
the machine.
It's kind of a lightweight firewall, a security mechanism that is limiting the connections on a cloud
platform.
Security is very important.
Pardon.
A lot of these services in Azure have a lot of security features in place that allow you to secure your
resources.
If I go on to the networking settings of the machine, I should be able to see something known as my
network interface.
But if I scroll down, I can see something known as inbound port rules and outbound port rules.
Now, I do have a separate chapter when it comes onto network security groups.
But for now, just to ensure that we can send an HTTP request onto our server, here I will choose to
create something known as an inbound port rule.
In these security rules, we now have a wizard in which it's telling us how do we want to configure
our security rule in terms of the service?
I will choose the HTTP service because I'm trying to send an HTTP request from my machine for my laptop
onto the VM itself.
I'll accept all the other default settings and click on add.
So all I'm doing is I'm adding a security rule onto the network security group saying please allow connections
basically onto the machine.
You know, for the HTTP protocol.
If I just refresh this page now, I can see the home page of Internet Information Services.
So now the request from my laptop for my browser is reaching the public IP address of the VM.
And now I can confirm that my VM is behaving as a web server, that we now have a workload running on
the server itself.
So the entire purpose of this chapter was just to showcase that we can now install, we can host workloads
on these server machines that we have deployed as part of our Azure account.

--- Virtual Machine sizes ---

Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter, I want to give this quick note on this page that's available from Microsoft on the
different series that are available for your virtual machines.
So when we built our VM, we chose a particular VM size based on the VM size.
We got an amount of virtual CPUs and an amount of Ram.
Now there are different types of VM sizes that's also available.
So it's not only based on the amount of virtual CPUs or based on the amount of Ram.
It's also based on the amount of workload, you know, sorry on the type of workload that you want to
host on VM itself.
So let's say that you want to host a database server on a production level on the virtual machine.
So you would need a VM that not only has an adequate amount of virtual CPUs and Ram, the underlying
machine should also be able to have, you know, work with high input output operations.
That's based on the database.
If you are, for example, an AI based application, then you would need the appropriate hardware in
place because in the end, the VM is hosted on a physical server, and that physical server has its
own capabilities that it provides the VM.
So is it based on the type of workload that you want to install on the VM itself?
Because see, in the end, yes, we have now a virtual machine in place, but we need to make use of
it.
So companies would install softwares host applications.
So if you had to host an AI based application, you probably need powerful graphics cards in place on
the machine itself, or available to the machine to make use of the underlying power for the AI application
itself.
So on this page, you will see the different types of machine sizes that are available.
The Machine Virtual Machine series and each series has its own capabilities, so you can actually go
with this documentation page when it comes on to the different virtual machine series itself.

--- Costing for Azure services ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the costing aspect based on the resources that we
currently have as part of our Azure account.
Now, this costing is very important for an organization that wants to make use of various services
on a cloud platform.
Obviously, they want to have a check when it comes onto the costing aspect.
So very important to understand the costing of various services.
See, at this point in time you will think that okay, we only have the cost for the VM itself, right?
The running cost for the VM.
So we saw that when we build the VM there was a cost per r.
When we changed the VM size there was a cost per month.
Please note that these are only costs when it comes onto the VM itself.
This is the CPU cost.
But then we do have other resources that have been deployed as part of the wizard that's required by
the virtual machine.
You have to consider the cost for these individual resources as well.
When you want to look at the costing aspect, you can always go on to the Microsoft documentation page
to get a further understanding on the cost for services.
Now, for example, if you look at the cost for a virtual network, this is actually free of cost.
There is no cost for having a virtual network in place.
The wizard deploys something known as a network interface.
Again, the network interface is free of cost, so there's no cost linked to having a network interface
in place.
Now, when it comes on the OS level disk that is assigned onto your VM, there is a price per hour individually
for the disk itself.
When it comes onto the NSG, the Network Security group, this is free of cost.
When it comes on the public IP address, there is again a minimal cost per hour.
So from a costing aspect for us, it's not that much because I said, first of all, you are billed
only based on how much you use.
And for us, you know, I will be teaching on how to make sure that you remove resources once you're
done with them.
But from an organization perspective, right, you're working for a company and they are looking at
using Azure based services for them.
Costing will be very, very important because they'll be running these resources over time.
They'll be having a lot of resources in place.
It's not just one VM.
There could be having a thousand VMs in place.
And with these 1000 VMs, they can be having a lot of different place, a lot of public IP addresses,
so on and so forth.
We have to make sure that we understand that there is a costing linked onto each and every resource.
And again, you can just go all the Microsoft documentation.
So normally what I do is I will type in Google saying that okay, what's the pricing for a virtual network
in Azure.
It will take me on to the documentation page.
And then from there I'll come to okay.
It's free of cost.
There are pricing pages available for the various services that Azure has to offer.

--- Understanding Azure regions ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the chapter, I briefly want to go through the global infrastructure that you can actually basically
see when it comes onto Azure.
So when we deploy our resources we decide on the region for our resource.
Azure has their presence across different geographic areas in the world.
They have various data centers in which you can host your resources.
You can actually go on to the global infrastructure page.
And in the view mode, it's a little bit slow on my machine.
So I can view the entire map this onto the map mode.
And then here we can see the different locations, you know, wherein Azure has their data centers.
And we can host resources.
If we look at the legend.
So these are the regions that are available right now.
Obviously Azure is coming up with newer and newer regions.
There's something known as the network point of presence locations.
We have the sustainability projects.
These are these markers.
And there's something known as bad links.
We can also take a tour a virtual tour of the Microsoft Data Center.
This is good if you just want to get an idea on what does a data center look like?
See, in the end you have a building that has racks and racks of servers.
There's racks and racks of storage.
And all of this is maintained by Microsoft.
Right.
They are maintaining their data centers in order to provide these services.
So if you want, we can enter the lobby.
So you can have a view of the lobby.
How does it look like?
If you want you can go on to the operations room.
So let's go on to the operations room.
So the operations room is looking at the availability and resiliency of the data centers.
You have trained technicians who are looking at the power, the cooling, the networking and the security.
You can explore the operations room.
And you can see the different aspects about the room itself.
Is giving kind of a virtual tour of the entire data center.
So there's a lot that goes into actually having, you know, these data centers in place.
For us, it's quite simple.
We are using these services via the Azure portal.
Why the internet?
But in the end, there's a lot that goes into having the required physical infrastructure in place.
If you want, you can go through this page to have kind of a virtual tour of the data centers.

--- Shutting down the virtual machine ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the simple process of shutting down the virtual machine.
If you don't need the machine to be running right when you are running VM, you have to understand that
there is a cost associated with the running of the VM itself.
Let's say you want to save on costs when it comes onto the CPU of the machine itself.
You can go ahead and shut down the machine at any point in time.
Now if I go onto the VM, I have the ability from the Windows Server menu to perform a shutdown of the
machine here itself.
Now, when you do perform a shutdown of the machine at the OS level, yes, it will shut down the machine
itself, but then there is still a slight charge that is incurred for the machine.
If you want to perform a complete shutdown of the machine and not incur any sort of cost for the machine
itself.
You will need to go on to the Azure portal and go onto the machine itself in the overview.
You can perform the act of stopping the machine.
Now when you stop the machine from here, you are deallocating the machine.
And what do I mean by deallocating the machine?
So we have to remember that the virtual machine is hosted on some sort of physical server in an Azure
data center.
When we perform the operation of stop deallocate from the Azure portal, what this will do is it will
deallocate the VM from this underlying physical server.
When you start the machine again, the VM, the VM would be launched on either the same physical server
or another physical server, right?
This is all dependent upon Azure, but you just have to understand that if you want to make sure that
you are not charged, you know the running cost for the machine itself, you will need to perform the
act of stop deallocating the machine from the Azure portal itself.
Now, when you do perform the act of deallocating the machine, this is a point wherein the data on
the temporary drive is lost.
And what I mean by this.
So if I go on to my windows based machine and just open up the Windows Explorer.
So for the machine, if I go into this PC.
So I'm logged in onto the Azure VM, I have the OS level disk that's of size 127 gigs.
At the same time, I have also been assigned temporary storage in the form of a D drive.
Now we can store files within this temporary storage, but if we perform the act of stop deallocate
from the Azure portal for the machine itself.
If you have any data residing on this temporary storage drive, it will be lost.
That's why the term of temporary storage.
Yes, we can store data on the drive, but if I go ahead and let's say I save a set of files on the
drive, then from Azure portal I go ahead and stop the machine.
So I'm saying that please go ahead and stop app VM.
This will actually deallocate the VM from the underlying physical server.
And then if there are any files stored in that drive they also get lost.
So when you start the machine again you will not have the files in place on the D drive.
Nor you can do is if you do want to persist files on the machine, you can create something known as
additional data disk and assign it onto the machine.
And then you can save files on the additional data disk drives.
If you want to understand more when it comes onto the operational aspect for VMs, for virtual networks,
etc., I suggest that you go for a course that is targeted towards the exam of AZ 104.
So AZ 104 focuses on the Azure Administrator exam.
There you will learn more about how do you manage these various aspects about Azure VMs.
But in this chapter, I want to let you all know that when we do stop the machine.
So what I'll do is let me close the remote desktop session and perform the act of stopping the machine.
So what it's doing right now is we are telling Azure, please go ahead and deallocate the machine from
the underlying physical host.
And I said at this time, what it will do is if there were any files located on the D drive that will
also be lost, right?
So in this chapter briefly, we want to go through the act of shutting down a machine.
In a moment's time, the status will change from running to the stop deallocated state.

--- About Public IP addresses for virtual machines ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through the concept just in brief when it comes on to public IP addresses.
I already mentioned the fact that public IP addresses are assigned onto our Azure VMs and why they use.
And these public IP addresses basically allow internet based resources to communicate with Azure based
resources.
So we are able to connect onto our Azure VM.
We are able to send HTTP requests onto a machine that has a web server installed.
Just because we have a public IP address assigned onto the machine.
The public IP address is actually attached onto the network interface, and the network interface in
turn is attached onto the Azure VM.
There are two types of assignment.
When it comes onto public IP addresses we have the dynamic assignment.
Here.
The IP address is released when you stop or delete the resource.
And we have the static assignment here.
The IP address is released when the resource is updated only.
Now if I go into Azure in the last chapter, what I've done is I performed a stop operation.
So now my machine is in the stop deallocated state.
If I go on to the network settings.
So my VM has a network interface in place.
This network interface contains something known as an IP configuration.
If I click on this, this takes me on to another screen is actually taking me onto the IP configuration
for my network interface resource.
If I scroll down and click on the IP config itself, if I scroll down, I can see that this particular
IP configuration is linking my public IP address onto my network interface.
So in the end, the public IP address is a separate resource, but it is linked onto the network interface
and the network interface is attached onto the Azure VM.
If I go on to all resources and go onto the IP address itself.
So this is a standard IP address that is assigned onto the machine itself.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to give kind of this brief information when it comes onto the public IP address.

--- Lab - Creating a Linux-based virtual machine ---

Now in this chapter I want to deploy another Azure VM.
This time I'm going to base the Azure VM on a Linux distribution.
I'm going to choose an image based on Ubuntu Server 24.04.
This will allow me to, I said launch a VM based on a Linux distribution.
I will deploy this VM on to the same subnet and the same virtual network that we have.
You can always go ahead and launch another virtual network, or make the VM part of another network
itself.
If you want to isolate virtual machines.
Then you can make sure that you deploy VMs as part of another network.
So currently what we can do is yes, we can deploy VMs as part of the same network.
But this also means that communication is possible now across machines within the same network itself.
But I said if you need to isolate your workloads, you need, let's say app APM to run in isolation
and web VM to run in isolation, you can go ahead and deploy them as part of different virtual networks.
Now, when we do use a wizard to create a new machine based on Ubuntu Server, the wizard will allocate
another OS level disk.
This will be for the new VM.
A new network security group and a new public IP address.
So let's go ahead and deploy the Linux machine.
So currently these are the resources we have in place.
Again I can go on to virtual machines.
And from here choose to create a new Azure VM.
I can place this as part of my existing resource group.
That's fine.
You can always go ahead and create another resource group.
Give a name for my machine in the same region.
Again, I won't have any Infrastructure redundancy in place.
I want to base my machine on Ubuntu Server 24.04.
Now in case if you can't see this here, you can go on to see all images in the marketplace and search
for Ubuntu Server.
But since I can see here, I'll choose Ubuntu Server 24.04.
I'll scroll down.
Now, in terms of the size for the Linux distribution standard, underscore b-1s is sufficient.
I'll scroll down in terms of the authentication type.
A more secure authentication type is a public key.
But to make this simple what I'll do is I'll choose a password.
We can specify a username and a password to connect onto our Linux machine.
I haven't mentioned a username and a password.
Go on to next for the disk.
Is now as part of the image of Ubuntu Server.
We are getting an OS level disk, but this time the OS level disk is 30 GB in size.
But you can always go ahead and create and attach data disk.
So if you need additional volumes, additional space on your machine for storing information, for storing
files, you can always go ahead and create and attach additional data disk.
Now going on to the networking side, since we are launching this VM in North Europe, in North Europe,
I already have my existing virtual network in place.
So this wizard has detected that yes, you do have an existing virtual network in place.
Do you want to launch the machine in the same virtual network and in the same subnet?
Yes, I do want to.
You can go ahead.
And I told you can create a new virtual network and launch this VM as part of the network.
But to keep things simple, for now, we will place everything as part of the same network.
The only thing is that this wizard will create a new public IP address and attach it onto this machine.
I'll leave the other settings as they are.
We can directly go on to the review and Create screen.
Now in the final screen, once the validation has passed, we can see again what is the charge per hour
for the compute machine.
I can scroll down.
Let me click on create.
This will now send a request onto Azure to.
Now go ahead and deploy a machine based on Ubuntu Linux.
Let's mark an end on this chapter.
Let's come back in the next chapter.
We can see again a deployment has been submitted onto Azure.
It's coming in the notification.
And as always we'll get another notification once the deployment is complete.

--- Lab - Connecting to the Linux machine ---

Now, once the deployment is complete, I can click on go on to the resource.
This will take me on to my web VM virtual machine.
I can see this machine is allocated a public IP address.
This IP address will be different from that allocated onto a VM.
This is based on Ubuntu Linux and we can see the size of the machine.
I can go on to the portal menu, right click on all resources and open the link in a new tab.
It's good to have a view of all of the resources that you currently have as part of your account, because
now you have two machines in place.
So we have app VM, we have web VM and we have the resources of the public IP address.
This is the additional one and the network security group.
We should also be having the OS level disk as well.
Just click on refresh.
Maybe it just takes time but we should be having that as a resource.
Also because we do have a new OS level disk that's distance attached onto the web VM resource.
Okay.
Now we want to connect onto VM.
I can click on the connect option.
Notice that when you want to connect onto a Linux distribution we can't use RTP.
We can't use the Remote Desktop Protocol.
The RDP file is used to connect onto windows based machines.
Here we want to connect onto a Linux based machine.
Now I'm on a laptop that's based on Windows 11.
One way in which we can connect onto the Linux machine is.
First of all, I'll just copy the public IP address of this machine on the clipboard.
This is for my Azure VM.
For web VM.
I'll go to windows menu and open up Command prompt on my local machine.
I'll type in SSH so we can secure shell.
We can use this protocol to log into our VM that is based on a Linux distribution I can put in the username
that I've mentioned for my machine in the wizard, right when deploying the Linux machine itself.
Add the rate.
Right click on my mouse to put in the public IP address of my web VM machine.
I'll hit on enter.
It's saying are you sure you want to connect to the machine?
I'll type in.
Yes.
It's now asking me for the password.
I'll enter the password and we are now connected onto our Linux based machine.
Another way in which you can connect from your windows machine, you know, from a windows laptop onto
the Linux based machine is to download the Putty tool.
So this is a freely available tool that you can download and install on your local machine.
So if I go on to the 64 bit windows installer, let me download the tool, the package on my local machine.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
So once I have the MSI installed in place, let me start the installation process.
In the wizard I'll just click on next.
Click on next.
So this is a client utility that you can use to connect onto Linux based machines.
Click on finish.
Then in the windows menu I'll search for the application I'll need to put in what is the IP address
of my web VM machine.
Click on open.
Click on accept.
So here I need to enter my username and the password.
And then I should be connected onto the Linux based machine.
So these are the two ways in which you can connect from your windows based client onto the Linux based
machine.

--- Lab - Deploying a web server on the Linux machine ---

Now, similar to, you know, the exercise we had seen when it comes when it came on to a windows based
server, there we install a role known as internet Information Services to make the server behave as
a web server.
Similarly, for a Linux based distribution, we can go ahead and also have a web server running.
Now it's not the same process because I said what we did in terms of installing internet information
services, that was pertinent onto basically a windows based machine.
What we want to do is we want to kind of install something known as a package that will make now our
Linux machine behave as a web server.
For this, I'm going to install a package known as nginx.
So nginx is a very popular web server that we can install on a Linux based machine.
For this I'm going to execute some commands.
Now see here we are connected onto the web VM machine.
Here I'm going to execute some commands.
The first command is to update something known as the package index on the machine itself.
So let me do a sudo apt update and update the package index.
Please note from an exam perspective, you are not required to know how to do all of this in terms of
installing web servers.
It is my way of making sure that you'll understand these core concepts that we can deploy multiple machines.
We can deploy both Windows and Linux based machines.
We can install workloads on these machines.
Now, once I've done the update of the package index, I'm going to issue a command to install the nginx
package so that nginx is a very popular web server that we can install actually both on windows based
machines and even Linux based machines.
I'll hit on enter, so I need to do a sudo.
App install nginx.
It's saying that you want to continue.
Yes I do.
And now it's downloading the package from the internet.
So the VMs actually have the ability to communicate with the internet.
The VMs have the ability to download information from the internet.
So now it's downloading the nginx package on the VM itself and it's installing nginx.
Now we have nginx running as a web server on this machine.
How do we confirm.
Well I will need to again take what is the public IP address assigned on VM.
In another tab send an HTTP request on the machine.
But again this is not going to work.
And why?
It's because of the network security group.
So what I'll do is let me go on to the network settings of VM.
Here.
Scroll down.
Let me create an inbound port rule.
Again, the same thing we are done for our windows based machine.
I'm adding a security rule to allow inbound traffic for HTTP requests in terms of the service.
I'll choose HTTP and click on add.
Now please note that you can have just one network security group for your machines.
Something that you can do.
We are doing it very, very simple wherein we are following whatever the browser is doing for us when
creating the machine itself.
Now if I refresh this page, I should be able to see the home page for nginx.
That is a web server running on the Linux based machine.
Right now I can see the home page for nginx.
So in this chapter I want to showcase now how we can have now a web server running on a Linux based
machine.

--- Lab - Deploying a web server on the Linux machine - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Connecting to the Linux machine from macOS ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can connect onto our Linux based machine from a mac
OS device.
So you're in Mac Studio.
You can have logged on to the Azure portal.
I have my web VM machine in place.
We will need to connect using the public IP address of the machine on my Mac client.
I'm going to open up the utilities and within utilities I'll open up the terminal.
From the terminal let's use SSH to secure shell order machines or Linux admin at the rate.
What is the public IP address of the machine.
And we should be able to connect using the username and the password.
And we are connected onto our Linux based machine.
So similarly to using SSH on a windows based device, on a windows based client to connect onto the
Linux based machine, we can also use SSH to connect from our Mac device as well.

--- Note on vCPU quota ---

Hi and welcome back.
In this chapter, I briefly want to go through this concept of having quotas in place when it comes
onto services as part of your Azure account.
Here, if I go on to my subscriptions so we only have one subscription in place, that is Azure Subscription
one.
If I click on this and we go ahead and just hide this tab so we can see the details about the subscription.
If I go on to the settings and under settings, if I click on Usage and Quotas, we have different quotas
in place when it comes onto the various services.
Currently there is a filter based on the provider of compute.
That means it's showing us what is the quota in terms of compute that we can use.
We can see that when it comes on to using the quota of standard B2S family of virtual CPUs, we've already
used up 75%.
Currently, as part of the Azure free account, during the first 30 days there are some restrictions
in place.
So in terms of the total number of virtual CPUs, it seems that I can only use a total of four virtual
CPUs.
Currently I'm using three, so two are attached onto the windows based virtual machine and one is attached
onto the Linux based virtual machine.
I just want to give this quick note, because sometimes students do, you know, get issues when they
try to build multiple virtual machines at a time, you know, in a particular region based on a particular
instance type, based on a particular virtual machine size.
Hence, I want to give this quick note that we do have these usage quotas in place when it comes onto
services such as compute.

--- Deleting your resources ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the all important process of deleting resources.
So far, we have seen how we could use Azure based services to build resources as part of our Azure
account.
But once you are done, when you don't require the resources anymore, you can always go in and delete
the resources.
At any point in time, you can go ahead and recreate the machine that is always possible when you are
learning.
When you don't need resources anymore, go ahead and delete the resources.
It's a good, uh, you know, it's always good to go ahead and perform a cleanup once you are done working
with Azure based services.
Now, in terms of deleting resources, you know, from the All Resources tab, I could go ahead and
check all of my resources and click on the delete button here.
It's saying that these are the resources that we need to delete.
Do you want to confirm the deletion process so we can delete the resources altogether here itself.
We can also delete the resources one by one.
So I could go on to, let's say, my app VM machine here.
There should be an option to delete the app VM machine itself, so we can delete resources at an individual
level.
Or I could go on to the entire.
So I'm going on to resource groups.
Click on my app group resource group I'll just hide this and I can delete the entire resource group.
When you do delete the entire resource group, it will delete all of the resources within the resource
group itself.
So let me do that.
Let me copy the resource group name, place it here and click on delete.
So what we're doing is we are deleting the entire resource group.
And when you do this it will delete all the resources within the resource group itself.
I told you, it's always a good practice to delete resources when they are no longer required, right?
So let's mark on to this chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Marketplace for Virtual Machines ---

Now I've come back after some time.
So in the last chapter I performed the operation of deleting my entire resource group.
Now, if I go onto all resources in one tab, I can see I only have my network watcher resource in place
and that's fine.
This is actually part of another resource group.
There is no cost linked with using this network watcher resource or having it in place.
In terms of the notification, I have got a notification that indeed my resource group is no longer
available because we have performed the operation of deleting the resource group.
If I go on to my other tab in all resources again the same result.
I don't have any resources in place apart from my network watcher resource.
In this chapter, I briefly want to go through another example of building a VM.
I'm going to use again an image in the marketplace.
This time I want to showcase that in addition to just having a server in place, you know, which has
the OS in place.
I want to also show you all that in the marketplace.
Vendors also published their products in which, you know, in addition to the server, you'll also
have the software application already installed.
So as an example, you know, you probably would have heard of WordPress has a blogging solution.
If you want to host the WordPress solution on a virtual machine.
So first you need to have the VM in place.
Then you download the WordPress solution and then installed accordingly.
But in the Azure marketplace, we have solutions in place that will already have WordPress running on
them.
So I want to, you know, give you all an example on how we can create now a resource based on a solution
that's already available in the Azure marketplace.
So again here I want to build a VM.
What I'll do is, uh, let me go on to virtual machines.
I want to create an Azure VM.
Now, I don't have my resource group in place, so let me go ahead and recreate my resource group.
I'll give the same name of app Group.
I'll give a name for the VM as WordPress VM.
Any North Europe location.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
Now in terms of my image let me click on see all images.
So this is the entire Azure Marketplace.
Now within the Azure Marketplace we have solutions that are, you know, that have already been deployed
by Microsoft, wherein we can have windows servers in place, we can have Windows 10 based machines,
so on and so forth.
But I want to search for a particular solution that will have WordPress installed by default on a virtual
machine.
Now here I can see a number of solutions in place in the Azure Marketplace when it comes onto WordPress.
So we have different vendors who publish these solutions.
You have to be very careful on what solutions you choose.
So for me, I normally go for the solutions that are powered by Microsoft, but in WordPress.
So we can see that there are a number of vendors that provide their solutions.
I mean, if you already know the vendor, you can go ahead and choose the solution accordingly.
When it comes onto WordPress, I want to search for the vendor of Bitnami.
So I'll do is I'll go on to the publisher name and just search for the publisher name as Bitnami.
I'll choose the WordPress, the Bitnami package for WordPress, the middle one.
I'll select and choose this particular package.
So I knew this particular vendor.
Hence, I'm choosing a solution from the vendor itself for deploying WordPress has a solution.
Now saying this image is not compatible with the selected security type.
So here I'll just choose it as standard.
That's fine.
Scroll down.
In terms of these size standard underscore b-1s is fine.
So all of the aspects in terms of building the machine are quite similar to what we've seen earlier
on.
The only difference is here I have chosen a solution from the Azure Marketplace, which will not only
ensure that I have a machine based on, let's say, a Linux distribution, it will also ensure that
WordPress has a solution is installed on the machine in the authentication type.
Again I'll put password and mention a username and password.
I'm now going to log on to the machine.
I also want to deploy the machine and make sure it works as expected.
I'll go on to the next for the This won't create any disc.
Obviously, this wizard will create a new virtual network because I don't have a network in place.
A new subnet, a new public IP address.
Leave everything as it is on the management monitoring advance tags.
Go on review and create.
Now in the final screen.
So just saying it's unable to read the prices and legal terms.
But I think that's fine.
I just want you to note that when it comes to the pricing for this particular solution, again, we're
only going to be charged for the running costs of the virtual machine.
See note here that in addition to the machine, in addition to the OS, we are also having a solution
in place for a particular vendor when they publish a solution.
Sometimes you might need to pay for the solution as well, so you not only pay for the running cost
of the VM, the CPU time, you would also be paying for the solution Illusion that is going to get installed
on the machine.
So here we are installing a WordPress solution.
But by default WordPress solution is free of cost.
The only thing is we are being charged for the running cost of the VM itself.
I'll go ahead and click on create and this should go ahead with the creation of the machine.
Again this will just take a few minutes.
Let's wait and come back once this is complete.
Now I've come back after around five minutes.
I have my VM in place.
Again, go on to the resource and in another tab if I go onto all resources and click on refresh.
So again I can see my normal resources such as my VM for the WordPress solution, the IP address, so
on and so forth.
Nothing different.
The only difference is okay, so this is based on another Linux distribution.
And on this machine we not only have the OS.
So WordPress has a solution is also installed on this machine.
How can we confirm if I take the public IP address and go on to a new tab?
Send an HTTP request via the public IP address.
And I'm getting the kind of home page for the user's blog for the WordPress solution.
So in this chapter, I just want to kind of showcase that we do have these solutions, these inbuilt
solutions available in the Azure marketplace in which that template, you know, not only has the OS,
the operating system, it also has a solution installed.
Right.
We can have applications already installed on the system by the use of particular templates.
Okay, now that we are done, let me go on to all resources.
I'll check all of my resources, including the Network Watcher resource, and click on delete.
Since we don't require the resource anymore, I'll delete the resources accordingly.

--- Adding stability for your systems ---

Now, in the next chapters, we're going to go through features that allow us to increase the availability
of our systems at an infrastructure level.
And here we are focusing on our virtual machines.
But before that, before I go through these concepts, you know, we are going to look at something
known as availability sets.
We are going to look at something known as availability zones.
But before all of this, I want to go through the important concept as to why do we need to consider
these terms of high availability?
Why do we need to add some stability to our entire system?
Now consider that you have an application.
So let's say a company has an e-commerce application hosted on a virtual machine.
And your users from the internet who are accessing the web application itself.
Now, what happens if the entire machine that is hosting the application goes down?
The e-commerce application is no longer available.
Customers are dissatisfied.
You know, you lose customer confidence and you also have a loss in revenue as well.
See, Azure has a cloud platform does ensure high availability of their services, but from a platform
level, no one can guarantee a complete 100% availability for online services.
Also, you know your VM could go down for a variety of reasons.
There could be something wrong at the application level that could be causing problems at the virtual
machine level.
So there are so many cases as to why your VM can go down.
Businesses that have critical and revenue generating applications on the cloud or even in their on premises
environment, they always look at options into making their application Tolerant to failures.
So if there is a failure at the application level, there should be a process or a procedure on how
to recover from that failure.
If there is a failure at the infrastructure level, again there needs to be some process, something
that can be done to make the system, you know, highly available in nature and tolerant to such failures.
So you always hear terms like high availability, fault tolerance, so on and so forth.
At an infrastructure level, we can make our system tolerant to.
False.
False at the infrastructure level.
In the next chapters, we are going to go through two concepts known as available sets and availability
zones.
This helps to add kind of that stability at an infrastructure level when it comes onto your virtual
machines.

--- Availability Sets ---

Hi and welcome back.
So in this chapter I want to go through the concept of availability sets.
In the last chapter I talked about that overview of, you know, the need of adding stability to your
entire systems and an infrastructure layer when it comes on to your virtual machines.
We do have some features in place for adding, you know, higher availability to your infrastructure.
In this chapter, I want to go through the use of something known as availability sets.
So again, let's take the use case example where in a company is hosting an application on just a single
Azure virtual machine.
I told you, if you have a very critical application running on the machine, and if the machine goes
down, the application is no longer available, it can result in a loss of revenue and a loss of customer
confidence, so on and so forth.
Hence, you want to ensure that the application is always running.
Hence, you want to make sure that it's tolerant to faults at different layers.
Told you that the application can go down on its own due to several reasons.
The application could cause problems on the VM.
The VM could go down.
The VM can also go down for other reasons.
At the infrastructure layer.
See for example, we know that the virtual machine in the end is hosted on a physical server in an Azure
data center.
There could be faults in the underlying physical layer.
So there could be probably a network issue a power issue.
If this is the case, then it would cause a problem to the physical server and hence cause a problem
to the virtual machine.
I said Azure makes sure that their infrastructure is always, you know, highly available, but no one
can guarantee a complete 100% availability for infrastructure.
Although sometimes Microsoft has to perform vital updates to their physical machines.
These physical machines again are hosting your virtual machines.
Sometimes when these updates are applied, it would require a reboot of the entire physical server.
Now, if a reboot is required of the physical server, even though it is a fraction of a time, it could
just take a few minutes.
But in that few minutes, your application will no longer be available because your virtual machine
will be down.
Again, it's a problem for a company if they are having a critical application in place, a critical
application running on the VM.
So what companies normally do is they increase the availability of these critical applications by making
sure that they have multiple machines in place.
So they'll have the application running on multiple Azure VMs.
So if one machine were to go down, the application would still be available on another machine.
But the problem is that when you launch a VM, you have no control over what physical server the VM
is located on.
Let's say that both machines are launched on the same physical server in the Azure Data Center.
Again, we have that same problem wherein if there is a power failure that impacts this particular physical
server, both machines are down.
Or when Microsoft needs to perform an update on the physical server itself.
Again, both machines are down.
So what you can do is you can distribute your machines across your physical infrastructure by placing
them as part of something known as an availability set.
So what exactly is an availability set?
An And a baby set is a logical grouping of machines that helps you reduce the chances of multiple VMs
going down because of hardware issues.
To make use of availability sets, you need to deploy a machine to the availability set itself.
The machine can only be part of the set when it is created, so you can't add currently an existing
machine as part of an availability set.
So when you create the machine at that point in time, you have to make the machine part of an availability
set.
So how does availability sets actually help in the case of these power failures?
In terms of whenever Microsoft needs to perform an update on the underlying physical infrastructure.
So when a machine is made part of an available set, the machine is allocated on something known as
a fault and an update domain.
So A-b-b sets are made up of various fault and update domains.
What is a fault domain?
A fault domain defines a group of machines that share a common power source and network switch.
What are update domains?
Update domains are used to signify the group of machines and physical hosts that can be rebooted at
the same time.
So let's say that a company, you know, they have an application that is being used extensively.
Hence they have six machines in place just for the application itself to make sure that you have high
availability.
I said if you want to deploy these six machines as they were, maybe they might be located on the same
physical server and have the same problem at the infrastructure layer.
But if you make these machines part of an availability set, the available set has different fault and
update domains.
means.
So when the machines are made part of the available set, they are allocated to different fault and
update domains.
So let's say out of these six machines, two machines are part of fault domain zero.
So at the infrastructure layer let's say there's a problem with the power supply and Ethernet switch
of just for domain zero.
It would only impact these two machines.
It will not impact the other machines.
So at fault layer you are trying to isolate the issues when it comes on the power supply.
You know, things such as the power supply network such as etc. by placing the machines as part of different
fault domains and at the same time the machines are placed as part of different update domains.
So when Microsoft needs to publish updates to the physical servers, the updates are made to, you know,
each update domain at a time.
Obey domain zero could be one set of physical servers.
So when the updates need to go as part of this update domain, it only impacts this particular virtual
machine.
When the updates are done to this update domain, then the updates go on to the next update domain.
So this machine will be up and running and the updates will then impact this machine.
But in the end you still have machines available because they are part of other update domains.
When you create an available set, you can decide on the number of fault domains that you want and the
number of update domains.
Now note that there is no additional cost for using a baby sets.
Obviously from a costing perspective, right?
You are only again charged based on the number of machines that you have running as part of your entire
system.
Now, in the next update, I want to showcase how simple it is to go ahead and create machines as part
of an availability set.

--- Lab - Availability Sets ---

Right here.
I'm in my.
Right here.
I'm in my Azure account.
Let's go ahead and see how do we place VMs as part of an availability set.
Let's go on to virtual machines and deploy a new VM.
Now that we are familiar with deploying VMs, I'll go a bit faster in terms of going through the various
screens.
Once you start practicing building resources based on services, you'll get yourself more familiarized
with the different screens that are there with the different areas within the Azure portal.
So keep on practicing.
I said using the services building resources.
I'll choose my existing resource group.
Let me give a name for the machine.
Please note that I am not going to install anything on the machine.
I will not log on to the machine.
I just want to showcase when you build your machine, how do you make it part of an availability set.
So in the North Europe location.
Now this time when it comes onto the availability options.
So we have options such as the availability zone.
We have something known as a virtual machine scale set.
And we have an availability set.
Let me choose an availability set.
Since there are no a baby sets in the current resource group and location.
I'm going to create a new set.
So this is going to be a new resource.
The set is a new resource based on the service of a baby set itself.
I'll just give a very simple name.
Now in terms of these sets, I can go up to a max of currently three fault domains.
And in terms of update domains it's five.
I can go up to a maximum of 20.
But let me keep it as a default of two fault four domains and five update domains.
Let me click on okay and that's it.
When deploying the machine, we just need to make sure that the machine is part of an availability set.
Let me keep the image as it is.
Let me keep the size hazardous.
Again select password and enter my different password details.
I'll directly go on to review and Create, and I'll go ahead and click on create.
Let me just wait for a few minutes once the deployment is complete and then we'll come back.
Now I've come back after around five minutes I can see my deployment is complete.
I can go on to the resource itself.
Nothing has changed from the resource perspective.
But in another tab, if I go on all resources in addition to my app VM zero one machine, I can see
the resource of my availability set.
If I click on the available set itself and just hide this so we can see that our machine app VM zero
one is running as part of this availability set, it has been attached onto fault domain number zero
and update domain number zero.
So now if I go ahead and launch another machine quickly.
So going back onto virtual machines let me create a new VM.
My existing resource group quickly give a new machine name in North Europe in terms of the availability
options.
This time again I will choose a baby set.
This time I should be able to choose my existing ability set and the other options remain as they are.
Let me go to next for the disk on networking.
Now in networking, it's actually building this machine as part of a new virtual network.
The wizard has not detected that there is already a virtual network in place, and hence it's trying
to create a new virtual network.
What I'll do is let me actually just take the entire URL, go on to a new tab and refresh, you know,
the entire page just to make sure that Azure detects that it indeed already has a virtual network in
place.
Sometimes we can have this issue.
Let me go on to virtual machines and choose to create a new Azure VM.
Choose.
My existing resource group can give a machine name part of the availability set.
Choose my set again.
Choose the image.
Now let me go on to the disk.
Go on networking.
So now I'm getting the existing virtual network along with the subnet.
I'll go on review and create an image.
Go ahead and create this virtual machine.
So I'll go ahead and click on create.
And let's come back once you have the machine in place once deployment for the new machine is complete.
Again let me go on to all resources.
I'll go on to my availability set.
And within the available set we can see now our second machine has been assigned onto a fault domain
of one and an update domain of one.
So whenever a fault does occur at the fault domain level, so let's say it has occurred at fault domain
zero, it will only impact APM zero one.
It will not impact APM zero two.
Similarly, when Microsoft performs updates on the underlying physical machines, it will do one update
domain at a time.
So when it first does it for update domain zero and if a restart is required on the underlying physical
infrastructure, it would only impact APM zero one.
So with the use of a baby sets, we can distribute our VMs across different fault and update domains.
Okay, now that we are done, I'll go on to all resources and delete them accordingly.

--- Availability Zones ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the prior chapter, we discussed the concept of a query sets wherein, you know, we can spread
our machines across multiple fault and update domains.
And by doing so we are, you know, kind of distributing our machines across different power supplies,
Ethernet switches and making sure when updates are done, they are only carried out to a set of machines
at a time.
But what we need to remember is that in the end, the physical infrastructure when it comes onto an
available set, all of them are located within a single data center within a particular Azure region.
What if we need to make sure that our infrastructure is available, even if a data center were to go
down?
Again, this is not a very likely event, but let's say there's a power outage on the entire data center
takes time to get everything online again, your infrastructure is again not available.
Well, we can make use of something known as availability zones within Azure regions.
Not all of them, but most of them.
Regions have something known as availability zones.
What exactly is an availability zone?
This is a group of data centers.
There are fast links across the baby zones to ensure low latency.
So when you are now deploying your VMs, what you can do is insert deploying the VMs onto an availability
set.
You can deploy the VMs across different availability zones.
So for example, here you can have two machines that are part of one availability zone.
And a baby zone is made up of multiple data centers.
If the entire zone were to go down, you will still have machines available in the other zones in the
same Azure region again.
You'll be telling me, Alan, seriously, do we really need to consider building machines across different
zones?
I said, sometimes companies have these critical applications that generate revenue on a per second
basis, and every second that the infrastructure is down, the application is down.
They lose money.
So in such cases, companies do need to consider how do they make their applications highly available?
How do they make their infrastructure highly available?
Now again, when it comes on to using availability zones, there is no cost as such.
But there is a cost when it comes on to data transfer between a baby zones.
So if there is data being transferred across machines across a baby zones, then there is a data transfer
charge.
Let me go into showcase how simple it is to go ahead and just deploy a machine as part of an availability
zone.

--- Lab - Availability Zones for virtual machines ---

Right.
In this chapter, let's build an Azure VM.
A very simple process, but this time let's make it part of an availability zone.
Go on to VMs again, I don't have any resources in place.
I'll create a new Azure Virtual Machine.
Again, I don't want to log on to the machine.
Just want to showcase how do we make the machine part of an availability zone?
I'll choose my region.
So within North Europe I can see that we do have the ability to make the machine part of an availability
zone.
We can choose the zone.
So here I can choose zone one.
So there are three zones in the North Europe location.
And that's it.
I can go ahead with the creation of the machine.
It will go ahead and create a new virtual network.
I can directly go on to review and create and create the VM.
Let me click on create and let's come back once you have the machine in place.
Now once the deployment is complete I can go on to the VM itself.
And now you will see that this VM is part of a baby zone one.
So if you want to add, you know, high availability to your underlying infrastructure for your VMs,
make sure that you deploy multiple VMs and at the same time make sure the VMs are deployed onto different
availability zones.
Quite simple.
Again, now that we are done, I'll go onto all resources and delete my resources accordingly.

--- Azure Dedicated Host ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go to this concept of an Azure dedicated host.
Now, in the prior chapters, when we've been launching virtual machines, the virtual machine I told
you, will be located on some sort of physical server in an Azure data center.
Now other customers, Azure customers with their own accounts, they could also create virtual machines.
So along with let's say our machines and the other customers, VMs could be located on these same physical
server.
But for large organization they might want to control the underlying physical server.
They might want to have a dedicated server for launching their virtual machines.
So at a physical layer they want to be able to have control over the physical server.
Well they can do this with the help of Azure dedicated host.
Here the physical servers are in the Azure Data Center, but they are allocated as a hardware resource
to the company.
You can then launch multiple virtual machines on the same physical server, and you can also control
the maintenance events on the physical server itself.
Now I won't be able to go through the process.
It's not that important from an exam perspective for the dedicated host.
But you know, if we try to search for the particular service in the Azure marketplace.
Here I can see that I can create something known as a dedicated host.
I probably might need to create something known as a host group.
So if I, for example, in the wizard to create the dedicated host, I can choose my resource group.
I can just give kind of host name quickly in North Europe.
So I need to create something known as a new host group.
I'll click on creating a new host group.
Again, just give a name, click on add.
Then you can decide on the family type.
Now, for example, if I choose a default family type and leave the default domain as it is.
Let me go on to review and create.
I should be getting an error if I go on to the basic screen.
So here it's saying that in order to basically create this host based on this family, we need around
112 virtual CPUs.
See, we are trying to have an entire physical server allocated to us so that we can build a virtual
machines on it.
So obviously those physical servers will have a lot of virtual CPUs.
But for us, we are kind of in a very basic Azure account where we only have four virtual CPUs allocated
to us.
But I just want to showcase a concept that we can go ahead and, you know, request Azure.
Please go ahead and just have a physical server for us.
And then on this physical server we should be able to launch our virtual machine.
So we just want to have more control over the physical aspect of the server itself.

--- More on costs for Virtual Machines ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters, I want to go through some pricing concepts when it comes onto Azure
VMs.
First and foremost, in this chapter, I want to go through some basic concepts when it comes onto the
on demand pricing for virtual machines.
Here I am on the page when it comes onto Windows Virtual Machine pricing.
If I scroll down, there are different pricing options in place.
We have something known as a pay as you go model.
So currently for us that is what we have been doing.
This is the on demand pricing where we pay based on how much we use.
We also have other pricing models in place.
We have something known as Azure Saving plans for compute.
We have reserved instances and we have spot.
In the next chapter, I'll go through spot virtual machines in brief and then go through reserved,
reserved pricing.
For this chapter.
I want to go through the concept of pay as you go.
So currently what we've been doing is we've been spinning up Azure VMs based on, let's say, windows
or based on, let's say, Linux.
We have been deploying our machines onto the North Europe location.
On this page we can see the on demand pricing if I scroll down.
So let's say based on this particular VM series type, for an instance of b to S, let's say version
two which has two virtual CPUs and eight gigs of Ram.
We can see what is the pay as you go pricing, right?
Something per month.
And there's something with the savings plan.
If I change this.
So we have these various parameters on top.
If I change the region from let's say east US to UK South.
Now if I scroll down you will see that the pricing has changed.
You know when it comes on to this particular virtual machine size.
So the pricing for a particular instance or particular virtual machine not only depends upon the virtual
machine size based on the number of virtual CPUs, and Ram also depends upon the region.
So there is a price difference on a region by region basis.
Sometimes when companies need to decide on their region for resources, one of the important parameters
is obviously they want to make sure that the resources that they deploy, you know, let's say they're
deploying a VM.
They want to make sure that the VM is closest to their users.
Let's say they have an application being hosted on the VM.
They want to make sure that the application is closest to the users.
Hence they will choose a region that's closest to the users themselves, the user base.
That's one important decision as to choosing a region.
Another decision, another factor that could impact the decision of what region to choose for resources
would be the cost.
They would probably want to choose a region where the cost is the least.
Let's say when it comes to virtual machines.
So when it comes to pricing, yes, it does depend not only on the VM series, you know, the type of
instance.
It also depends upon the region and also depends upon the software.
So when it comes to windows, in terms of the pricing for Windows Server, the licensing price for Windows
Server would also be embedded within the pricing on a monthly basis for the VM itself.
You could go for, let's say, a Linux distribution, which could be free in terms of the OS based pricing.
So in this chapter, I just want to kind of give an overall picture when it comes onto the pay as you
go pricing model, wherein we have to understand that the pricing depends upon the OS.
Software depends upon, obviously your instance type, you know, the VM series that you're using and
also on the region.

--- Azure Spot Virtual Machines ---

Now in this chapter, in continuation to the pricing models when it comes on to virtual machines.
So we have the on demand pricing where we pay based on how much we use.
We also have something known as Azure Spot Virtual Machines.
Now Azure Spot Virtual Machines allows you to take advantage of the unused capacity that Azure has to
offer.
For example, you know, I told you that when it comes to VMs, in the end, these VMs are located on
physical machines.
Let's say that Azure has unused capacity in place in terms of physical infrastructure, and they want
to make use of this unused capacity.
Hence, they would allow you to build virtual machines on this unused capacity and also at the same
time save on costs.
So you can get significant cost savings by using Azure Spot virtual machines.
So if I try to quickly just showcase this.
So if I choose to create an Azure VM, you know, we've already seen the creation of the VM itself.
If I choose a resource group just give a name for the machine in North Europe, no infrastructure redundancy
required.
See here.
Now I can run with Azure Spot discount.
Now when I choose the option of run with Azure Spot discount.
It's tell me something known as an eviction type and an eviction policy.
Now, even though you know we are getting the benefit of using the unused capacity at a significant
discount, so what will happen is the price that we pay for running this instance will be less than
the price we would normally pay for on demand pricing.
But when Azure requires the capacity back then it will go ahead and evict your virtual machine.
That means you will lose your virtual machine.
So this is a risk, right?
You are getting a VM at a significant cost saving.
But at the same time, if Azure needs its capacity back, it can go and actually evict your Azure VM.
This is good when you have workloads that don't need to run 24 by seven, but if you have web applications,
you will probably not use these spot virtual machines.
If you have some batch jobs that need to run and they could run even if you lose the VM at a later point
in time, then you can consider the use of Azure Spot virtual machines.
But again, this is an option that you can use.
It's good for your batch processing jobs, your environments like dev and test that don't run a production
workload.

--- Reserved Pricing ---

In this chapter, I want to go through another pricing option that's available for your virtual machines,
and that's known as Azure Reserved Virtual Machine Instances.
Here you have the capability of saving up to 80%, you know, as compared with the pay as you go pricing.
But how does Azure reservations work?
Well, with Azure reservations, you need to commit to either a one year or a three year plan.
You know, for your virtual machines.
So this is in contrast when it comes on on demand pricing, wherein you are not tied down onto any sort
of commitment there, you only pay based on how much you use.
Here you are making a reservation here.
You're saying that yes, you are going to be using a particular virtual machine service for at least
a year or three years.
But here, in order to avail that significant discount, you will need to commit onto either a one year
or a three year plan.
In Azure if I search for reservations.
Let me choose to add reservation and reservations are not only available for the Azure Virtual Machine
Service, you can also reserve capacity for, let's say, Azure Blob, storage for Azure SQL database,
so on and so forth.
If I choose the Virtual Machine service, I'll go onto all products your search my subscription.
So currently it's saying that this subscription is not eligible for reservation and cannot be used.
And this is probably because we are not you know, we have that.
We are in that phase wherein we are in the first 30 days.
We are not using a pay as you go model currently.
Hence that's why it's giving the sort of error.
Let me try to log into one of my other Azure accounts.
So here I'm logged into one of my other Azure accounts, wherein I'm using the complete pay as you go
model.
Let me go ahead and search for reservations here and in under reservations.
Let me add a new reservation again for virtual machines.
In virtual machines, I'll go on all products.
And now here I can see the different virtual machine sizes in the, let's say UK South location.
We can commit either onto a three year term or a one year term.
We have the billing frequency in place.
If I go ahead and just add or choose one particular product, it's calculating the price.
You will see the monthly price per VM and the estimated savings when compared to using a pay as you
go model.
Here, the only thing is that you are making an upfront commitment of either one year or a three year
term to using the virtual machine kind of size itself.

--- Virtual Machine Scale Set service ---

Welcome back.
Now I want to go through a service known as the Virtual Machine Scale set service.
Before that, let's go through some concept as to why would we want to make use of this particular service
known as virtual machine scale sets?
Now consider that a company has a web application running on a virtual machine.
So let's say this is an e-commerce application.
Users across the world are making use of the application.
Let's say that the load has increased.
You know, the application usage has increased and it's causing an issue on the, you know, a performance
issue on the underlying virtual machine.
Let's say that currently the virtual machine is of a particular size wherein it has four virtual CPUs
and eight gigs of Ram.
What we can do is we can resize the machine to give it more hardware resources in terms, in terms of
virtual CPU and in terms of Ram.
This is an example of vertical scaling wherein we are increasing the hardware on the machine itself.
Now, for some time, this should resolve probably the issues when it comes on to performance.
But when the load increases even more, you know there is a point at which this sort of scaling in terms
of vertical scaling will not help.
What you might need to do then is to perform the act of horizontal scaling.
Where in you now create multiple virtual machines, and then you make sure that your application is
hosted across these machines.
So now when users actually hit your application, the user load will be, you know, or should be distributed
across these machines.
The benefit of this is it also minimizes the downtime.
So when you resize your machine, there might be a requirement wherein the machine might need to be
restarted.
So during that time your machine will not be available.
Your application will not be available.
But here when you're adding more and more machines onto your fleet, your application is still working
on the existing virtual machines, you're only adding more machines to the fleet to take in the additional
user load.
But then how can we, you know, add these machines onto our architecture that has we need more and
more machines for the load.
How do we add the machines?
Is someone going to check every time whether the load is increasing, you know, using a monitoring
tool and then start adding more machines?
And you know, sometimes the traffic is not constant, right?
The traffic for applications, the load could be high during the daytime and then light during the night
time.
So is it that we need someone during the daytime to actually monitor and add more machines to the infrastructure?
And then again in the night to basically decrease the number of machines?
Because see, we should also make sure that we don't have too many machines running as part of our architecture.
Because on Azure, as you run more and more machines, you are adding more and more to the cost.
Because you have more machines running, you have more cost per individual machine.
Hence, if machines are not required as part of your infrastructure, they should not be running.
You only add machines whenever they are required.
So for this, what you can do is we can make use of a service known as Azure Virtual Machine Scale sets.
This service helps you to create and manage a group of load balanced virtual machines.
The number of virtual machines can grow based on demand or based on a schedule.
So now what you do is you use the virtual machine scale set to actually create your machines.
The user traffic can then be obviously distributed across these machines.
But then you can define rules or scaling conditions in the scale set, which can determine when to increase
the number of machines in the set and when to decrease the number of machines.
Let's go on to the next chapter to see how we can build a virtual machine scale set.

--- Lab - Building a Virtual Machine Scale Set ---

So in this chapter, let's go ahead with the process of building a virtual machine scale set here within
my Azure account.
I'm in all resources.
I don't have any resources in place.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
Within the marketplace we can search for services.
So I want to search for the scale set service.
I'll search for virtual machine scale set.
I can see the service in place.
So under Virtual Machine Scale set I'll click on create and choose to create now a resource based on
the service.
Again we'll get an entire wizard with tabs in place in which we can configure the different aspects
about our scale set.
Again, the scale set needs to be part of a subscription and a resource group.
I'll select my existing resource group.
I'll just need to give a name for my virtual machine scale set.
I'll just give a very simple name.
This will be in the North Europe location.
Scroll down.
Now we have two types of orchestration modes.
We have something known as a flexible orchestration mode and uniform.
Now I'm going to choose uniform as my choice when it comes to orchestration mode.
What this does is it builds a scale set with identical virtual machines in flexible.
We could have identical virtual machines or have machines based on different machine types.
But to keep our use case very, very simple, let's build a virtual machine scale set based on identical
virtual machines.
Hence, in the orchestration mode, I'll choose uniform.
Let's scroll down.
Now what is the initial number of machines that you want running as part of the Virtual Machine scale
set, I'll put an initial count of just one.
Next, what are the details for the underlying machines that are going to be part of the virtual machine
scale set?
So I'm seeing that.
Let's have a scale set of machines.
Each machine will be based on Ubuntu Server 24.04.
Each machine will be based on this particular virtual machine size.
I'll mention the authentication type again as password and put in the username and password.
So all of this is important in terms of see when you're building a scale set you are looking at scaling
right.
You are probably looking at, you know, when the load increases on the application, you want more
machines to be running as part of the scale set.
Now when you have more machines running as part of the scale set, all of the machines will be running
on this particular size and this will dictate on the costing aspect.
So if you have more machines running on a higher size, higher will be the cost.
Hence, you have to be careful or choose wisely onto what should be the size of the machines that are
going to be part of your virtual machine scale set.
Go on next.
What we can do is we can make use of spot virtual machines to save on cost, but for us we are fine
because we are choosing the very basic pricing tier when it comes onto the size, go onto next for the
disk.
Again, each machine will get an OS level disk.
We always have the ability to create and attach data disk, but we don't want that.
For now, go on networking again.
Our virtual machine scale set needs to be part of a virtual network.
This wizard will create a new virtual network for us.
It'll create a new subnet.
The network interface is a little bit different on the way it's manage.
You're under network interface.
I'm going to click on the edit button.
Edit network interface button I want to make some slight changes.
Firstly I'm going to enable the public IP address for each and every machine.
That's going to be part of the scale set.
Now normally you will not do this.
Normally you will not attach a public IP address onto each and every machine.
The reason I'm doing this is later on, I want to showcase how the scaling, how we can induce scaling
on the scale set by putting an artificial load on one of the servers.
Hence, I want to have a public IP address so that I can log on to the machine.
Then in the public inbound ports, I'm going to say that please allow traffic on SSH so that we can
secure shell onto our Linux based machine.
I'll click on okay.
Click on next for management.
Leave everything as it is.
Go on to the health onto advanced tags review and create.
And let's go ahead and create our scale set.
What are we doing?
We are creating now a resource based on a service of a virtual machine scale set.
Initially, our scale set is only going to have one virtual machine running as part of the scale set
itself.
I'll wait for some time.
Let's come back once the deployment is complete.

--- Lab - Scaling the Virtual Machine Scale Set ---

Now I've come back.
I have the virtual machine scale set in place.
So we have again the details about the scale set.
If I click on instances, I can see I have one machine running as part of the scale set in another tab.
If I go on to all resources, I can see that in terms of resources, I have the network security group,
I have the virtual machine scale set, and then I have the virtual network.
The machine itself, which is running as an instance, is running within the virtual machine scale set.
So it's not running as a separate resource within Azure as a separate virtual machine.
No, it's being managed by the scale set itself.
And we can see it has an instance here.
Now I want to go through an example on how we can scale the number of machines within the virtual machine
scale set.
For this, I can go on to the ability and scale setting.
Go on to scaling.
And what we can do is we can configure automatic scaling of the scale set.
Yes, we can manually increase the number of machines within our scale set.
So we can perform a manual scaling where I can say okay I want two machines running as part of the scale
set.
But we can also create scaling conditions or scaling rules to automatically scale our machines in the
scale set.
If I click on Custom Auto scale here, we can now have conditions in place.
There is a default scaling condition where it is scaling based on a specific instance count, but we
can scale based on something known as a metric.
So what are we doing?
I am trying to add a condition in which we can perform scaling of the machines in the scale set.
Here I can mention what should be the minimum number of machines within the scale set based on this
condition.
What should be the maximum and the default?
Let me put the maximum has two and then I'll click on add a rule on how we should trigger these scaling
within the scale set.
The scale set you know, takes the set of metrics from an underlying service within Azure, known as
the Azure Monitoring Service.
Currently, what it's doing is it's looking at the CPU percentage of the entire virtual machine scale
set.
So currently there is absolutely nothing in terms of CPU percentage because I have nothing running on
that single machine as part of the scale set.
So I said it's doing a continuous monitoring of the CPU percentage of the machines within the virtual
machine scale set.
Now what I can do is I can say I can create a rule saying that please go ahead and increase the count
by.
So we have different options in place here.
I can say please increase the number of instances in my scale set by one if the CPU goes beyond 70%.
Now currently the CPU is not even reaching 1%, but I'm going to induce some artificial load on that
one machine in my scale set in a moment's time.
What I want to do first is I want to add something known as a rule.
So in this rule, I'm telling that please go ahead and increase the count by one.
Right.
Increase one more machine as part of the scale set.
If the CPU, the threshold for the CPU goes beyond 70% for a duration of ten minutes, let me go ahead
and add this rule.
So now we have a rule in place as part of the scale set.
Let me click on save.
Now here it's giving me an error.
Let's look at the notification in terms of the error message.
Now here it's saying that the subscription is not registered to use the namespace Microsoft Insights.
So what we'll do is in another tab let me go on to the subscriptions.
I'll go on to the Azure subscription.
I'll scroll down, go on to resource providers.
There are different resource providers in place that you know.
This gives the functionality to Azure to use the various services.
Let me search for that particular provider of insights so I can see Microsoft Insights.
I'll click on this and click on register.
So all I'm doing is I'm just telling that we can use this particular kind of insights provider or insights
type as part of our subscription.
Let me wait for a minute or two.
Once the registration is complete.
And let's try to add the rule again in just a couple of minutes.
I have received a notification that the provider is now registered when it comes to Microsoft Insights.
Now for the skill set.
I probably will need to refresh this entire page again.
So what I'll do is let me go on to the overview.
Or better yet, let me go on to the Azure portal in another tab.
Just close this one.
Go on to the skill set again and choose to modify the condition by adding the rule.
So I'll go on all resources and within all resources go on to the Virtual Machine scale set.
Go on to scaling.
Again.
Choose custom auto scale.
Scroll down and say that we want to scale based on a metric a maximum of two.
Let me choose to add a rule again based on the CPU metric of the virtual machine scale set.
I'll scroll down greater than 70% for a duration of ten minutes.
That's fine.
Increase the count by one.
Click on add and click on save right.
So this is done in case if you are still getting the error, just wait again for a minute or two and
try to click on save again.
So now we have a rule in place as part of our skill set.
What the rule is saying is if the CPU percentage of the machines in the skill set goes beyond 70%,
then go ahead and add another machine as part of the set.
Currently, we only have one instance running as part of the skill set.
Let me go on to the instance itself.
Let us connect.
Now this is based on Ubuntu Linux.
So I'll take the public IP address, open up command prompt on my local machine, perform a secure shell
using the username add rate.
Right click on my mouse to add the public IP address.
So I want to connect on to this machine.
I'm going to install a tool on the machine.
So we are now logged in onto the machine that's running as part of the scale set.
Let me do a update for the package index first.
Okay.
Once done, I issue the command to install a tool known as stress.
This tool.
You know, using this tool we should be able to induce an artificial stress on the server.
Okay.
Once done I'll actually run the tool.
And I said using this command I'll put a stress on the server.
Now let's wait for around ten minutes.
Remember that the rule is going to look at the CPU percentage of the virtual machine scale set over
a duration of ten minutes.
If the CPU is going beyond a particular threshold, then it should go and add an additional instance
as part of the scale set.
So let's wait and come back after some time.
Now I've come back after around ten minutes here under the instances of the virtual Machine scale set.
If I click on refresh, I can now see that I have one more instance running as part of the scale set
itself.
If I go on to the overview of the scale set and scroll down, we have different tabs in place.
If I go on to the monitoring tab, we can see the average CPU utilization over time, usually because
of the artificial load that the CPU threshold went beyond 100%.
It's now gone down because we have one more machine added to the entire scale set architecture.
So the CPU percentage is being taken as a measure of both machines running as part of the scale Skill
set.
Obviously, what is also important is if I go back onto scaling here in the condition, we can add another
rule onto our condition.
Here I can see that whenever the CPU threshold goes below 70% for a duration of again ten minutes,
then go ahead and decrease the count by one instance.
So you should always be having both type of rules in place wherein you kind of, you know, scale out
the number of machines by adding more machines whenever there is an increased load and then scale back
in once the load has decreased.
So in these chapters, I want to go through how we can work with virtual machine scale sets.
Now that we're done, I'll go ahead and delete my resources accordingly.

--- Lab - Scaling the Virtual Machine Scale Set - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- About Azure Web Apps ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give an introduction onto Azure Web Apps.
And then in the subsequent chapter, we look at an example on using this particular service.
Now when it comes on to hosting a web application, we have a number of options in place when it comes
onto Azure.
What we can do is for a virtual machine, we can install a web server and then host our application.
When it comes onto a virtual machine, the underlying physical server is managed for you in the underlying
data center by the service itself.
But sometimes a company does not even want the hassle of maintaining even the virtual machine infrastructure.
They want to have a managed service for hosting the web application.
Well, for this they can make use of Azure Web App Service.
So this is a managed service wherein the physical server and the virtual infrastructure is managed for
you.
Here you only have to basically deploy your code on the web service and that's it.
You know, everything will be running in the background for you in terms of the virtual machine infrastructure,
in terms of whatever is required for running your application.
There is support for web applications that are based on dotnet Java, Node.js, PHP, and Python here.
Even the patching of the framework and the OS is managed by the service itself.
You also get additional features such as high availability.
So if you have a web application that fits the frameworks that are available and you don't want to manage
the underlying infrastructure, then you can opt to using the Azure Web App Service.
If you need to host a custom application, one that does not fit this framework, and maybe you need
complete control over the underlying virtual machine infrastructure, so you need admin rights over
the compute machine.
Then in that case, you can make use of virtual machines itself.
But if you want to manage platform for your web applications, we can make use of Azure Web apps.
So let's move on to the next chapter when we can look at using Azure Web Apps itself.

--- Lab - Deploying an Azure Web App ---

So you have it in Azure in all resources.
Let's go ahead and create a resource based on the service of the Azure Web app.
I'll click on Create your.
I can search for the web app service in the marketplace right under web app.
I can choose to create a resource based on this particular service.
I'll put as part of an existing resource group that I have.
We can give a name.
We need to give a unique name for the web app instance.
This will be, you know, you'll get kind of a domain name for your web application.
It gets, you know, the name of the web app gets appended with dot azurewebsites.
Net but it's saying that this particular you know name is not available.
It needs to be unique.
First of all, let me go ahead and just change my location to my default location, which I normally
use in my demos to North Europe.
But again, this will not be available if you want to make this unique in nature.
What I normally do is I try to append some numbers onto the name, just to make it unique in nature.
Now we have two options.
We have the code and the container, so we'll focus on the code.
When we choose code we have a variety of options in place.
So we have support for dotnet.
We have support for Java Node.js so on and so forth.
So let me choose dotnet eight for now.
We can also choose the underlying OS whether it be Linux, whether it be windows.
So in North Europe.
And then we have something known as a pricing plan.
You know we have something known as an app service plan currently in the App Service plan.
So we have different plans in place.
For us it's choosing the free one free F1 and that's good for us.
Now let me kind of go through what are we doing here.
So I said we want to host a web application.
If you want to host a web application on a virtual machine.
So let's say we want to host a web application based on dotnet.
So we have actually asp dotnet as the underlying framework for a web application.
So let's say we need to host it on a virtual machine.
Now we could have a windows machine in place.
So we can say Windows Server.
And then in order to host our web application we will need to install ASP.Net on the machine.
Install the web server.
Right.
We have internet information services and then we can host our application.
For us this is a managed service wherein there'll be a machine in the background that will be based
on windows.
It will have internet information services already installed, and it will have support for running
dotnet eight based applications.
So all we're doing here is we are giving that configuration details to the web app, saying that when
you create this environment for us, for hosting our web application, make sure that based on these
details, everything is ready.
Everything is in place.
We can just publish then our code onto the service itself.
Now next is this kind of concept of the App Service plan.
So when we do deploy, you know a resource here based on this wizard, this will deploy two resources.
One is the web app itself and another is the app service plan.
Now the app service plan actually dictates what features will be made available to you in terms of an
application environment and also in terms of pricing.
So here in terms of the pricing plan, you can see we have the free pricing plan in place.
What this gives us is it only gives us 60 minutes of compute per day.
So for a demo it's fine.
But if we need to run a full blown web application, we can't use this because it will only run for
60 minutes a day.
If we want to have a proper environment in place, we probably need to choose the basic app service
plan that will give us a proper machine, which we can run 24 by seven for our web applications.
What is it?
For us?
It's fine.
The free plan is more than sufficient enough for now for our demo.
A scroll on.
I'll go next.
Do you need any databases?
Deployment.
It's fine.
Go on networking.
Fine.
Motor and secure.
So everything is fine.
I'll go on to review and create.
And let's create our a web app, so it's based on the free SKU in terms of the App Service plan.
I'll click on create, and let's wait for a few minutes till we have our deployment in place.
Now once the deployment is complete, I can go on to resource and I'll be taken on to my Azure Web app
in another tab.
If I go onto all resources just to confirm on the resources that get deployed.
So I told you there'll be one web app, and you'll also have the app service plan for the web app.
It gets kind of a default domain name.
Let me copy this on the clipboard and put it in a new tab.
So it's quite a long domain name.
And now you are directed onto the default web page that's running as part of a default web application
on the Azure Web app itself.
So what you have now is a managed platform in which you can start publishing your web applications.

--- An example of deploying code onto the Azure Web App ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through kind of a quick demo on how we can have a web application,
you know, publish onto our Azure Web app.
What we've done is we have deployed a resource based on the web app service, and we have kind of a
default web app running from an exam perspective.
That's fine.
But just to give you all an understanding of what it means to have kind of this web app service in place,
to have this platform as a service in place for hosting your web applications.
I want to go through an exercise in which we can basically publish a dotnet based application onto the
Azure Web app.
Again, not required for you all to go ahead and try this out.
If you want, you can just go to this particular video.
But what is important is you can actually download Visual Studio Code.
I'm going to do this right now.
This is a freely available code editor and at times we will make use of VS code.
I said you can always go ahead and download this code editor for free.
We're going to just have a default kind of dotnet web application in place.
And then we can publish that onto Azure onto our Azure Web app.
Here I am on the page when it comes on to Visual Studio Code.
So first step is I'm going to download VS code.
It's available for a variety of platforms.
We have it on windows.
We have it on Linux.
We have it on Mac OS.
I'll choose windows, choose the system installer x64.
It should start the download process.
So let me download the installer.
And it's a very simple and straightforward installation.
So step number one is to download and set up VSCode.
I'm starting the installer to install Visual Studio Code.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
Just click on next click on install.
So one thing is Visual Studio Code.
While this is being done, the next thing I will do is to download DotNet on my local machine.
I'm going to choose dotnet eight, download the dotnet SDK x64 on my machine.
And save it onto the downloads folder.
So once we have VSCode in place then I'll go ahead and download.
Install dotnet.
I'll launch VSCode later on.
Let's wait for dotnet to download and then I'll install dotnet eight first on my local machine.
I said I want to have a dotnet based application place, a very simple one based on the inbuilt templates.
I then want to publish this application onto our Azure Web app.
Once the download is complete for the dotnet SDK, let me start the installation process.
Again, very simple.
I just need to click on install and it will carry out the installation of dotnet.
Again let's wait till this is complete.
So there's quite a list of steps.
But I said in the end I want you to get a fair idea on how can we publish or have a web application
running as part of our Azure Web app?
Once done now, I'll open up Visual Studio Code on my local machine in VS code.
I'm going to go on to extensions.
I'm going to install extensions that will extend the functionality of VS code.
First is I want to install the C sharp dev kit.
I'll click on install.
The C dev kit will allow us to easily build dotnet based applications within VSCode.
Now once I have the C-sharp dev kit in place, I'm going to search for the Azure extension that allows
us to kind of work with Azure here.
I want to actually install the Azure App service.
Let me click on install.
So this is done.
I'll now open up an empty folder on my local machine.
So I've opened up a dev folder on my local machine.
I have nothing in this particular folder.
I'm going to now run a command.
So I'll say show and run commands in terms of.
Net I want to create a new project.
This will go through a kind of a quick wizard in VS code itself for creating a very simple application.
I want to create a very simple ASP dotnet based application.
Let me choose the one for ASP dotnet core web app razor pages.
I can give a local name for the web application here on enter in my default directory here on enter.
I want to create a new project.
And then it will add kind of dotnet based files in place for the web application itself.
I can go on to the solution explorer.
For the web application I can right click choose debug and start a new instance.
If you want to see how this application looks like, you can run this application locally.
You know, using VSCode, they should then build the entire code base and run it within a browser.
So it's a very simple web application.
It's running locally.
Let me stop the running of the web application.
Let me now go on to the Azure extension.
Let me sign in onto my Azure account.
So it's saying that it wants to sign in onto.
So here we can sign in using our Azure account.
So I'll use my main admin account.
Click on next.
It's asking me to send a code.
So under the code that got sent onto my email address.
Is basically logging in onto our Azure account.
Now, once done within VS code itself, I can see my Azure subscription.
I can see all of my kind of service categories here, and I can see my Azure Web app.
I can right click on my Azure Web app and choose to deploy to the web app.
So what this will do is it'll take my code from Visual Studio Code, right?
Which is in C dev.
Seeing some required configuration is required I'll say add the config.
I'm just using everything within VS code to deploy my web application.
So it's saying are you sure you want to deploy onto the web app that you have on the Azure platform?
I'll say yes.
No problem.
Go ahead and deploy.
I just want to showcase that, you know, once you have a managed platform in place, you can start
deploying your web applications here.
I'm just showcasing kind of an example on how we can use VS code for serverless app, a simple dotnet
project in place.
Yes, there was some setup to be done, but in the end we have a dotnet project and now it has deployed
this kind of project onto our Azure Web application.
What I can do now is I can take I go on to the overview for my web app, copy the link on the clipboard,
the default domain name, and hit on enter.
Now I can see my web application.
I no longer see the default page for the default web app.
Now I can now see my web application right in this kind of chapter, I want to go through a demo on
how you can have your own application published onto an Azure Web app.
Now that we are done, I'm going to go ahead and delete my resources.

--- Quick note on Azure Web App scaling ---

Now in this chapter, I just want to give this quick note when it comes on to, you know, features
that are available as part of your web app.
You know, early on we had deployed a web app.
This was based on the free app service plan, you know, for your web applications.
If I go on to, let's say if I go on to settings, we can perform a scale out.
Now what exactly is this scale out?
Similar to the concept we had seen when it comes on to virtual machine scale sets.
You know, we have the ability to also scale out the number of machines that can be used for, you know,
managing our web applications.
See, the App Service plan is providing the compute infrastructure for running our web apps.
Well, if we have, you know, we can have multiple Azure Web apps running on these same app service
plan.
What we can do is when we have more web applications, more load that's running as part of the web apps
itself, we can basically scale out our app service plan in terms of the number of machines, the amount
of compute that will support our web applications itself.
Kind of similar on the virtual machine scale set.
So we can go ahead and, you know, perform a manual increase of the number of machines running in the
background that's maintaining our web applications.
We can again create rules similar to what we had seen in virtual machine scale sets.
Now currently everything is grayed out.
It's not giving us the ability to perform any sort of scaling operations.
And that's because we are part of the free App Service plan.
In order to start that process of being able to use these features, we would need to upgrade onto a
higher app service plan.
So when you go on to scale up, you can actually scale up your app service plan.
So currently we're using the free one.
We could go on to, let's say the basic one that gives us kind of dedicated machines for hosting our
web applications.
Again, from the perspective of the exam, we don't need to go into details on these concepts.
We just want to let you know that this is possible.
You know, we get features now as part of our entire web application infrastructure.

--- About Azure Functions ---

And welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give an introduction when it comes on to Azure Functions.
Now let's say that you have a web application.
This web application could be hosted on a virtual machine.
The web application could be hosted on an Azure web app.
The web application could be making external calls onto other modules.
So you could be having a central repository of code, you know, central repository of services.
And each service is having its own functionality.
So it's not part of the web application.
As such, you might be having many web applications that are calling these centralized or need to call
these centralized set of modules.
So each module is code code that needs to be run, code that performs certain functionality at a central
level.
Okay.
So in your organization you might be having central services that provide common functionality right
to many applications.
Let's say that these modules only run on demand, right?
You just invoke the code and it sends you a response back.
What you can do is you can host all the modules, the code on a virtual machine.
But, you know, if you're hosting the code on a virtual machine, remember that this code doesn't need
to run.
I'm talking about this code, right?
The module code.
It doesn't need to run 24 by seven.
Yes, your web application needs to be running all the time, but these modules only need to run when
they are invoked, right?
So the web application might invoke, let's say one module that will go to an inventory database, fetch
some information and give it back.
That's it.
It only runs for a short duration of time.
Now, if you need to run this code module on a machine, remember the machine then needs to be running
24 by seven.
But your modules are only running you know when they are invoked.
So sometimes it does not make sense to have an entire machine running 24 by seven.
You know, from a costing perspective just to host your modules.
What you can do is you can host your modules on a service known as Azure Functions.
Azure functions is a serverless service.
You again, you don't need to maintain the underlying environment.
You don't maintain the service.
The entire compute environment for running your code is given by the service itself.
All you need to do is to publish your function code onto Azure Functions.
Then your web applications can invoke the functions whenever they are required.
They'll get the output.
Give it back to the web application.
And the best thing is, when it comes down to pricing, you only get charged based on the running time
of the function itself.
So in this chapter, I want to give kind of a quick introduction onto Azure Functions.

--- Lab - Azure Functions ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through a very simple example on how we can deploy a resource based
on the Azure Function app.
Here in all resources.
I'll click on create.
Actually we have function app has the first Azure service.
But if you can't see it here, you can always search for function app in the marketplace in the Azure
Marketplace.
And then we have it here.
So I can say let's create a resource based on the service.
We'll again get a wizard in which we can decide on what are the configuration aspects for the function
app.
But before that I can see that I do have some other options in place.
These are something known as hosting options.
So we have flex consumption.
We have consumption.
We have functions premium.
We have app service and we have container apps environment.
If you choose flex consumption or consumption you pay based on how much you use.
If you already have an Azure Web app in place that is linked on to an app service, you can run your
Azure Functions as part of the same app service to save on costs.
If you want to have a container based environment in place, we can use Container Apps environment.
If you want better performance for your Azure Functions, you can choose Functions Premium.
For us, I'm going to choose consumption and click on Select You.
I'll choose my existing resource group.
I'll need to give a unique function app name.
This gets appended with dot Azurewebsites.
Net.
We can then decide okay what would be the underlying runtime stack.
So here in functions it will provide the compute environment for you.
At the same time, it will have the required runtime in place for running your code.
Here, as an example, I'm going to choose dotnet in dotnet.
In terms of the version, I'm going to choose dotnet eight in process model and I'll choose my region
has North Europe.
Now I'm choosing kind of an older version of dotnet in terms of the model, just because this is the
only way that we can actually create a function within the Azure portal itself, if we choose any other
version, we will need to create our function using an editor like Visual Studio Code.
So to keep this very, very simple, that's why I'm choosing, first of all, the function app based
on the consumption model.
This allows us to create a function app based on the in-process model of dotnet eight.
I'm not sure for how long this is going to be in place, but I just want to showcase how we can have
a function as part of a function app, and I'll showcase later on how do we create that function?
Go on to networking.
We can leave everything as it is or to monitoring.
Here it's creating a new resource known as Application Insights.
This is used from a modeling perspective.
I'll leave it as it is.
Deployment.
Fine.
Let me just go on to review and create and create a function app.
Let's wait till we have the app in place.
Now once the deployment of my function app is complete, let me go on to the resource itself.
So we'll be directed on to the function app.
Now within this function app we should be able to deploy multiple functions.
Here we have the ability to create a function in the Azure portal itself.
But normally when you develop a function you'll be using editor such as Visual Studio Code.
Let me choose to create a function within the Azure portal itself.
We then have different templates.
These are different inbuilt templates on how the function will receive your requests and how it can
run basically.
I'm going to select the normal HTTP trigger.
The first one.
Click on next.
I'll leave the function name as it is.
You can always change it and click on create.
So we are now creating a function that will have code in place that can run on demand.
Now by default there will be some code here that's going to come up.
So there'll be some default template code as part of this kind of trigger.
And then you can go ahead and run the function.
So I said there's some default kind of code in place.
If I click on Test and Run from here itself I can choose the HTTP method has the get method in terms
of the query parameter.
So what this function does is it accepts a query parameter with the name of name itself, and I can
just give a value.
Click on run.
Where does is it gives us an output and also gives us the logs.
See, in the end, what we want is we want to have code in place that can be invoked at any point in
time.
So I said, what you can do is you can have multiple functions as part of the function app.
Each function can be coded in such a way that it performs certain functionality.
It can be invoked and then it can send a response or the caller program.
So the caller who's invoking the function can go ahead and receive the output accordingly.
I want to give this kind of quick demo when it comes on to Azure Functions.
Now that we are done.
I'll go ahead and delete whatever resources got created as part of the function app.

--- Primer on containers ---

Mind.
Welcome back.
Now, as part of the exam, we need to have some information when it comes on to using services for
hosting container based applications.
But before that, for the benefit of students, I want to kind of give a quick primer on what exactly
are these container based applications.
A long time ago, when it came on to deploying applications, we had the option of deploying applications
on physical servers.
Then came the advent of virtual machines, where in on the physical server we could install a virtualization
tool.
And then using that virtualization tool, we could host multiple virtual machines, install applications
on these machines.
The virtual machines were designed to make the most out of the hardware specifications of the underlying
physical server.
Well, we could have multiple virtual machines hosted on the same physical server.
But then there were still some problems when it came to deploying applications.
See, to make the most out of each virtual machine, companies would deploy multiple applications on
the same machine.
Let's say that one application required an update at the OS level, the Virtual Machine OS level.
This update could potentially break the other applications running on the same virtual machine.
So this was one common issue.
Another common issue was when applications were being copied from one environment onto another.
So let's say you are an application running in a dev environment.
And for the simplest sake, let's say that we want to transfer that application onto a production based
environment.
The application might be running perfectly on dev, but it would not work on production.
And this could be to the configuration differences at, let's say, the virtual machine level.
In order to kind of alleviate these problems when it came onto configuration differences in the underlying
environment, applications being broken by adding updates, changes, etc., we now have this extra
layer in between that's known as the container engine.
So now you would use let's say a tool set.
A popular tool set is known as Docker.
You can use Docker to kind of containerize your application.
So you would package your application whatever libraries are required by the application itself within
a container.
You then run that container on a virtual machine that has the container runtime installed.
So in this case let's say Docker.
Now here the benefit is each container would only run a single application.
Mostly right.
And it would only contain the libraries that are required to run that application.
That's it.
So each container is kind of running in isolation.
So if you had another application in another container, if that application required changes, you
know, new libraries, new updates, it could only be applied to that container itself and it would
not impact the application running in another container.
So this sort of container based technology was used or is being used to, you know, kind of build these
container based applications.
Once you do build your container based application, in the end we have to run the application itself,
the container based application.
In the next chapter, I want to showcase a very simple example on using a container based service that's
available on the Azure platform.

--- Lab - Azure Container Instance ---

Here I am in my Azure account.
I want to showcase a very simple example on using a container based service.
Obviously, there is a lot that goes into building container based applications and deploying them.
I suggest you go for a dedicated course which focuses on containers, which focuses on using Docker
as a toolset that focuses on using Kubernetes as orchestration tool.
If you're looking at Azure, if you're looking at a certification, then I suggest you go for the AZ
204 based courses.
There you will also learn about using Azure based services when it comes to hosting container based
applications.
But here we want to keep things very, very simple.
In all resources I will click on create.
There are many container based services on offer, but I'm going to use the most easiest one.
And that's known as the container instance service.
So I'll search for container instance.
I'll choose to create a resource based on the service.
And we again get a wizard in which we can create a resource based on the container instance service.
Choose an existing resource group that I have.
I can give a name for the instance in North Europe in terms of the image source.
I'll use the quickstart images.
So what exactly is happening here?
Now in order to kind of host a container based application, first and foremost you need to build your
application.
Next, you need to use Docker as an example, as a toolset for creating something known as an image
out of your application.
Then you host the image in a registry.
You can host the image in, let's say an Azure Container Registry, or host the image in, let's say
Docker Hub.
And then you can run a container out of that image on some sort of compute infrastructure.
So in the end you are running an application.
You need compute machines for running the application, but you're running your application within a
container with the container instance service.
It is providing you the compute infrastructure in the background for running.
Your application has a container.
It has the required container based engine also in place for running the containers.
So you don't have to worry about anything.
Just tell the container instance service where is your container based image?
For us, we are just learning the basics about using Azure based services.
Hence, there is a quickstart image that will just run a Hello World application in a container.
So I'll leave it as it is.
We have the size.
I'll go on networking, leave it as it is monitoring.
What I'll do is I won't enable insights.
A very simple demo, right?
Advanced.
Leave it as it is.
I'll go into review and create and create my container instance.
I'll click on create and let's come back once you have the container instance in place.
Now, once the deployment is complete, I can go on to the resources.
This will only create one resource that is known as the Container Instance service.
Now as part of the container instance service it will give us a public IP address.
I can copy this on the clipboard.
Go on to a new tab, put in the public IP address.
What we're doing is we are sending a request on to kind of a hello world application that is running
within a container.
That container is running on the Azure container instance.
The container instance service is just making everything very simple for you.
You are able to run your container based applications.
I understand that probably from a beginner perspective, you can't understand completely what's happening
in the background.
I said if you want to learn more about deploying container based applications, I suggest you go for
a course that is dedicated towards, you know, developing and deploying containers.
I said from an exam perspective, it is important to understand that we do have container based services
on the Azure platform.

--- Azure Virtual Desktop ---

Now, in this chapter I briefly want to go through Azure Virtual Desktop.
This is a desktop and application virtualization service that runs on Azure.
Here you can offer virtual desktops to users.
These desktop machines can run Windows 11, Windows 10, or Windows Server.
You can offer this on to either a single user or use a Multi-session capabilities.
Now here I am in one of my other Azure accounts.
I quickly want to showcase an example on how we can actually deploy Virtual desktop.
So I'm going to go on to Azure Virtual Desktops.
Go on to quick start and say that I want to get started quickly with Azure Virtual Desktop.
I'll click on create.
This is giving me a wizard in which I can create that entire environment when it comes on to Azure Virtual
Desktop.
Now, you all don't need to go through the entire process of creating virtual desktop.
I just want to go through the process because I want to showcase how it looks like in the end.
Just to give you all an idea on what this service can do.
So I'll leave the location as it is.
We can give a local admin account.
So what this desktop quickstart will do is it will provision a Windows 11 machine and users can actually
remote desktop onto this virtual infrastructure.
So I'm just giving a username and a password.
We also need to select users.
So within my account I do have some users in place.
I'll select an existing user that I have.
apps.
That's why I'm saying that, you know, there are some steps that we need to carry out.
I do want to go to the entire process of working with virtual desktop.
You know, from a beginner perspective, it'll be too much.
I said, I just want you all to get an idea on what we're trying to achieve in the end.
So I'm just choosing a user that I have defined in Microsoft Entra ID, by the way, we'll be going
through Microsoft ID later on.
I'll go on review and create and create this entire virtual desktop environment.
And this will take time.
This might take.
Let me just click on create.
This could take between ten minutes to about half an hour.
Let's wait till the deployment is complete and then come back.
Now I've come back.
After some time, the deployment is complete.
The next step is we can use the windows app to connect onto the desktop.
You can also go actually onto the web browser.
So I'm on the documentation page which goes through the quick start of deploying Azure Virtual Desktop.
Let me click on this particular link.
So I'm going on to connecting.
Here I will log in as I'll just go on to Microsoft Android.
Go on to my users.
I will log in as the user that I use as part of Virtual desktop.
I'm going to log in as a user that I signed on to my virtual desktop infrastructure.
Just click click on Skip.
I have one virtual desktop in place I can connect remotely.
Now on to this machine.
I can click on connect.
And we now have a session that has been established onto a Windows 11 machine.
So now we have a virtual desktop in place.
So in this chapter I just want to kind of briefly go through this kind of Azure Virtual Desktop service.
It's kind of difficult to go through all the aspects when it comes onto the service itself.
I want to give you an overall idea.
If you want to have a virtual desktop assign onto your user.
So what I've done is in the quickstart, I assign the virtual desktop onto a user app defined in Microsoft
Enter ID, I can now log in as user, and now I have a Windows 11 kind of device in place at my disposal,
but this is a virtual desktop.
Once done, what I'll do is I'll kind of close the session.
Go on to all resources within my Azure account.
So you can see there's a whole list of resources in place.
I'll delete my resources accordingly.

--- Quick Revision ---

Now I just want to have a quick revision.
You know, we won't be able to have a revision of all the aspects that we have learned, but I want
to touch upon some important topics, some important aspects when it comes to Azure compute.
So we've seen how we could use the Azure platform to actually spin up resources based on services.
So a ton of benefits when it comes to using Azure.
First of all, when it comes on to virtual machines, we have seen that in order to build a virtual
machine, we don't need to buy or deploy any sort of physical servers.
This helps us to save on the initial set of costs in an on prem setup.
If you were to extend your architecture, you would need to buy more servers and more storage.
But with Azure, it's very easy to go ahead and extend your architecture.
You can, you know, with the virtual machine, we could see how easy we could go in and resize the
machine on demand.
That's giving us the extra level of flexibility.
We looked at different compute services.
We looked at the Azure Virtual machines here.
The underlying physical infrastructure is managed for you.
You can create and delete machines whenever required.
We looked at Azure Web Apps.
This provides a managed service for your web applications.
You can deploy and scale your web apps accordingly.
We looked at Azure Functions.
This is a serverless service.
You can just deploy your code and run it on demand.
You will only charge based on the usage.
And then we have Azure Container instances.
This service allows you to host your container based applications.
It manages again the underlying infrastructure for you.
We looked at virtual machine scale sets.
This allows you deploy an identical set of machines to host your application.
Here you can define rules that can increase the number of machines in the scale set in automatic fashion.
You can also define rules that can decrease the number of machines in the scale skill set as well.
Very important.
You should be able to scale out your architecture and scale in your architecture at any point in time.
So when there's a heavy load, you should be able to increase the number of machines as part of your
system.
And when the load decreases, you again decrease the number of machines.
Then we also had kind of a brief look at the different ways in which we can provide high availability
to our architecture of machines when we're deploying an application on multiple VMs.
If we want to protect, for example, against data center level failures, we can deploy the machines
onto multiple availability zones.
Most of the regions do have support for available zones.
You will need to check the Microsoft documentation.
So it's not that all regions.
Yes, most of them do contain availability zones.
But again, you need to confirm this by going onto the Microsoft documentation.
You can deploy machines that could be based on either Windows or Linux onto availability zones.
Then we had kind of a very brief look on Azure Virtual Desktop.
You can use virtual desktop to give access to your users, you know, to machines.
There is support for Windows 10.
There's support for Windows 11.
There's support for Windows Server.
Azure Virtual Desktop has support for both desktop and application virtualization.
Now, in addition to just going through some important notes, let's go through some quick Q and A's
as well.
Let's say that a team needs to make use of a serverless compute service on Azure.
Which of the following can be used for the requirement?
Would you use Azure VMs.
Would you use Azure Virtual Machine scale set or Azure Functions?
Well here the serverless compute service is Azure Functions.
Now next you set up a workload on a set of machines.
You take advantage of the unused capacity that Azure has to offer so that you can save on costs on compute
for the machines itself.
Which of the following you know from a cosmic perspective will you make use for this requirement?
Would you make use of Azure Spot virtual machines?
Would you use the on demand pricing that's available for machines, or would you use Azure Reserve pricing?
Well, if you want to take advantage of the unused capacity Azure has to offer when it comes on to compute,
you will make use of Azure Spot virtual machines.
Now let's say that you deploy an application on a set of Azure VMs.
You have to ensure that the application is made available.
Even if a data center goes down within a particular region.
Which of the following would you implement for this particular requirement?
Would you deploy the machines as part of an availability set?
Would you deploy the machines as part of a scale set, or would you deploy the machines as part of many
availability zones?
Well, if you want to protect against data center level failures, you have to deploy the machines as
part of availability zones.
Now, which of the following can be used to run application code without the need of having a server
in place for hosting the code itself?
Would you make use of Azure VMs?
Make use of Azure Functions or make use of Azure Virtual Machine scale sets?
Well, here we have to go for the serverless service, which is Azure functions that can be used for
hosting code without the need of having a server in place.
Now let's say you want to deploy a container based application, which is.
The following is a managed service that can be used for this requirement would use the Azure Container
instance service.
Use Azure Functions or use the Azure Container Registry.
When we looked at a very simple use case example of this, and this is the Azure container instance.
Now you are planning on getting reservation pricing when it comes onto the Azure Virtual Machine Service.
Which of the following are valid durations when it comes on to reservations for Azure pricing?
Is it one year, two years, or three years?
Well, we can book Azure reservations for either a one year commitment or a three year commitment.
And then finally, let's say that you have a virtual machine which is in the following state.
So actually it is in the stop Deallocated state.
What will you be charged for when it comes onto this entire virtual machine setup?
Will you be charged for the compute the disk or the virtual network?
Well, since the machine is in the stop Deallocated state, you will not be charged for the compute.
The virtual network is by default free of cost.
So the only thing that will be charged now is for the disk assign onto the virtual machine.
So in the chapter one I have kind of a quick revision of the concepts that we've learned in this particular
section.

--- Azure Virtual Network ---

Now in this section we're going to be focusing on the networking part when it comes onto Azure.
So we'll be covering important points from an exam perspective when it comes to networking.
First and foremost I want to give kind of an introduction onto Azure virtual networks.
So when we deploy virtual machines in an earlier section, I told you that the virtual machines have
to be deployed onto something known as a virtual network.
The virtual network is nothing but an isolated network on the cloud.
It's similar to the networks that are set up in on premises data centers.
Once you have a network in place, you can actually start deploying resources.
So it's not only VMs that you can actually deploy onto virtual networks.
You can deploy other sort of compute based resources as well.
But currently we are only focusing on virtual machines within a virtual network.
Now we've already seen why the use of a wizard.
So when we deploy the virtual machine, it would automatically deploy the virtual network first and
then deploy the VM.
But what we'll do now is let's initially create a virtual network ourselves, because the virtual network
is another type of service.
So we can create a resource based on the virtual network service.
And then in that virtual network we can go ahead and deploy a VM.
When we do create a virtual network, we have to give obviously a name for the network itself.
And at the same time we give something known as an IP address space.
So here has an example.
The IP address space that we are going to give is 10.0.0.0 slash 16 from a networking perspective,
right.
If you want to understand more about IP addressing, how do we assign these IP addresses onto a To network.
I suggest again you go for maybe the Azure admin level course or the Azure networking course.
Here we're just looking at the basics, wherein we'll deploy a virtual network and then deploy a VM
within the network itself.
Once you have the IP address space assigned onto a virtual network, then the VMs within the network
get an IP address.
You know the IP address is taken from the IP address space.
Then within the virtual network we can define subnets.
So subnets gives us the ability to segment the virtual network into subnetworks.
Each subnet also gets its own IP address range.
And this IP address range is actually a subset of the IP address range of the virtual network.
So initially what we'll do is we'll deploy a virtual network.
And then we can deploy a VM onto the network itself.
So let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Creating the virtual network and virtual machine ---

So here within Azure currently I don't have any resources in place.
I'm in the AWS resources tab.
The view basically let me go ahead and create a new resource.
And this time we'll create a resource based on the virtual network service.
Within the marketplace.
We can search for services.
So I'll search for the virtual network service.
And then I said we can create a resource based on the service.
So I'm going on to Virtual network I'll click on create.
This will then give us again a wizard in which we can configure the different aspects about the network
itself.
So as always we have our resource group.
I need to give a network name.
This network is going to be in my location, my region of North Europe.
I will click on next.
We can leave the aspects as they are.
Again these are features of the network.
Click on next.
Here is where we assign the IP address range for the virtual network.
Currently it's assigning an IP address range for the network has 10.0.0.0 slash 16.
So that's fine.
And then within the virtual network it's actually creating a subnet with the name of default.
And the IP address range is 10.0.0.0 slash 24.
If you want you can click on edit and you can change the details about the subnet.
If, for example, we can change the subnet name, click on save.
Click on next, go on review and create.
And then we can create the virtual network a very simple process.
And then once you have the network in place you can go ahead and deploy VMs onto the network.
So let's wait.
Let's come back once we have the virtual network in place.
So within less than a minute, we have now the virtual network in place.
We can go on to the resource, and we should be able to see the details of the network itself.
So we can see that the network does contain an address space.
It is within our resource group in the North Europe location.
If I go ahead and just open the link of, I'm right clicking on all resources.
Just want to have a handle or a grip on the resources that get created along the way.
We only have again our virtual network and that network watcher resource.
Now we can deploy a VM within the virtual network.
So I can go on to virtual machines.
Let me choose to create a new Azure VM.
We've already seen this earlier on, but this time around alone.
We only have our virtual network in place, so now we want to deploy a VM onto that existing virtual
network.
I'll choose my resource group, give a name for my virtual machine.
We are launching the VM in North Europe because our virtual network is in the same region.
So we have to ensure that if we want our machine to be in that virtual network, we have to make sure
that we choose the region for the VM.
The same region has our virtual network itself.
I don't want any infrastructure redundancy.
I'll leave the image as ubuntu server.
That's good enough.
Leave the size as it is.
Specify the details about the machine.
Click on next for the disks.
Now in the networking part.
So earlier on what used to happen is it used to go ahead and create a new virtual network for us.
But now the wizard has found out or detected that there is already a virtual network in the North Europe
location, and there's already a subnet within the virtual network itself.
So it's saying, do you want to create now the VM in that existing virtual network?
That's good by us.
The only thing it's doing is it's creating a new public IP address.
Leave everything as it is.
Let me go on to review and create and let's create the virtual machine.
In the final screen I can click on create.
And now it should deploy the VM within our virtual network.
What we'll do is let's mark an end onto this chapter.
We've gone through the process of actually just creating the virtual network first, and then deploying
a VM onto the network.

--- Communication across virtual machines in a virtual network - Overview ---

I've come back.
The deployment of the machine is complete.
If I go on to my web VM zero one machine that's based on Ubuntu Linux, I can see that it is located
within my virtual network and within my subnet.
In this chapter now I want to go through a little bit on communication between VMs within a virtual
network.
But just before that.
When you look at the VM, right, it's launched in our virtual network, the virtual network.
If I just go ahead and click on refresh in all resources in the other tab, so we can see a number of
resources in place.
We already know that this is how it works when it comes on to building VMs.
We know that the virtual machine gets a network interface.
If I go on to the networking section, if I go onto the network settings.
You know, even your laptop, your desktop devices, it contains a network interface card, a physical
network interface card, Discard all of the traffic, all of the requests that are flowing out of your
machine and coming in right when you're browsing the internet, all the requests that are going out,
all the information coming back in.
It actually flows via the network interface.
So similarly for VMs on Azure, they have kind of a virtual network interface card.
And this you know, is it's created as a separate resource.
And then we have the public IP address that's attached onto this network interface.
But at the same time.
So we can see that the network interface, you know, gets that public IP address.
Your the IP address is 52 .236.127.209.
But at the same time there is something known as a private IP address.
This private IP address is 10.0.0.4.
So this IP address is actually plucked out from the IP address range of the subnet.
So the IP address range of the subnet is a subset of the IP address range of the virtual network.
And then, you know, there is an IP address, I said.
Blocked out of the subnet address range and given to the network interface card.
Now what is the purpose of the private IP address.
So we know that for the public IP address.
It allows resources from the internet to communicate with the VM.
But what about the private IP address.
What's the purpose of the private IP address.
So the private IP address actually allows for internal communication within a virtual network.
So what's the purpose of an IP address.
The IP address allows, you know, even for your mobile devices at home.
When you're communicating with the internet, even your mobile devices actually get an IP address.
The IP address is actually coming in from your home Wi-Fi router.
It helps to the IP address helps to uniquely identify the device on the network, hence here the private
IP address helps to identify the VM within the virtual network for private communication.
The public IP addresses allows requests from the internet to actually reach the virtual machine.
You know, from a networking perspective, from an admin perspective, later on this becomes very,
very important.
So we do understand that resources can communicate with each other within a virtual network, and resources
can communicate from the internet onto resources within the network itself.
Private communication is very important because you don't want traffic.
You know, it's not necessary that all traffic is coming from the internet, or all traffic needs to
go onto the internet.
There are devices that can communicate with each other within the virtual network itself.
So in this chapter, I want to go through kind of an example on how we can look at communication Between
devices in a virtual network.
What we'll do is, first of all, we'll install the nginx web server, which we've already seen earlier
on how to do that.
We'll install this on web VM zero one.
Then we'll launch a new machine, VM zero one.
This will again be based on Ubuntu Linux.
We'll create this within our virtual network.
Now please note that you can create another subnet within your virtual network and deploy the machine
there as well.
And communication will still be possible between the machines.
We can also actually create a completely separate network and deploy the machine there.
But they're by default.
Communication will not be possible between the machines.
We'll go through a little bit later on.
But here what we're trying to do is we are trying to understand, okay, is communication possible between
machines in a virtual network.
So let's move on to the next chapter and establish, you know, go through a lab on the communication
between machines in the network itself.

--- Lab - Communication across virtual machines in a virtual network ---

What we'll do first is let me go on to virtual machines.
Let's deploy a new machine.
We'll deploy this machine onto the same subnet and the same virtual network.
So onto my resource group.
Give a name for the machine in North Europe.
No infrastructure redundancy required.
Again based on Ubuntu Server we can leave the size as it is.
I'll mention a username and a password as always for the machine.
Go on next for the disk.
Leave it as it is networking making sure it's in the same virtual network in the same subnet.
It'll get its own public IP address.
Go on to View and Create and let's create the VM.
Now by deploying the VM on VM zero one, let me copy the public IP address.
Open up command prompt.
Let's install nginx.
Let me first connect onto the machine.
We've already seen this earlier on I want to install the nginx web server on this machine.
So first is to update the package index.
Then we can install the nginx web server.
And we should be having the web server running.
Going on to the other tab I can see I have my deployment complete.
So this is APM zero one another machine based on Ubuntu Linux.
If I go on to the network settings for the machine here again I can see that it gets its own public
IP address.
You will see that it has also got its own private IP address.
So the IP address of the private IP address of web VM zero one was ten .0.0.4.
And here the private IP address of VM zero one is ten .0.0.5.
Again, this has been plucked out out of the IP range of the subnet.
That's subnet A.
Now what we'll do is let's connect via the public IP address onto app VM zero one.
So again I'll open up another command prompt session.
Let's do a Linux admin and create the public IP address of the app VM zero one machine.
So we can connect to multiple machines at a time from our client device.
So from my laptop I am trying to now connect onto app Vm01.
So we can see here that we are indeed connected onto app VM zero one.
In the other session we are connected onto web VM zero one.
Now we have installed the nginx web server on web VM zero one.
In the earlier section, what we were doing is we were taking the public IP address of VM zero one.
We are going on to a browser tab and sending an HTTP request from our client machine.
We were sending an HTTP request onto web m01, but this time what I want to do is I want to send a request
from app M01 onto web VM zero one.
I want to send again a normal HTTP request, but this time in the request I will make use of the private
IP address that is assigned onto the network interface of web VM zero one.
I will issue a request of.
So I just quickly go on to the session of app VM zero one.
So what I'll do is on app VM zero one, I'll use the curl command to send.
Now an HTTP request.
I'm going to put in what is the private IP address of the web VM zero one machine I'll hit on enter.
What I'm getting back is the output of that home page.
So since this is a command line interface, I mean, I can't see the home page, but the web server
running on web VM zero one is sending me the HTML output of the page itself.
That means the app VM zero one machine is able to communicate with the web VM zero one machine within
the virtual network itself.
And in the end, this is private communication because what's happening is within the virtual network
itself.
Within this isolated network app, Vm01 is able to privately communicate with VM zero one using the
private IP addresses assigned on the network interfaces.
The public IP addresses are used when you want to establish communication with resources on the internet,
but private communication we can use the private IP addresses.
Right.
So in this chapter we want to kind of go through the communication that's possible with resources within
a virtual network.

--- Network Security Groups ---

Welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to give an introduction onto network security groups.
We have worked a little bit with Nsgs network security groups in the earlier section when we were trying
to give, you know, allow connections onto the web servers running on virtual machines in order to
ensure that requests from our laptop can reach the web servers, we would add an inbound rule onto the
network security group.
Well, let's go into a little bit more detail.
Just what's important from an exam perspective when it comes onto network security groups itself.
So this particular feature is used to filter.
It's like a lightweight firewall.
It filters the traffic between Azure resources in a virtual network.
The network security group actually consists of rules that are used to allow or deny I inbound and outbound
traffic.
You know, I said security is very, very important when it comes on to using services on a cloud platform
on VMs.
Normally, organizations and companies will be hosting softwares, applications.
They want to make sure that they control the connections.
They don't want everybody or all devices to have the ability to connect, because it will be a security
risk.
They don't want to expose, you know, they want to limit the exposure of what clients can actually
probably connect onto the applications running on these machines.
Hence, we can use these network security groups to limit the inbound connections, right?
The inbound traffic and also limit to an extent the outbound connections.
So if there is an outbound connection being made by an application running on a VM, we want to limit
that as well.
When defining rules within an NSG, a network security group, we can define the following.
We can give a name for the rule.
We can give a priority.
So you can have multiple rules within an NSG.
The way that the rules are evaluated are in order of priority.
So you have different priority for the rules.
We can mention a source or a destination.
This can be an IP address, something known as a Cidr block, a service tag, or an application security
group.
We then mention the protocol could be TCP, UDP, ICMP, etc..
What is the port range and what is the action?
Whether it's allow or deny?
It's quite simple in terms of the concept.
In the next chapter let's look at, you know, a little bit on how we can work with the rules in network
security groups.

--- An overview of Network Security Groups ---

Right now in this chapter, let's go through a few points when it comes on to Network Security Group.
So let's go on to our web VM zero one machine.
Right.
We have two machines in place.
We can go on either one.
Each machine by default gets its own network security group.
Now the network security group.
If I go on to a new tab go on to all resources.
So the network security group is a separate resource on its own.
When you go on to web VM zero one.
So we have its own NSG.
This is a separate resource.
We can go on to it and we can go on to settings.
We can define the inbound security rules and we can define the outbound security rules.
Currently this network security group is attached onto the web VM zero one machine, wherein it is attached
onto the network interface that is attached onto the web VM zero one machine itself and energy can be
attached onto either the network interface or onto subnets, so you can attach an NSG onto an entire
subnet.
So instead of maintaining multiple Nsgs for your various machines, you can just have one energy in
place and maintain the rules for your various machines using that one network security group itself.
This is possible.
Now we can define inbound secure rules that defines okay, what are the connections that are inbound
that are allowed.
So we can allow or define.
So we can allow or deny inbound connections onto the virtual machine via the use of inbound security
rules.
And we can allow or deny the outbound connections using outbound security rules.
Now by default when it comes on to an NSG, when it comes onto the inbound security rules, there are
three default rules in place.
So we have something known as an allow VNet inbound.
We have something known as an Allow Azure Load balancer.
And then we have something known as deny all inbound.
Now each particular rule has a name, has a port number a protocol, the source, the destination.
And if you scroll all the way down to the end, let me go ahead and just hide this actually.
So if you scroll on to the end we can see what is the action, whether it's an allow or deny action.
When you establish, you know sorry when a request goes from one device onto another.
So let's say our laptop is sending a request onto the virtual machine.
We want to connect using the Secure Shell protocol.
We want to log in let's say to the Linux based machine.
So our laptop will send a request using the protocol of SSH.
Right.
We're using secure shell.
Secure shell works on the port number of port 22.
Hence here there is a rule.
So this is now a user defined rule.
When we use the wizard Zod to create the Azure VM.
The wizard actually created a rule for us, wherein it added the rule to allow traffic on port 22 of
the machine.
This then allows clients to connect via this port number or onto this port number onto the machine itself.
Here the source is given as any.
That means any client can connect and the destination is any.
That means we can connect onto any destination.
We have the default rules in place as well.
So the first default rule allows communication across all devices within a virtual network.
The next rule actually allows traffic from an Azure load balancer, and the last one denies all other
sort of traffic.
So we can have these rules in place to allow or deny traffic.
Now just to showcase, you know, working with rules, there's a lot that you can do with Nsgs.
In the last chapter from app VM zero one, we were able to send a request using the curl command using
the private IP address.
Now this request is going through because of this default rule.
So we have this default rule in place that allows traffic across the virtual network.
Now when it comes on to the default rules, we can either delete them or we can change them.
But I can add another rule.
Let me add another inbound security rule wherein I put in the source as any in terms of the source,
we can provide either source coming in, you know, the connection coming in from anywhere, or we can
provide saying that, okay, if the connection comes from this particular source IP address, then the
rule should apply to this IP address.
Or we can use a service tag.
So there are different service tags in place.
We can say that if requests are coming in from the internet, then this rule should apply to those requests.
If requests are coming in from another Azure based service, this rule should apply to that particular
service.
So we have different sort of, you know, basically sources in place.
And then we have something known as an application security group.
Let me leave it as any in terms of the service.
What I'll do is I'll put star.
So I'll say that let's go ahead and make sure that this rule applies to all types of traffic.
You know, any protocol.
And in the action I'm going to put deny this basically is saying that we want to deny all traffic.
And then we have a priority.
So here it's giving a priority of 310.
Let me go ahead and click on add.
So now we're adding a security rule to deny all inbound traffic or to the machine.
So this rule is coming up second in the list.
Now since we have the first rule which is to allow traffic on SSH, we should still be able to connect
onto the machine.
So when we connect onto the machine the energy will first evaluate this rule.
This rule says that please allow traffic.
So in the end, whatever rule it encounters first, whichever rule matches the request that will be
considered and it will ignore the other rules.
Hence, we should be able to successfully connect to the machine.
We should be able to successfully connect onto web VM zero one.
But now what about sending a request again using the curl command?
See now it's not going to work.
APM zero one will not be able to, you know, get a response back by the HTTP request.
And that's simply because we have added a rule to deny all other sort of traffic.
So now this rule is taking effect where in it is blocking the traffic.
And then we should, you know, basically get an error message saying that the destination cannot be
reached.
You know, in this chapter, I just want to kind of give a flavor of what we can do with network security
groups.
In the end, you should understand that it can be used to kind of filter down on the inbound and outbound
requests.

--- Application Security Groups ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give kind of a quick note on something known as application security
groups.
Now, application security groups is nothing but an extension onto network security groups itself.
You know here what you can do is you can group virtual machines when it comes down to defining the required
security policies.
And what do I mean by this?
So in a company, let's say that they deploy multiple machines within a virtual network.
So let's say that they have the web layer of their application hosted on a set of web based machines.
Then they have the application layer set up on another set of machines.
So these are the application servers the web servers.
Normally you have different tiers for the application.
And then finally they might host the databases on a set of database servers.
So now you know when they have these machines in place they want to define rules in the network secure
group in such a way that they want to say that okay.
Requests from the internet can, first of all, flow onto the web servers, then incoming traffic onto
the application servers should only come in from the web server.
So the web servers should communicate with the application servers only.
And then the database servers should only accept requests from the application servers.
So they have this kind of flow when it comes on to this multi-tier application.
Now when you start having multiple servers in the network security group, you would have a lot of complications
because you would probably specify the individual IP address of each and every machine in the rules.
So when you go for further exams, further courses on understanding more of the networking aspect,
you'll understand that when you start having now multiple machines in the network, When you start defining
rules in the NSG, you can get a lot of rules in place and it can become a maintenance overhead in trying
to maintain so many rules, because you will have rules of just pinpointing each and every IP address
and making sure the communication is only possible between a set of machines.
To alleviate this, what you can do is you can define something known as application security groups.
You can define just one group of web servers.
And then you can kind of logically link this on to these web servers.
You can have another application security group and only link it onto the application servers.
So it's like you're just tagging those servers in one group.
You're saying, okay, we have web servers in another group, we have application servers, and in another
group we have database servers.
Then in the network security group itself, you can just simply have a rule saying that, okay, requests
from the internet can flow onto the application security group, which in turn means that requests can
go in onto the web servers.
Then we can have another rule saying that, okay, only traffic from the web server application security
group can flow into the application security group for the application servers.
That's it.
We can just have one rule between these two asgs.
That's it.
We don't have to have rules for each and every server, because in the end, when we allow the rules
between the asgs, it just means that internally, yes, the traffic is allowed between the servers
from the web layer and the application layer.
So it is meant to simplify the rules that you define in your network security groups.
So in this chapter I want to give this kind of quick note when it comes to application security groups.

--- Lab - Azure virtual network peering ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to go through virtual network peering in order to showcase virtual network
peering.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to launch another VM again based on, uh, actually what we'll do
is let's base this on windows.
This time I'm going to deploy this onto another virtual network.
So currently what we have is we have one virtual network in place within this network.
We have two machines already.
Right.
We have VM zero one on which we've installed nginx.
And we have VM zero one.
I want to deploy.
I set another VM onto another virtual network.
Now we do know that by default app VM zero one can communicate with VM zero one, but can test VM zero
one.
Communicate with web VM zero one.
So can test VM zero one.
Reach the web server running on the inner web VM BM zero one machine.
Well.
By default.
Not possible.
And the reason for this is I told you that every virtual network is isolated in nature.
In order to make sure that test VM zero one can reach web VM zero one, we can establish something known
as virtual network peering connection.
So with virtual network peering, the traffic between the virtual machines can cross across the virtual
networks.
The traffic actually travels across the Microsoft backbone network.
You can connect virtual networks in the same region or across regions.
So let's go through with a very simple demo when it comes on to working with virtual network peering.
Now what I'll do is, uh, let me go on to virtual machines.
Let's deploy a new VM And let's make sure that the new VM is in a new virtual network.
We'll place our new VM in the same resource group, give a name for the machine again in North Europe.
No infrastructure this time I said let's base this on Windows Server 2025 datacenter.
The only reason I'm doing this is just to showcase that we can have a blend of machines based on different
operating systems, and communication is possible across these machines.
You can do this with Ubuntu Server with Windows Server 2025.
Obviously I am going to go ahead and change the size.
I'll just click on see all sizes, make sure I choose a size which has two virtual CPUs and four gigs
of Ram.
Click on select specify the admin username and password.
For the machine.
Click on next for the disk.
Now in networking by default, it will go ahead and choose the existing virtual network that I already
have.
But I want to go ahead and create a new virtual network.
So I'll click on Create New here to create a new virtual network.
I'll give a name for the network.
I will accept the address range hazardous.
So it's giving me an address range of 10.1.0.0 slash 16.
That's fine.
We can just go on to my diagram just to see what I've given in terms of the subnet.
So we can give the same subnet name.
That is also fine.
So I'll put a subnet a.
Again this address range is a subset of this address range I'll click on okay.
So now it's creating a new virtual network a new subnet and a new public IP address.
Let's go on review and create and let's create the machine.
Now while the deployment is in progress in another tab, I believe based on our prior chapter, when
it came on to working with network security groups, when it comes on to the web VM zero one NSG in
the inbound security rules, we had added a rule to deny all traffic.
What I'll do is I'll perform a cleanup.
I'll just click on the rule and delete the rule.
I want to make sure that we can reach this machine because it from test VM zero one.
We want to be able to reach web VM zero one.
You know, reach the web server.
Let's just wait for the rule to get removed, and we can then confirm whether we can reach the web server
running on this machine from APM zero one.
Just to confirm we don't have the rule in place.
If I go back onto APM zero one and issue the same request of coal.
It does take a moment or two for the rule to take effect.
Then we should be able to reach the web server running on web VM zero one.
So after a moment's time, I'm getting a response back.
That means, you know, we can now reach the web server on web VM zero one.
I can see the deployment is complete when it comes on to my windows based machine.
I'll go on to the resource.
I'll connect by downloading the Remote Desktop connection file.
So for native RDP I'll download the RDP file on my local machine.
Let me connect on to test VM zero one.
Once we logged on to the machine, let me open up the edge browser.
This is on the windows server and within the edge browser.
Let me send in the request.
Where we can go on to.
So I'll put in HTTP and go on to ten .0.0.4.
I said by default we will not be able to reach the web server on that machine because there is no connectivity
between the virtual networks.
Each network is isolated in nature.
Hence, if we want to establish communication between the networks, we need to establish virtual network
peering.
Now this is very, very simple.
So you can see you cannot reach the page.
All we need to do is we can go on to either network.
So if I go on to, you know, there is a separate, um, view here When it comes on to your virtual
networks, you can go on to either network.
So I could go on to App network.
And from the app network there should be a setting known as Peerings.
I can go on to Peerings.
We can add a peering connection.
We can add a peering connection from the app network to the test network.
So I can just give it a name.
I'll scroll down so there are some settings in place.
I'll just leave the default setting.
The virtual Network wizard will actually create two links.
One link will be from our app network to the test network, and the other link will be from the test
network to the app network.
So let's give a link name here and click on add.
So there's a bidirectional link that gets created basically two links for each virtual network.
Let's wait till this is a moment or two.
Let's wait till we have the network connection in place.
So once done, we can see it is connected.
It is fully synchronized.
Let's try this again.
If I go on to my.
Okay, now I can see that automatically we get the home page of nginx.
Quite simple right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the concept of virtual network peering.
Okay.
Now that we are done, I will be doing another chapter in which I spin up machines for some another
service known as the standard load balancing service.
But for now, since we are done just to make sure we don't eat up on costs in case if we are done for
the day, I'm going to disconnect from all of my sessions.
And I said it's always a good practice to delete our resources.
I'm going to go on to all of my resources, click all of them and delete them accordingly.

--- Overview of VPN connections to Azure ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give kind of an overview when it comes on to VPN connections that can
establish when it comes onto Azure.
If you want to go into detail onto building VPN connections, then I suggest you go for an advanced
course that targets, let's say, the AZ 104 exam or the AZ 700 exam.
Here we have come to learn about the basics when it comes onto AZ 900.
In the early chapters, we had seen how we could deploy machines onto Azure virtual networks.
We have seen how we could connect from our laptop devices onto the virtual machine itself.
Now there are cases wherein a company might have multiple applications, multiple workloads running
on a set of machines within a virtual network.
Now, these could be private applications wherein these applications are not exposed onto the internet.
So you might not be having an e-commerce application.
You could be having, let's say, HR applications Running on these machines.
You want your company users.
You want your employees to actually access these applications, but they want to, you know, let's
say they get their laptop devices.
You know, the company provides them laptop devices.
They take the laptops home.
And now from their home Wi-Fi via the internet, they want to access securely the applications that
are running within the virtual network.
What they will need to do is they should establish, you know, kind of a private connection.
Why the internet?
See, when you go across the internet, you are no longer having a private connection.
It's a public connection because everything is public over the internet.
So you will have this use case scenario wherein employees, via their company devices need to access
applications within a virtual network.
You could also have a requirement wherein you have, let's say, applications on servers in an on premises
network that need to access, Let's say the applications running on the virtual network.
So I said you could be having air based applications running here.
And you you have some other applications on premises that need to call air functionality.
So this is requirements that you can have from a company perspective.
But what you can do is when it comes on to the clients, you know, when it comes on to your employees
that need to, you know, establish these private connections, what they can do is from Azure, they
can establish something known as sorry.
They can establish something known as point to site VPN connections.
In your virtual network.
You create something known as a gateway subnet, and then you create something known as a virtual network
gateway.
This is a separate resource.
Then your clients, you know your users from the laptop devices.
They can establish private connections.
So this is a secure and encrypted connection over the internet that can be established to your resources
within a virtual network.
Similarly, when it comes on to your servers, when it comes onto an on premises network, if they need
to connect, they can also connect via the virtual network gateway.
But here you can establish something known as a site to site VPN connection, because you want to connect
an entire site onto the virtual network.
Here it's only individual devices, so depending upon your requirement, you can go for either point
to site VPN connections or site to site VPN connections.
Again, there's a lot that you can learn when it comes down to building these connections.
So you can go for exams like, you know, if you're studying for exams like AZ, one of four, or studying
for exams like AZ 700, then you basically learn more about how do you work with these sort of connections,
how do you build these connections?
In this course, we're just trying to understand the or give an overview when it comes to VPN connections.

--- Overview of Azure ExpressRoute ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give kind of a brief overview on Azure Expressroute.
In the prior chapter, I talked about having these VPN connections in place where you can have either
a point to site VPN connection.
So if you have individual clients that need to connect onto resources within a virtual network, at
that point in time, you can create point to site VPN connections.
If you need an entire site, an entire network in your on premises data center to connect onto the virtual
network, then that time you can create a site to site VPN connection.
All of these connections are established over the internet.
Yes, you do have a secure and encrypted connection between your clients, your sites, and Azure,
but sometimes companies want to have kind of a private pipe, you know, a private connection between
their on premises network and Azure.
Now for this, what they can do is they can make use of Azure Expressroute.
With Azure Expressroute you get something known as Expressroute circuits.
These are connections can be established using your internet services providers.
Or your internet services provider should be having the capability of having a private connection from
their endpoint, you know, from from their site on to Microsoft.
And what you will do is you can make use of internet services providers to establish the sort of private
connection.
So it's not a cheap connection.
It's expensive.
But then what happens is that you get a private, dedicated connection with a particular speed.
So instead of depending upon the internet, right, you know, when you are working with resources over
the internet.
Obviously it depends on your internet bandwidth speed, but with a dedicated connection, you have different
speeds in place.
You can get higher speeds.
That means if you need better access to your resources in Microsoft, you can use an expressroute circuit.
And I said here, the best thing is that it's private in nature.
The communication between your clients and Microsoft does not go over the public internet.
It's a private connection.
You can use these expressroute circuits to establish connections to your resources.
Working in a virtual network.
At the same time, you can also connect on to public offerings from Microsoft.
So for example, you can establish or you can work with public resources like Azure SQL databases or
maybe Microsoft 365.
All of this via a private Expressroute connection.
You can actually go to the documentation page to understand more about Azure Expressroute.
So in this chapter, I want to give kind of this brief overview on, you know, this brief understanding
on this particular service.

--- Azure Load Balancer ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now we're going to be looking at a service known as the Azure Load Balancer Service.
First I want to give an introduction onto the purpose of the service altogether.
Now we have this concept of a load balancer.
So forget Azure.
There is a concept.
There is something that you can actually deploy known as a load balancer.
The entire purpose of a load balancer is to distribute incoming requests from clients on to your back
end.
Resources.
In an earlier section, you know, we had seen how we could deploy multiple virtual machines onto a
network.
We had also seen something, you know, a concept known as a virtual machine scale set.
Now, if you have multiple VMs that is hosting the same application and you want the user load, so
you want the user traffic to be distributed across these machines, right?
You want the load to be distributed across multiple virtual machines.
Multiple compute machines.
You need something in the front that will take in the request and distribute the requests across the
different machines.
For this, you can make use of a load balancer, so you can install a load balancing service in front
of your machines.
The Azure Load Balancer is a managed service wherein you don't need to install any load balancer solution.
You can make use of the service to load balance your requests, your incoming network traffic across
your backend servers.
So you can have back end servers running as part of a virtual network.
So let's say you have a web application running on a set of machines.
You can use the load balancing service to distribute the incoming requests.
Now the load balancer actually distribute the requests across the private IP addresses of the backend
machines.
So as such, we don't need public IP addresses to be assigned on the backend machines itself.
Now just a quick note on the various components of we will go through chapters on how do we provision
and make use of the Azure Load Balancing service.
But before that, just a quick note on some of the components of the load balancing service.
First is the frontend IP configuration.
So you know, what we can do is I told you that we don't need to have a public IP address assigned onto
the machines, but if you want requests from the internet to come onto the load balancing solution,
we will need a public IP address assigned onto the load balancer.
So instead of having a public IP address assigned onto each individual VM, we have a public IP address
assigned onto the load balancer.
The request will come onto the load balancer, and the load balancer can direct the request via the
private IP addresses.
So for this, for the public IP address configuration of the load balancing solution, we can make use
of a frontend IP configuration.
Then we have the backend pool.
So the backend pool will contain your machines right.
We need to configure what are the machines that will sit behind the load balancer?
We have something known as a health probe.
See the load balancer distributes requests across your backend machines.
But suppose if one of the machines is not working, it's down.
The load balancing solution should understand that the machine is not available and hence not send the
client request there.
But you have to do something to make sure that the machine comes back up.
But in the meantime, the load balancing solution should understand that a machine is down.
Do not send the client request onto that machine.
So for this you can make use of a health probe.
The health probe can be used by the load balancing solution to understand at regular intervals whether
the machine is in a healthy state.
Then we can define load balancing rules.
These are used to determine the request from clients and how they are routed onto the backend.
Virtual machines.
Right.
So just a quick introduction.
Let's move on to the subsequent chapters where we'll look at how can we use the load balancing solutions.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Setup ---

Now let's go through a demo on the Azure Load Balancing service.
What we're going to do is first we are going to deploy two machines.
We've already seen this earlier on.
We're going to deploy two machines based on Ubuntu Linux.
We'll install nginx this time on both machines.
So in the end what we want to simulate is we want to simulate requests that can get distributed to either
machines.
So I said we'll have two machines web VM zero one and web VM zero two.
Based on Ubuntu Linux we will install nginx.
I will create a default HTML page on both machines.
Then we'll create a load balancing service in the front.
So when users come onto the load balancing service, their requests would be directed onto either web
VM zero one or onto web VM zero two.
We will also disassociate the public IP addresses from both machines, just to showcase that we don't
need to have public IP addresses in place for the machines itself.
In this chapter, let's do the groundwork wherein we have our machines in place, our backend machines.
So here in Azure, let's go ahead and first build our machines.
That will be part of the backend pool.
I'll go on to the Virtual Machines blade and choose to create a new Azure VM.
I'll link it onto my existing resource group.
Give a name for the machine.
North Europe no infrastructure redundancy required based on Ubuntu Server 24.04.
Choose the instance the size as standard.
Underscore B-1s.
Give the required details.
We are going to log on to the machine data on.
Now here itself in terms of the allowed selected ports, I'll say please allow traffic on port 80 as
well.
So what this will do is this will add remember that this wizard creates the network security group for
you by specifying the inbound ports.
It will add rules.
So it will add one rule to allow traffic on port 22.
That will allow us to secure shell.
Allow us to log on to the machine.
It will add another rule to allow traffic on port 80.
Go on to this order networking.
What we can do is let me say I want to create a new network.
I just want to give a name and the IP address range.
Be as it is, give a subnet name as well.
Click on okay new public IP address.
I said we don't need the public IP address when it comes on to a load balancing solution, but I'm just
keeping this in place because we need to connect onto the machine and install the nginx web server.
Now there are different other ways in which we can go about installing the web server without assigning
a public IP address, but since this is a beginner level course, I want to go a little bit simple wherein
we have the public IP address in place, we will log in via the public IP address and install nginx.
We'll create this machine.
Let's wait till we have this machine in place.
Then we can go ahead and create the additional VM.
Once the deployment is complete for our initial web server machine, we can go on to the resource we
need to connect onto the machine itself.
But what we'll do is in another tab.
So I should be able to see my resources in place.
Let's deploy our second VM.
So in my same resource group let's give a name for the machine in North Europe.
No infrastructure again ubuntu server.
Leave the size.
Mention the password.
Again in the inbound port rules I'll say to allow traffic on port 80 on to the disk.
On networking, I just want to make sure that it's part of the existing virtual network in the existing
subnet.
It will assign a new public IP address.
That's fine.
Go on review and create and then I'll create this machine.
Now while we're deploying the second machine let's connect onto the first one.
So I'll take the public IP address.
Let's connect via command prompt.
So secure shell.
Onto the machine.
Let me update the packet index first.
Then I'll install the nginx web server.
Now once the web server in place I'm going to create a default HTML file in the location Relocation
of slash var slash slash HTML.
This is the location that the nginx server uses when it comes on to serving web content.
I'm first going to change the permission.
I'm going to give open permissions.
Please note that do not do this in your production based environment since this is just a demo.
In order to create the file here, I'm giving open permissions for this particular folder.
And then I'll just say let me create a new file.
I'll echo some content.
So I'll say this is web VM zero one.
And drag this on to a new default dot HTML file.
I'm doing this in the slash var slash slash HTML folder.
Now that we have this in place, if we take the public IP address of web VM zero one.
Go on to HP and let me do a default dot HTML.
We can continue on to the site and we're getting the the default page.
This is just to make sure that when we do send a request, we are directed onto web VM zero one.
Let's do the exact same thing with web VM zero two.
Let's take the public IP address.
Let's open up another session.
And perform the exact same steps.
First let's update the package index.
Install the nginx package.
Now go on to that folder.
Change the permissions of the folder.
And create a default HTML file.
So I'll say this is web VM zero two.
And direct this on to default HTML file.
So now for web VM zero two if I copy the public IP address.
Onto new tab and go on to default dot HTML.
I should see the page.
This is web VM zero two.
Right now we have our back end machines in place.
I said, we don't need the public IP addresses for each of these machines.
What we can do is we can go on to the network settings for each machine.
Go on to the network secure.
Sorry.
Go onto the network interface.
The IP configuration.
For the network interface, click on the IP configuration.
Scroll down.
Uncheck the button wherein we are associating the public IP address.
I'll click on save, which is de-linking the public IP address from the network interface.
We can do this for the other machine as well.
So for web VM zero one the same thing.
Go on to network settings.
Then we can go on to the IP configuration.
Then in the IP configuration on to the IP config itself click on save.
And this should update both network interfaces.
Now what we'll do is let's mark an end onto this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Setup - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Azure Load Balancer - Implementation ---

Now in the prior chapter, we had set up our back end machines.
In this chapter, let's now work with our Azure Load Balancer.
Currently for the network interface for web VM zero two.
Okay, so we don't have a public IP address for the machine.
It is currently doing the update.
Okay.
This is also done.
So if you want to verify we can go on to virtual machines.
And if I go on to web VM zero one what we will see is we won't see a public IP address because it's
no longer linked onto the network interface.
And similarly if you go onto VM zero two you will not see a public IP address there as well.
Now let's go ahead and deploy a resource based on the Azure Load Balancing service.
So here are all resources.
I'll click on create.
Let's search for the load balancing service.
So I'll search for the load balancer.
In the marketplace I should be able to create a resource based on the service.
We then get our normal wizard.
First and foremost, I need to choose my resource group.
Give a simple name for the load balancer.
In North Europe currently we have two types of load balancing SKUs.
We have the standard and we have the gateway.
We have two types of load balancers.
If we want requests from the internet to come onto our machines, we need to deploy a public facing
load balancer.
If you just need a traffic to be, you know, kind of distributed internally, then we can use an internal
load balancer.
I'll leave the tier as it is.
Go on next for the IP configuration I'll click on add an IP config.
See what we need to do is we are going to create you know we still have the public IP addresses that
were linked initially to the virtual machines.
We need a public IP address that can be assigned on to our load balancer.
Now we can go ahead and reuse the existing ones.
But what I'll do is let me create a new one.
So I'll say create a new public IP address.
But I'll say let me create a new one.
Just give a name.
Click on save.
Give a name for the front end IP configuration.
Click on save.
I'll go on to the next tab.
Now in the next tab we need to add our backend pool of machines.
Give a name.
Select the virtual network that has my machines.
So based on the network interface I can click on add.
And I should be able to see both of my machines in place.
I'll click on both of the machines based on the IP configuration.
You will see that it's only considering the private IP addresses or click on add.
Click on save.
So we're now adding the back end pool.
This is all configuration for the load balancer.
We can add inbound rules I won't add a rule as of yet.
We'll do the configuration later on.
I won't add any outbound rules.
I'll just go ahead and create the load balancer.
I'll click on create.
Now.
After a few minutes I can see I have my load balancer in place.
We can go on to the resource as part of the settings.
We have the front end IP configuration in place.
So now when requests are being made they can be made against the public IP address that's assigned onto
the load balancer.
We have our back end pool of machines.
I will now define a very simple health probe.
Remember what is the purpose of the health probe.
The load balancer needs to understand at regular intervals whether the back end machines are healthy
or not.
Because only if they're healthy, then it should direct the client request onto the machine.
Here I'll click on add and say I want to add a very simple probe.
What the probe will do is it will constantly send TCP requests on port 80 for the back end machines.
Now by default, we have a web server running on each of these machines, and the web server listens
on port 80, so it should be fine.
So whenever the load balancer the probe sends a request on port 80 of the machines, it should get a
response back.
So this is the regular interval timing of five seconds.
I'll click on save.
We are now adding a probe.
Once we add the probe, the next step will be to add the load balancing rule.
So I will go on to load balancing rules and choose to add a rule.
So we need to add a rule that will define okay when a client request comes in onto the load balancer.
How do we detect the request?
Now, for us it's very simple.
We have one load balancer.
We have one public IP address.
We have one backend pool.
And we have machines as part of the pool.
You can make it more complex in nature when you do have multiple front end IP addresses, you have multiple
backend pools.
That time you can create a number of rules.
For us, it's very simple.
So all I'm saying is whenever a request comes onto the front end IP address of the load balancer, then
direct my request onto the web pool that contains my machines only protocol of TCP.
Here I'm putting in the port number of the load balancer.
So if a request comes in onto the port number 80 of the load balancer, then direct the request onto
port 80 of the backend virtual machines.
I told you that when it comes onto the web servers, the nginx web servers, it listens for HTTP requests.
HTTP STP is based on the port number of port 80.
Choose my health probe has probe A.
Leave everything as it is and click on save.
So you're always saying is if a request is coming in on the load balancer, then direct the request
onto the backend pool of machines.
Now once this is done.
If I go on to the frontend IP configuration, I just taken the public IP address, go on to a new tab.
Let me do a default dot HTML and see what web server I am directed to.
So I am directed onto the machine web VM zero one.
If another client had to make a request onto the load balancer, they could be directed onto web VM
zero two.
So now the load balancer is distributing the incoming client requests across the virtual machines.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep my infrastructure as it is because I just want to show
a quick demo.
Later on when it comes on to Azure DNS.
But before we end, always make sure that when it comes on to your services.
So what we're doing is we're working with the load balancing service.
The load balancing service has a number of charges.
One of them is when you add the load balancing rule.
So here we can see that for the first five rules there is a charge per hour.
But when we explore the Azure Free services I can see that when it comes onto the load balancer, we
do get the ability to get five rules for free when it comes onto the standard load balancer.
So a good from that aspect, but always good to double check on the Microsoft documentation.
So I have gone on to the page wherein I can see all of the free services.
Then here I'll say let's see all of the free services.
And then you can scroll and figure out which service you are using and whether you're getting that for
free.
The service for free.

--- Azure Domain name system ---

Now I just want to go through or give a quick, uh, look when it comes on something known as Azure
DNS, the Domain Name System.
But before that, just for the benefit of students, I want to give kind of a quick overview on the
entire concept of the Domain Name System.
By no means.
This is an extensive approach, an extensive study.
Just to give a quick overview, let's say that you have a web application hosted on a virtual machine.
Now when you want to connect.
We've seen this earlier on when you want to browse for the home page of the web server, what you normally
do is in the browser, you'll put an HTTP or Https and the IP address.
Now when we browse for sites on the internet, we don't put the IP address.
We put some user friendly domain name because that's what we're used to as humans.
In order for our machine, you know, to kind of go to the web server running on, let's say, a virtual
machine with this particular public IP address, if we want to go through a, you know, we want to
go through a user friendly domain name.
We would need to map that domain name.
So for example, let's say we have a domain.
We own a domain of cloud portal hub.com.
If we want to reach that web application via the use of this particular domain, we would need to add
something known as a record somewhere, wherein we map the name of the domain onto the public IP address.
Then in the browser, when we type in the domain name, what happens is our client machine will first
of all go on to the internet.
It will make a flurry of requests wherein it goes through various DNS servers on the internet to try
to figure out, okay, what exactly is the IP address that is mapped onto this particular domain name?
Because we know we have written somewhere that we need to map this domain name onto the public IP address
of a machine that is hosting our web application.
But then our client machine doesn't know about that IP address.
All we know is we have this kind of user friendly domain name.
If we type this in the browser, then we should be directed on to a machine with a public IP address
a particular public IP address.
So our client machine, our browser basically goes on the internet.
It makes a series of requests when it goes through various DNS servers on the internet to try to figure
out, okay, first of all, what exactly is the IP address that is mapped onto that domain name?
Because in the end, when we want to reach, you know, even when we go to sites, when we're getting
a response back, our client machine actually establishes a connection onto the IP address of the remote
machine.
So the IP address is a way of identifying a machine on the network.
So even on the internet when we make when we go on to a site, when we're trying to get information
back, in the end our client machine is establishing in the client machine is establishing a connection
to the remote device via its IP address.
So in the end, if our laptop machine needs to go to the web server running on a virtual machine.
It first needs to figure out what is the IP address of the machine, then establish a connection, then
get the web content back.
But before that, why the use of the domain Name system?
It needs to figure out, you know, what is the IP address that is mapped onto the domain name itself?
It is to give kind of a brief overview on the entire system.
Now in Azure.
Azure provides their own inbuilt domain name system that matches DNS zones and records.
Azure also provides an internal name resolution for virtual machines.
We can assign a DNS name for a public IP address and access the web server via their public DNS name.
This is an option.
A virtual machine also gets an internal DNS name.
Now, in the next chapter, I'm going to give a very brief demo on something known as DNS zone.
Just to give you an idea of the entire concept of the Domain Name System.
In this chapter, I want to give kind of a quick introduction.

--- A look at using Azure DNS zones ---

Fine.
Welcome back.
Okay, so now in this chapter I briefly want to go through an example on, uh, how we can use something
known as Azure DNS to manage the domain names when it comes onto the resources we have on Azure.
Now, please note that when it comes on to a public domain name, we need to own a domain.
You would need to go on to a site an external domain provider.
So here as an example I buy my domains from GoDaddy.com.
You can go ahead and, you know, go on to your own domain provider.
You would need to buy a domain.
I normally buy domains for less than 1 USD per month just for testing purposes for you.
You don't need to go ahead and buy a domain.
It's fine.
I just want to showcase how you can map a domain name using Azure DNS or to your resources within Azure.
Now, early on, what we've done is we had deployed a load balancing solution.
The load balancer would direct requests onto a backend set of virtual machines.
When we do go on to the load balancer, we go via the public IP address.
Now what I can do is I can say that okay, when I go on to Cloud Hub Learning.com, I should be directed
onto my load balancer.
Now there is an easier way to do this, but just for the benefit of showing something known as Azure
DNS where you manage the DNS records within Azure itself.
What I'm going to do is in all resources, I'm going to create a new resource.
So this is going to be based on Azure DNS.
And in the marketplace I want to create something known as DNS zone.
The DNS zone should should be the same name.
So this cloud hub learning.
So let me go over here.
It's within my resource group.
So cloud Hub learning.com.
Let me go on to DNS zone editor.
Won't add anything.
Let's do a review and create and create our DNS zone.
Then once we have DNS zone in place within your DNS provider for your domain, they should give you
the ability of managing something known as a name service.
So currently, you know, I told you that when we make a request from our machine, our laptop on to
a particular domain, it needs to browse the internet first to figure out, okay, the domain name is
mapped onto what IP address goes on to different sites.
It goes on to these different nameservers.
To understand these name servers actually contain records of mapping of the domain name onto the IP
address.
Please note I'm trying to keep everything as simple as possible.
There's a lot that actually goes on.
There's a lot of records or different types of records that you can actually add when it comes onto
your name servers.
So I want to just give a very simple example.
Okay.
I have my DNS zone in place.
Cloud hub Learning.com.
It's the same name as the domain that I've already purchased from an external domain provider.
Now, in order to manage my records from here itself, I will need to copy each and every Nameserver
go onto my external provider.
I'll click on Change Nameservers.
I'm going to say that I'm going to use my own nameservers.
So I'm using the ones that Azure has provided as part of this domain.
I'll add another nameserver.
So I need to add all four of them.
Then I'll click on save.
I'll probably need to authorize because I do have an extra level of verification.
To send out my code.
It will take some time for the name service to update.
But what I can do now is I can go on to my zone here.
I can add a record set.
So I'll say let me add a new record.
So Cloud Hub learning.com right for the main domain name itself I'm going to say that let's map this
on to the public IP address of the load balancer.
Let me go ahead and click on add.
So once we have this kind of record in place now in a new tab, if I go on to Cloud Hub learning.com
and let's do a default dot HTML.
You can see I am directed onto web VM zero two.
So now instead of going via the public IP address I'm going via a domain name.
The domain name will be mapped onto the public IP address of the load balancer.
And then the load balancer is directing me on to the second machine.
In this chapter I want to give kind of this quick demo on using Azure DNS.
Just to give you an idea.
That's it.
You don't have to go along.
I mean you don't have to follow along.
And, you know, basically practices because you need to buy your domain name.
So I'm not forcing you to buy a domain name just to give you kind of an idea when you when you go for
advanced exams there, you can think about maybe buying because I said domain names are not that expensive
for me.
I normally like to practice and make sure that I learn my concepts, you know, in much more detail.
That's why I go ahead and as much as possible, try to practice mapping domain names to the services
that I have on Azure.
Okay, now that we are done, what I'll do is, um, I'm going to go ahead and delete my entire resource
group since I do have a lot of resources in place, instead of deleting the resources altogether, I'll
just delete the entire resource group.

--- Introduction to Azure Storage Accounts ---

Hello and welcome on to this section.
In this section we are going to cover an Azure storage option that's known as Azure Storage Accounts.
In this chapter, I want to give a quick introduction to Azure Storage Account.
Service is a storage on Azure that can be used to.
It can be used as a mechanism for storage of blob objects, files, queues, and tables.
There are different types of storage accounts.
We are going to be focusing on something known as standard general purpose V2 storage accounts.
This account gives us access to the following services.
So we get access to the blob service, the file Share service, the Queue service and the table service.
When we do create a resource based on the service of the Azure Storage account, an important thing
is that the name of the resource needs to be unique within Azure.
So I said, we get access to full services.
Let me go through a quick overview of these four services.
First is the blob service.
The blob service is used to store large amounts of unstructured data.
This is suitable for storing images, documents, videos, and audio files.
So for example, in your storage account, we can make use of the blob storage service to store files
such as your video files, your audio files.
The first step is within the blob service.
You create something known as a storage container.
The storage container is used to organize your blob based objects.
Don't worry, we'll be going through chapters on how to use these various services.
First and foremost, I want to give a quick introduction onto these services.
Then we have Azure files.
Now let's say in a company users need to access their own respective file shares.
So you want to give their you know, you want to give some locations to users so that you can store
files.
In order to make this work, you will first need to deploy a file server on which they can store their
files.
And then on the server you start creating file shares or shared folders.
So as an organization you are responsible for maintaining the server.
You are responsible for making sure that storage is sufficient so that users can store their files in
the shared folders.
Well, instead of using or maintaining your own file shares, what you can do is you can make use of
the file share service within Azure Storage accounts.
So in the storage account, you can just go ahead and create different file shares for your users.
These are file shares are fully managed.
They can be accessed via the normal protocols of Server Message Block and the Network File System Protocol.
And here the physical storage is managed for you.
Then we have the very simple queue service.
This is a messaging service.
If you have the requirement wherein different messages need to be sent between application level components,
you can make use of the queue service.
And then finally we have the table service.
The table service is used to store non-relational structured data.
Let's say that an application needs to store data about users.
We can go ahead and use the table storage service.
So first and foremost I want to give a quick introduction.
I told you in the subsequent chapters we look at examples on how we can make use of Azure storage accounts.

--- Lab - Creating an Azure Storage Account ---

Now in this chapter, let's go ahead with the process of creating a resource based on the storage account
service.
Now I could go on to all resources and click on create and then search for the storage account in the
Azure Marketplace.
One way of doing this on the portal menu, we also have storage accounts in place so we can go on to
this particular blade, this particular overview, this particular page.
And from here we can say let's go ahead and create a new storage account.
So let me go ahead and create a new storage account.
From here we're going to have a wizard in which we can specify the different configuration aspects about
the storage account service.
Now I'm going to go ahead and create a new resource group.
Since I don't have one in place.
Normally I delete my resource groups just to delete my resources.
Now we need to give a unique storage account name.
This storage account name should have not been taken by any other customer within Azure.
So it's not only that it needs to be unique within your own account, it needs to be unique across Azure.
So we need to give a unique storage account name that has not been taken by anybody else.
So normally I append some numbers after the name to make it unique in nature.
Again, the region I'll leave it as North Europe.
Now we can select a service.
We are going to be choosing the Azure Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake.
What this does is when you choose this particular option, we are getting an option to create something
known as a general purpose V2 storage account.
When you do create a general purpose V2 storage account, we will get access to all of these services.
The four services of the Blob service, the File Share Service, the Queue Service, and the Table Service.
We have something known as redundancy.
I have another chapter on redundancy, but since this is just a very simple demo, I don't need that
much redundancy in place.
So I'll just choose locally redundant storage.
That's good for us.
I will click on next.
There are a lot of options in place when it comes onto a storage account.
The features just keep on increasing.
One feature is we're going to cover later on is the access tier.
So what we can do is we can set the default access tier for objects that are going to be uploaded onto
the Azure Storage account when it comes onto the blob storage service.
There's another feature known as enable hierarchical namespace.
When you do this, you double down your storage account as an Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
But in our initial lesson, we'll not configure these options.
I'll just go on to next.
I'm not changing anything.
We have network connectivity.
We are enabling public access from all networks.
I'll go on to data protection.
So we have this sort of, um, features in place that help to recover our objects, you know, because
this service is being used for storing data.
So we have these sort of features in place that help us to recover objects in case by mistake, if someone
has gone in and removed or deleted the data within the storage account itself.
I'll leave the options as they are.
I'll go on to review and create and create the storage account.
Now please note that even though you know the name is quite misleading storage account because sometimes
students tell me, are we creating another Azure account?
We are not.
Just the name given to kind of the service.
We're creating a resource based on the service within Azure.
That's it.
Click on create and it's going in with the creation of the storage account.
It'll just take less than a minute to have the storage account in place.
Let's just wait and come back.
So after waiting for less than a minute, I have my storage account in place.
I can go on to the resources.
There's only one resource that gets created here, and that is the storage account resource.
On the left hand side, under data storage, we can see our four services.
We have the blob service that is represented by containers.
We have the file shares service.
We have the queues service and we have the table service.
So for now let's mark an in on the chapter wherein we've gone ahead and create our Azure Storage account.

--- Lab - Working with the BLOB service ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through how we can start using the blob service.
If we want to upload our files as objects within the storage account, we can make use of the blob service
to start using the blob service.
The first thing that we have to do is to create something known as a container.
I can add a container here.
I can give a name for the container.
There is something known as an anonymous access level.
We'll go through this in a moments time.
I'll click on create.
So it's like we're creating a root folder in which we can upload our files as objects.
Now I keep on saying upload our files as objects.
And what does this mean if I go on to my container.
Now here we have the ability to create a directory.
We have the ability to upload our files.
Let me create a directory.
You know, it's like a virtual directory.
It does not actually exist in Azure.
Only once we copy a blob, then it'll go and create that directory.
Then we create a directory of images.
Click on okay.
So we are in the images directory here in the images directory.
Let me upload a file from my local machine.
So I'll click on upload I can click on browse for files.
This will take me onto my local machine.
Now in my local machine I have two files in place.
One is a script based file, another is an image file.
Let me open up the image file.
We can now basically save this onto our images container.
Sorry our images folder within our data container.
I can go back onto my data container.
And here I can upload or sorry create another directory.
Let's create a directory of scripts.
Click on okay.
We are now in the scripts directory.
I can upload the other file that I have.
You can upload any file.
So you have the ability to upload virtually any type of file on to the Azure Storage account.
I'll click on upload.
We have now the files in place.
If I go on to my 01. SQL base file here, this is coming up as an object.
Okay.
Within the service itself.
So again what do I mean by objects.
If I go on to my main data container.
So we have two folders each object sorry.
Each file that we upload onto the storage account service onto the blob service.
It is stored as a binary based object.
It's stored as a blob.
Your data is still intact within the file itself, but the only thing is that it is stored as a binary
object because it is stored as a binary object.
You can store virtually any type of file within the blob service in the storage account.
See for you or for an application.
It does not make a difference in the end.
What is the target store storing the data has?
As long as you can retrieve the object again has a file, it's fine.
See I could go ahead and click on this file.
Or just let me click on the 01. SQL.
What I can do is I can download the file on my local machine.
Right.
It's saving the file in the downloads folder.
And in the end it's a SQL base file.
So if I open up the file, I'll say, let's open up in notepad.
You will actually see that it is a SQL base file.
Let me just open up here.
You will see it's a SQL base file.
The contents of the file are intact.
I said it's only when you upload a file onto the service it is storing it as a blob.
A binary base object.
It's a much more efficient way because you can then I said store virtually any type of file within this
particular service.
Now each and every object.
So if I go on to the data container this time, let me go on to the images folder for the storage image.
Now each object that you upload gets a unique URL.
If I copy the URL on the clipboard.
Aboard.
Put it on to a different tab.
We will see that the URL is a combination of the name of the storage account.
The type of service is blob dot net, the name of the container, the name of the folder, and then
the name of the file.
So every object that you upload onto the blob service gets a unique URL.
If I hit on enter, it's saying that public access is not permitted in this particular tab.
I am trying to access the object as an anonymous user.
I'm not logged in onto my Azure account here.
Yes, I'm logged in.
Right?
Sorry.
Here I'm logged in, but not here.
Here I am, trying to go in as an anonymous user and try to access the object.
By default, this sort of public access is not enabled due to security concerns.
Obviously, you don't want anybody to have the ability to get data from your Azure storage account.
Now for us, I said, since this is just a very simple demo, I'm going to enable this public access.
In order to enable this public access, I first need to go into settings.
Go on to configuration.
Within configuration there is a setting allow blob anonymous access.
Currently it is disabled.
I will enable this and click on save.
Again, not a recommended approach.
I'm just doing this to showcase that you can get a unique URL for each and every object.
So it's saying it just takes around 30s to take effect.
What we can do is I can just take this entire URL.
Let me go on to a new tab just to kind of refresh the page when it comes onto the Azure storage account.
If I now go on to the containers and go on to my data container.
Now for my data container, I can change the access level.
So currently it is set at private.
No anonymous access.
I can set it on to blob.
Anonymous access.
Anonymous read access for blobs only.
That means now blobs within the container can be read by an anonymous request.
Let me click on okay to change the access level.
Once I do this, let me hit on enter again and now I can see the image.
What I did is I just took a snapshot or a screenshot of the Microsoft documentation and saved it as
an image.
But now I have the ability to access the object within the blob service within the storage account.
So in the chapter, first and foremost, I want to go through a quick view when it comes onto the blob
service.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - Blob Access tiers ---

Now I want to go through a concept known as access tiers.
When it comes onto your blog based objects in Azure storage accounts.
Now for us, what we've been doing is we've been storing a very few files.
Right.
Just a couple of files within a container in Azure Storage account.
But normally a company might store millions of objects within an Azure storage account.
You know, on Azure and Azure Storage account can actually double down on something known as a Data
Lake Gen2 storage account when the company uses the storage account has a data lake.
They ingest all sorts all types of data within the storage account itself so they can have multiple
storage containers.
Multiple, let's say log files coming in has objects.
They are ingesting this onto the blob service within a storage account because it's setting it up as
a data lake.
So companies might have millions of objects within the blob service within an Azure Storage account.
Now, there are various factors that govern the pricing when it comes onto Azure storage.
One important aspect is the storage itself.
Here I'm just giving a snippet from the Microsoft documentation when it comes onto the pricing for something
known as the different access tiers.
You know, when it comes on to an object, by default, the objects are set onto the hot access tier.
Here we can see that when it comes onto the first 50TB of data per month, there is a cost per gig for
the next 450TB per month.
Again, there's another cost linked to it.
So one of the important factors when it comes on to costing for Azure storage is the storage itself,
the storage cost.
Now for us, it doesn't make that much of a difference because we just have a few objects in place.
Why is it when companies store millions and millions of objects within Azure Storage.
Then this does make a difference.
And it's always the case that, you know, initially a company might use objects quite frequently,
but then after some time they don't need the objects anymore.
I mean, they don't need to access the objects.
They probably still need the objects to be in place, but they don't need to access the objects because
it.
Let's say that in this use case, the company is ingesting, let's say, log files from an application
and storing it as objects in a container in a storage account.
Then you have another application that is processing those files.
Once the application has processed those files, those files are not required to be processed anymore
or not required to be accessed anymore.
Yes, the company still needs to retain the files, but at the moment they don't need to.
You know, they don't need that aspect of being required to view or process the files any further.
So could be that, you know, every day a batch of files is coming in, the files need to be recovered,
processed and then maybe stored in another container and just kept over there.
They don't need to be processed anymore.
No one needs to read the files, but they still need to be in place.
Now, when you start ingesting files on a daily basis and you have processed them, you want to save
on costs when it comes onto the process files.
Well, what you can do is you can change the access tier of those process files.
There are different access tiers when we upload our objects.
I told you by default they go on to the hot access tier.
This is the default tier for objects.
This is optimized for objects that are accessed frequently.
Then we have the cool access tier.
Now the cool access tier is ideal for objects that are infrequently accessed, so I said it's good for
those files after they've been processed.
You convert the access tier of those files to the cool access tier, but here you have to make sure
that the files are stored for a minimum of at least 30 days.
Here the storage costs are lower, but then the access costs are higher.
So what do I mean by this?
So if you scroll on top again just to compare these storage costs, what you will see here is when it
comes onto the storage costs for objects in the cool access tier, you will see that it's a little bit
less than that for the objects in the hot access tier.
And when you have millions of objects in place, this does make a big difference.
But what I'm saying here is two important aspects.
One is that, uh, if I scroll down.
So one is that the storage costs are lower.
That's what I'm saying here when compared with the hot access tier.
But the access costs are higher.
I told you, when it comes onto Azure storage, there are different parameters that need to be considered
when it comes onto costing.
One parameter is the storage cost itself, but another parameter is the access cost.
So there is a small charge that is incurred when you, for example, access an object.
So there's not only a charge for storing the object, there's also a cost for accessing the object.
So when you have objects in the cool access tier, yes the storage costs are less.
But then when you start accessing the object, it's more it's more than that of the objects in the hot
access tier.
That's why the cool access tier is ideal for objects that are infrequently accessed.
Second, they need to be stored for a minimum of at least 30 days.
For example, let's say you store the objects in the hot or in the cool access tier for around ten days,
but then you decide, okay, you need to convert them back onto the hot access tier, which you can
do, but you need to convert them back because they are being accessed more frequently and you are incurring
higher access costs.
Well, the problem is you will still be charged for the 30 days.
So I said there's a minimum of 30 days that needs to be in place for the objects in the cool access
tier.
So if you change the tier before 30 days again, you will still be charged as a charge for that 30 days.
So you need to be very careful, you understand?
Okay.
Really, are the objects not being accessed that frequently?
Then you can convert the tier to the cool access tier.
Then we have the cold access tier.
This is ideal for objects that are rarely accessed or modified, but you still need to access them.
An object can be set on the cool access tier.
Here, the object needs to be stored for a minimum of 90 days.
And then finally we have the archive access tier.
This is ideal for objects that are rarely accessed, but if you need to access them, there is a waiting
period.
So it's not that you can access the object directly because see here in the archive access tier, it's
the least cost for storage.
But when you want to access the file, you first have to send a request.
Then the storage service will kind of change the tier of that object.
And then you can access the object.
So there's a caveat here when it comes to storing objects in the archive access tier.
And here the data need to be stored for at least 180 days a minimum of 180 days.
So in this chapter, I want to kind of go through the concept of access tiers that we have for objects
in Azure storage.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Accounts - Blob - Access tiers ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through a quick view when it comes on to access tiers.
Currently I have a storage account in place.
This is based on the Azure General Purpose V2 storage account.
Within the storage account I have a data container in place.
In this data container I have two folders.
I have an images folder and I have a scripts folder.
With the images folder.
I have one image in place and within the scripts folder I have a script base file in place.
What you'll notice is for the object there is an access tier, so currently it is the hot access tier.
This means that this is ideal for objects that are frequently accessed.
If we want to change what is the default access tier for objects within your storage account, you can
go on to your storage account and go on to the configuration on the settings currently and in the configuration,
if you scroll down, there is a default tier that you can set for your blobs.
It can be either the hot, the cool, or the cold access tier.
Yeah.
So now when you upload your objects, let's say you want them to be in the default in the cool access
tier, we can go ahead and change the default setting and click on save accordingly.
But please note that again remember about the costing aspect.
So it's not only about the storage of the object, it's also about accessing the object.
If I go back onto my containers and go on to an object, we also have the ability.
If I go on to my scripts, go on to let's say 01. SQL.
So currently we have the ability to download the object, and even this object is of the access tier,
the hot access tier and an individual blob level.
I can change the tier.
And when changing the tier I have an additional option of the archive access tier.
So I can change it either again onto the cool, the cold or the archive access tier.
So if you you know, if you're storing, let's say, database backups within an Azure storage account
and you don't need to access the backup for a long duration of time, you can think about keeping the
access tier as the archive access tier to save on storage costs.
But what you need to note is that when you set the access tier onto the archive access tier, it will
make your blob inaccessible until you perform a process of rehydration.
So in order to access your object again, you will need to convert the access tier either onto the hot
or the cool access tier.
And this could take several hours.
So even though you are saving significantly on the storage costs, you have to think about how do you
access your object later on?
As I said, for a database backup, you might not need to access the data right away.
You know, you could probably send a request to basically rehydrate the database backup.
So if I just go ahead and click on save to save the access tier.
So is it.
Let me click on refresh right.
Change it okay.
Let me click on change again.
Okay.
Now it's right.
It's in the archive access tier.
Now because it is in the archive access tier it's saying that the blob is currently being archived and
you cannot download the object.
The only way is to rehydrate the object by copying and pasting it onto the desired storage account,
or change the blob tier altogether.
So here I can say change the tier, and let's say I want to move it back onto the hot access tier.
There is a rehydrate priority.
So I said there is a process of rehydrating the object to go back onto the hot access tier.
If you need the rehydrate process to run immediately to run quickly, you can choose high, but then
you have an incurred extra cost.
By default you have the standard and this will take time, but it's also changing.
The access tier may result in additional charges.
What I'll do is I'll just click on save and you'll see that immediately.
It's not going to change.
It's not going to go onto the hot access tier.
It will take time.
So in this chapter, I want to go through the concept of being able to modify the access tiers for your
objects in blob storage.

--- Azure Storage Accounts - Data Redundancy ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the data redundancy concept when it comes onto Azure Storage.
Now, when it comes down to services that Azure offers, they make sure that they maintain high availability.
So when it comes onto Azure storage, they maintain high availability of their data.
They guarantee an uptime percentage of more than 99%, 99.9%.
And in case if they breach that service, they will actually give you service credit.
So we are talking about if you look at the case of Azure Storage, we are talking about storing our
data.
So we are trusting that Azure has the right storage in place, the right capabilities of keeping our
data not only safe, but having, you know, high durability, making sure that we don't lose our data.
Hence, we have that trust with Azure that they will keep our data safe.
So when it comes to data within Azure Storage, they have these different data redundancy options in
place.
And by data redundancy I mean that they will make sure that we don't lose our data.
Now they have different data redundancy options in place.
By default we have locally redundant storage.
This is the least redundant storage option in locally redundant storage.
Azure makes three copies of your data within a single data center.
So when you upload a file as an object in the blob service in your Azure storage account, there are
three copies of your data made within a single data center.
So if there is any problem, if one object gets corrupted and it's not available, your object has such
will still be available because there are multiple copies in place.
So even with the least redundant storage option, there are still three copies of your data made within
a single data center.
Then we have the next redundancy option that's known as zone redundant storage.
Now we talked about the concept of Azure regions having something known as availability zones.
So within a region you will have multiple availability zones.
Each availability zone is a collection of data centers.
So in locally redundant storage what happens if the entire data center goes down?
Then your objects are not available with the help of zone redundant storage your objects.
Your data is replicated across the three availability zones in a particular region.
So now you have more data redundancy in place.
Even if a data center goes down, your data will still be available because it will be available in
another data center, in another availability zone.
But we could go a step further.
Let's say that the entire region goes down.
So let's say in this case you have created an Azure storage account in the east US location.
The entire region has gone down and you can't access your objects.
Now please note that there's quite a big event if a region is not available with companies that really
store sensitive and critical data.
They might have a requirement wherein they cannot, even for a few minutes, have their data not available.
So they would need to look at other options, right.
More than just zone redundant storage.
So we have now geo redundant storage.
So what is geo redundant storage?
In this particular redundancy option, three copies of your data are made to a single physical location
in the primary region using locally redundant storage.
So here when you upload an object again three copies are made to the data center to one data center
in the primary region.
So let's say east us.
If your storage account is in east US then with Azure you have something known as no paired regions.
So with East US West US is taken as a paired region.
So let's say that you've deployed your storage account onto the east US location.
What will happen is in geo redundant storage, your data is replicated to another region altogether.
So if the primary region goes down the main region for hosting your storage account, you can still
access your data in the secondary region.
And obviously it's great that we have these various options of increasing our data redundancy.
But what we have to understand is that the cost is also going to increase for each increase redundancy
option.
So here you are going to pay double the cost of storing objects in the primary and in the secondary
location.
At the same time you also pay for the bandwidth cost for the data being transferred from primary to
secondary.
So it's only for those companies that really, really need a high redundancy option for their data that
they should opt for this.
And then we have a variation when it comes onto geo redundant storage.
And that's known as geo zone redundant storage.
So in geo redundant storage in the primary location okay your data is stored using LRS.
All the objects are in one data center but in geo zone redundant storage in the primary location.
Your data is replicated not just in a data center, but across three availability zones in the primary
region.
And again, three copies in your data is copied onto a secondary location.
So we have these different redundancy options in place when it comes onto your storage accounts.
So in Azure when you create a storage account.
So let's say I'm going through the process of creating a storage account here.
Let me just choose an existing resource group.
And you can give a storage account name.
We can choose the primary service.
We can choose the performance.
We have the redundancy options in place.
So we have the geo redundant storage.
We have the locally redundant storage.
We have zone redundant and we have geo zone redundant.
So when we create our storage account we have the option of choosing our redundancy for our objects
within the storage account itself.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the concept when it comes onto redundancy.

--- Lab - Working with Azure File shares ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I briefly want to go through working with file shares.
So within your Azure General Purpose V2 storage account, we have access to various services.
We looked in brief at working with the blob service, wherein when we upload our files, they are stored
as objects on the service itself.
We can also work with file shares.
So if you want to have dedicated file shares for your users, you can go ahead and create file shares
from here itself.
It's actually quite simple.
I can go ahead and click on adding a file share.
I can give a name, a simple name and what you have to understand that in the background the entire
storage is managed for you.
You have to worry about the increase in storage.
You can just start uploading your files.
There are these different access tiers available for the file shares.
So you have transaction optimized.
You have the hot and the cool.
We won't focus much on this.
There's more of a focus on the access tiers for your blob based services.
So I'll leave it as it is.
there is an option to enable the backup for your files in the file share.
I will not enable the backup.
We are doing a very simple demo.
I'll click on review and we can create the file share.
The file share is a little bit different than the blob service.
So we have a file share now in place I can go on to the browse option.
And here we can browse for the file share.
If you want we can perform the same operation of adding directories.
So I can add an images directory.
I can add a scripts directory.
And then within the images directory I can upload the same files that we have on our local machine.
This time around I'm storing them onto the file share.
So going back onto the scripts I can upload my script base file.
And then we have the files in place here.
The main difference is right.
If I click on any file or Okay, we get a URL.
If I just try to copy the URL on the clipboard and move it on to a different tab, it's not going to
work.
It's going to say some invalid header value.
This is not the right way in which you access your files in blob storage.
Yes, we get a unique URL for every object, but that does not work when it comes onto file shares.
Here we have to connect onto the entire file share itself, and you will see that your files are indeed
just stored as normal files.
They are not stored as binary based objects.
So how can we connect onto the file share.
So if I go on to my file shares.
We have this connect option.
If I click on connect it will tell us how we can connect onto the file share from our windows based
clients from Linux and from Mac OS.
I'll choose windows for now.
I have the drive letter.
Let me show the script.
So there's a script that can run in which we can, you know, connect on to our file.
Share.
Now, what I'm saying here is the script will check if the storage account is accessible via the TCP
port number of 405.
So this is the port number used by the server message block protocol.
If you're trying to connect from a company laptop, you might not be able to connect to the file share
because maybe your system admin might have limitations in place on what port numbers are accessible
from your machine.
But I'll still show you how we can connect onto the file.
Share.
So what I can do is I can copy this entire script onto the clipboard on my windows machine.
I will open up windows PowerShell.
I can then right click on my mouse and paste in the code.
So what's happening is it is first trying to see if it can establish a connection or to the file share.
So that has succeeded.
And now it's going to map a drive on my local client machine onto the file share.
If I hit on enter it should now map a Z drive onto the file share.
Right.
It's done.
Now, if I go on to my Z drive, and if I do a listing, I can see my images folder in place, my scripts.
I can go on to each and every folder and I'll see my information accordingly.
So now what I've done is for my client machine, I have mapped a drive onto the file share.
So for your users you know you can have I said file shares for your individual users.
Your users can then map the drives from their local machine onto the file shares.
Right?
Pretty simple.
Now what I'll do is I'll just delete.
The drive.
Or disconnect basically from the file share.
And we should be disconnected.
If I go back onto my C drive I'm back.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to showcase how we can basically work with file shares within our storage
account.

--- Connecting onto a file share from macOS ---

Now in this chapter, let's see how we can connect on to a file share from a mac OS device.
Here we already have a file share in place within our Azure Storage account.
Let me click on the connect button.
And here let me go on to Mac OS.
Here again we can create a mount point.
It's saying that we need to show the script.
So let me copy the script onto the clipboard.
Let me open up utilities on my machine.
Open up a terminal.
Let me paste in the code for opening a connection or to the file share.
I'll hit on enter.
So we are connecting onto the file share itself.
And now we are connected onto the data share.
Here we can see our images folder.
And in this we should be able to see our image.
And we can see our script space folder.
So in this chapter I want to showcase how we can connect to a file share from our Mac OS device.

--- Azure File Sync service ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give a very brief note when it comes on to using something known as
the Azure File Sync Service.
We've already covered the Azure File shares or the Azure File Service that's available within Azure
Storage accounts.
The entire purpose of Azure files is you can create file shares.
You can give it give it to your users.
And this alleviates the burden of the company need to manage and maintain storage and systems required
to create and maintain these shares.
But even though Azure Files does provide a managed service, you know, sometimes users and applications
that need to access files, they need quick access to certain set of files.
So yes, we can go ahead and use Azure Files as a managed service for storing our files.
But there are cases wherein I said applications and users need fast access to files.
So even though we can quickly get files from Azure file shares, sometimes even a small fraction of
latency, you know, when it comes to applications is a problem.
It can cause an issue.
You know, what you can do is you can make use of the file sync service to convert a Windows server.
So what you can do is on your local data center, you can create a Windows Server, have a Windows Server
in place.
This can behave as a local cache for the commonly accessed files on this machine.
On the server, you will install an agent known as Azure File Sync.
That Azure File Sync agent can sync all of the commonly used files from your Azure file shares onto
your local data center.
You know, it's more it's then more locally available to your users and applications.
So then your users and applications can then fetch these common use files directly from the Windows
Server itself, rather than the request going onto the file share.
So yes, the file shares will still be there.
I said it's only for those commonly required files that you can, you know, the users and applications
can make a request and the files will be recovered or the files will be taken from the local Windows
server.
This local Windows Server, I said, will have an agent running that's known as the Azure File Sync
Service.
In this chapter, I want to give this important note about this particular feature that's available
for your file shares.

--- Lab - Azure Queue Storage ---

In the prior two chapters, we had seen how we could work with the blob service and how we could work
with the Fileshare service.
In this chapter, I briefly want to go through how we can work with the queue service.
Normally you will work with these services or you will send requests onto the services from your applications
even when it comes onto queues.
Mostly, most of the time you will have applications that will send messages to a queue and you will
have other applications that can receive messages from a queue.
So here are the main thing that I can just show you is how we can create a queue using the queue service.
And then we also have the ability here itself to go on to the queue.
So we have created a storage queue.
I can go onto the queue itself and it gives me the ability within the portal itself to add messages.
So I could add a test message, could add multiple messages.
I'll click on okay I can add another message.
So now we have messages in the queue.
So you have one application that is sending messages onto the queue.
And you can have another application or another component of an application reading messages from the
queue.
Here I could dequeue each and every message.
So do I want to remove the first element in the queue and I can remove the second message.
So nothing much here.
All we are doing is we are creating a queue.
We are sending messages on the queue and we are receiving messages.
So normally this is done by components of an application.
You will write a program, the program you know, one program will be used for sending messages and
another program will be used for receiving messages.

--- Lab - Azure Table Storage ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through how we can use the table service.
So the table service is used for storing non-relational structured data.
Let me go ahead and add a table.
Let's say that I'm adding information about courses onto the table.
So I'll just give a simple table name.
Now if I click so I can click on the table, you know with the containers I could go ahead and add the
blobs onto the container here itself.
For the file shares, there was a browse option in which I could browse for the file shares in the queues
here itself, I could go on to the queue.
I could add a message onto the queue.
I could remove a message from the queue.
But within the table here itself I can't do much.
The only thing I can do is I can delete the table.
Something was access policy, access control.
What we can do is we can actually go on something known as a storage browser.
Let me just hide this.
So there is a storage browser facility within the Azure portal itself.
Where in your.
I can work with my container service.
I can work with my file shares.
I can work with my queues.
And I can also work with my tables.
Here I can click on the table itself.
And now we can start adding data onto the table.
When you're adding data, you add something known as entities on the table.
So you might be familiar.
You know, if you're coming from a relational database background, you might be familiar with having
tables in a database.
And within the table you have columns of information.
You then add rows of information onto the table based on the various columns.
Here we add entities.
And when we're adding entities, it is asking for something known as a partition key and something known
as a row key.
In this service, what happens is when you start adding your data, you know you can have attributes.
So for example, let's say I said I'm adding information, let's say about courses, Let's see.
For each entity I have the course ID, I have the course name and I have the course category.
Now I can decide that one of these attributes can behave as the partition key.
Then what the table service will do is it will create various partitions based on the category value.
So if I have a category value of let's say certification.
So all of my certification based courses data will be in one partition for another category value.
For another category value the data will be stored in another partition.
This just helps the service to easily find data.
So if you're finding data based on a particular category value, it becomes easier for the service to
locate the data because it is stored in different partitions based on the category value itself.
This is very useful when you have a lot of data that you're storing within the table service.
So for example, if I put in the category value.
So I'm saying that okay, my partition key maps on to my uh, sorry not certification.
So let's say I'm saying my partition key maps onto my category value.
The row key helps to uniquely identify the row or the entity sorry within the partition itself.
So maybe I can use the course ID.
This can also be a string, and we can add another property when it comes onto the course name.
There are different types that we can mention, but by default each entity needs to have a partition
key and row key.
I can put in a value and click on insert, and then we can keep on inserting entities into the table.
Again you'll do this from an application.
You will have an application that will be responsible for adding, modifying and removing entities from
the table itself.
In this chapter, quickly you want to go through the table service that's available in your Azure Storage
accounts.

--- Azure Premium Storage accounts ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Premium Base storage account.
So in addition to our normal general purpose V2 storage accounts, we can also create this premium storage
accounts.
When you create premium based storage accounts, your data is actually stored on high performance hardware
via the use of solid state drives.
Remember, in the end, the data within your storage account needs to be stored on some sort of storage
device.
Well, when it comes on to the premium storage accounts, your data is stored on solid state drives.
This means that you can access the data much more faster.
Because the solid state drives are fast in nature, you get low latency access to your data, but obviously
here you have a higher storage cost.
You have lower transaction cost when it comes onto normal storage accounts.
Now, these storage accounts when it comes to premium is available for your block blobs, your page
blobs, and your file shares.
So as an example, if I go on to creating a new storage account, let me go on to storage accounts and
choose to create a new storage account.
So I'll name the same resource group.
Just give a unique storage account name in North Europe in terms of the service.
Now let me choose Azure Files.
We have this option of standard or premium.
Let me choose premium.
And we get this provision capacity when it comes onto premium based storage account.
When it comes on to redundancy we only have the options of locally run and zone redundant storage.
Let me go on to review and create and create the storage account.
So let's wait till we have the storage account in place.
Now once we have the storage account in place I can go on to the resource.
Now here under data storage you'll only see file shares in place.
So we are not having any other service here.
We can only create a file share.
So again this is normal.
I can go and create a file share.
But here we have kind of better performance for the underlying data.
I won't enable backup.
I'll go on to review and create and let's create the premium file share.
So in the background it's just that the underlying storage that's used for storing your files is much
more faster in nature.
We could upload files again from our local machine.
I'm not creating any folder, I'm just uploading files quickly onto the file share itself if I go on
to browse, if I go on to each and every object, we have again the files in place or objects it's files.
So in this chapter.
So I just want to go on to the file share.
So in this chapter I just want to kind of go through this concept of having premium based storage accounts
in place.

--- Lab - Azure Storage Explorer ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through the Azure Storage Explorer.
This is a freely available client tool that you can use to access your Azure storage accounts from the
desktop.
So currently what we've been doing is we've been accessing our data within our storage accounts from
within the Azure portal itself.
But normally you might have users who just need to access the data within the storage account, and
they don't need to log onto the Azure portal as such.
What you can do is you can give them or they can download this client tool, and they can use this client
tool to connect onto Azure Storage accounts.
This client tool, Azure Storage Explorer I told you it's free of cost.
If I go onto the download part so we can download this for windows, it's available for Mac OS.
It's available for Linux.
Let me choose windows x64 and let me download the installer file.
This should be a very simple and straightforward installation.
Now once the download is complete, let me start the installation process or click on the file.
We can install it just for me only.
I'll accept the license agreement.
Click on install.
Click on next.
Since it is a very simple and straightforward installation, let's wait till the installation is complete.
Once done, we can launch the Azure Storage Explorer.
So here I have Azure Storage Explorer in place.
Now here we can sign in with our Azure account.
And we should be able to then see our storage accounts here in the Azure Storage Explorer.
But what I can also do is if I go onto the explorer, if I go on to storage accounts, I can right click
and connect onto Azure Storage.
This will give me a variety of ways in which we can connect onto our storage accounts.
So as an example, let me choose storage account or service.
Here we can connect using something known as a connection string.
We can connect using a shared access signature.
We can connect using an account name and a key.
So let me choose an account name and a key.
Click on next.
Let me go onto Azure.
Let me go on to my storage account.
So actually let me go on to the access keys section.
Remember, the access Keys section gives you two keys.
You can use either key to gain access to the data within the storage account itself.
Let me go on to key one.
Show the details.
Copy the key onto the clipboard and in the storage account.
Let me place the account key here.
Let me copy the storage account name.
Place it here.
So we have a display name as well.
I'll click on next and click on connect.
Now here we can see our storage account.
I should be able to see my blob containers.
I can go onto the containers.
I can see my folders I can see my files.
Here I have the ability to perform delete operations.
I have the ability to create new folders.
I can download objects.
I can upload files as objects.
So we can do everything from here itself from the Azure Storage Explorer.
I can also work with my file shares.
I can work with my queues.
I can work with my tables.
So the Azure Storage Explorer is a client tool that you can use to work with the data that you have
in your Azure Storage account.

--- Using the Azure storage explorer from a macOS system ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to showcase how we can use Azure Storage Explorer from a mac
OS device.
So you're on my Mac OS device.
I can download and I can go into the downloads section when it comes onto Azure Storage Explorer.
Let's download this for Mac OS.
I'll use the ARM architecture.
Now, once the download is complete, I can click on the file itself.
It's basically a zip file.
Here I have now Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer in place.
I can double click on this if you want.
You can copy this onto the applications.
I'll click on open.
And here again we have the Azure Storage Explorer.
Here I can right click and connect onto Azure Storage.
We have a set of options in place.
I can choose a storage account or a service.
We can connect using an account name and a key.
So if I go onto my storage accounts go on to an existing storage account.
You're under security networking.
I'll go on to access keys.
Let me first copy the name of the storage account onto the clipboard.
Go on the storage explorer.
Here, I click on next.
Put in the account name.
Then go back.
We can take either T1 or T2 to connect onto our storage account.
Let me show key one as an example.
Copy this onto the clipboard and let me paste the account key here.
Click on next.
Click on connect.
And here we should be connected onto our Azure Storage account.
Here we have the ability to see our data containers.
Within the containers we have the ability to upload objects onto the container.
We can download objects.
We can create new folders.
We can delete objects so on and so forth.
We can see our file shares in place.
We can see our queues and we can see our tables.
So quickly in this chapter I want to showcase how we can use Azure Storage Explorer from a mac OS device.

--- Example on a program interacting with Azure Storage Accounts ---

Now in this chapter I briefly want to showcase.
This is optional obviously, how we can have a program that can interact with an Azure storage account.
So normally you will have programs or applications.
You write code that can interact with these services in an Azure storage account.
Here I have an application that's based on debt.
Remember in the earlier section when we were working with Azure Web Apps, at that point in time, we
had installed Visual Studio Code and there had also installed the.
Net framework on our local machine.
So as an example, if you have that setup in place, what we can do is we can run this application locally
on our machine in Visual Studio Code.
This.
Net based application can actually interact with an Azure storage account a very very simple example.
But just to showcase that, yes, you can have applications that can work with your services in Azure.
So obviously I will make sure that this application folder is made available.
It's a zip based folder.
It'll be available as a resource attached onto this chapter.
You can download the zip file.
Then let's right click and extract all of the contents here itself.
I'll delete the application zip file.
Let me open up VS code on my local machine, Visual Studio Code.
Then I'll open up the temp folder.
So I'll go ahead and open the folder.
I'll open the temp two folder.
Click on select.
Here I have the application.
The name of the project is blob app.
If I go on to the program dot CSS file this program, it's based on the Microsoft documentation.
All this program does is it connects onto an Azure storage account, and it displays the objects which
are present in a particular container.
So as an example here, in order to connect on to the storage account, we will need to first change
the connection string.
So I'll delete this connection string that I have here in my program.
We can actually go on to.
Azure.
We go on to your storage account.
We can go on to access keys.
And here we should be able to take the connection string from either key one or key two.
Click on show for the connection string for key one.
I'll copy this onto the clipboard.
Go on to my program and place it here.
This connection string will allow my program to interact with my Azure storage account.
Let me go ahead and just enumerate now.
I only have I just go on to my storage account.
If I go on to my containers, let me just enumerate the data that I have in my scripts base container.
I only have one file, the main.tf file, but that's fine.
So in the container name I'll name it as scripts.
Let me save everything.
And since we have dotnet install, I can go ahead and run the project locally on this machine itself.
It's a simple console based application.
This application will use the connection string.
It will connect onto the storage account.
It should go onto my container.
And yes it's saying okay, this is the name of the blob that you have and this is the size.
So a very simple program, but I just want to showcase that we can go ahead and now write programs in
different programming languages that can interact with the data that we have in Azure Storage account.

--- Lab - AzCopy tool ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through a utility that you can use to copy blobs of files from,
let's say, a local machine onto your storage account.
This is known as the AC copy utility.
So you could have your system admins who could use the AC copy tool to copy files you know, from your
from the local machine or to the storage account.
Let's look at an example on using the AC copy tool.
First and foremost, we will need to download the tool on our local machine.
So we have the installation process that is available for Linux.
We can install it on a Linux machine.
We can also download the utility and work with it from Mac OS.
But currently I'm on a windows based system, so I'll choose windows 64 bit.
Let me save the file.
It's basically a zip based file.
It's actually in my downloads folder.
What I'll do is let me copy that file from the downloads folder.
All.
Copy.
On to one of my temporary directories.
Let me just bring it up here.
So in one of my temp directories, I've copied that zip file.
I can right click and extract the contents of the file here itself.
So just basically it's just a utility.
So let me copy this easy copy utility back onto the temp folder.
And that's all we need.
I'll delete the zip file and delete the folder.
We just need the Azcopy application.
And we can use this application now to work with the files on our local machine.
And let's say copy it onto an Azure storage account.
In order to make use of this utility, let's open up Command Prompt on our local machine.
So cmd let me go on to the temp folder.
So we can use the easy copy utility.
And there are various commands that we can execute.
I'll use one command wherein we can create a container using Easy Copy in our storage account.
So how can we do this.
Well first I need to provide what is the name of the storage account.
So let's say I want to create a new container within my Azure storage account that I have here.
So first we need the name of the container.
I'll just copy the name and right click on my mouse to copy the name here itself.
Then what is the service.
It is.blob.co dot windows dot net.
What is the name of the container that I want to create?
So I want to create a container with the name of Scripps a new container.
Now we need to append something else here.
I'm going to add you know, we need to add kind of a query string parameter here.
We need some sort of authorization to allow the ad copy utility to create the container in an Azure
storage accounts.
Now we've seen examples on how we could use the account key when it comes on to the AZ copy utility.
We need to make use of something known as shared access signatures.
So if I go on to, you know, under the security and networking, we have something known as a shared
access signature.
A shared access signature can be used to grant restricted access rights to your storage account resources.
So this is a more secure way to provide access to your clients to the data within your storage account.
Well, when it comes on to using the AZ copy utility, we need to make use of a shared access signature.
The way we'll do this is we're going to create a shared access signature right here itself.
We need to configure our signature here.
In terms of the allowed services, I will only allow the blob service because we are only interacting
with the blob service in our storage account.
In terms of the allowed resource types, I will choose the service.
I will choose a container.
I will choose the object in terms of the operations.
I can just remove delete.
I can remove immutable storage.
We don't need all of this.
And then we can mention a start an expiry date time for the signature.
So after the expiry date time, this signature which we're about to generate will become invalid.
So there's a lot of parameters that you can actually configure to generate this kind of password.
The sort of secret with the account key.
That secret.
That key gives you access to all of the data.
But here you can restrict which service you have access to.
Now scroll down and click on generate SaaS and Connection string.
We now have a connection string.
We have something known as a SAS token and we have the blob service SAS url.
I'm going to copy the SAS token onto the clipboard.
Go back onto the command prompt.
And here I'll right click on my mouse to paste in that shared access signature.
And then I'll hit on enter.
So it is giving me an error because in supporting https I put in http.
Here I need to put in https.
Secure shell secure protocol.
Sorry.
And now it is saying that it has gone ahead and created the resource.
What I'll do is in another tab.
Let me go on to the storage accounts.
Go on to my storage account.
My general purpose V2 storage account.
Go onto the containers and I should be able to see my newly created scripts base container in place.
So using the AZ copy utility, we are able to now create this new container.
Now using the AZ copy tool, let me copy a file.
So in this temp folder I have some files in place.
Let me go ahead and just copy this.
You know I have this Terraform configuration file.
You can go ahead and copy any file.
By the way I just have one file in place Main.tf.
This is a Terraform configuration file.
Let's copy this onto the container in our storage account using the AZ copy utility.
How do we copy this.
So we can again use the AZ copy command.
We can use now the parameter of copy.
So we're saying that we can copy the main.tf file from our local machine onto again.
Our storage account again.
Copy the name again.
Right click on my mouse.blob.co dot windows dot net slash scripts slash.
What is the name of the file.
Right.
So this is the name of the file that we're taking from the local machine right from the temp folder.
This is the name that we're giving to the object when it is uploaded.
Finally onto our container in our storage account.
And then we provide our shared access signature so I can copy the SAS token.
By the way, if you navigate away from the screen, you can always go ahead and create a new shared
access signature.
That's not a problem.
Um, hitting enter, it's saying that the file transfer is complete.
So let's confirm.
If I click on refresh for my scripts container, I can see my main.tf file in place.
So in this chapter I want to showcase how we can use the AZ copy utility to copy data from the local
machine onto the Azure storage account.

--- Lab - AzCopy tool - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Azure Data Box ---

In this chapter, I want to give this brief note when it comes on to Azure Data box.
So you have the normal data box SKU.
You also have the data box next gen.
But what exactly is a service all about?
Well this is a solution that allows you to send terabytes of data in and out of Azure in a quick and
inexpensive and a reliable way.
Companies might have a lot of data available in their on premises data center.
They then want to transfer that data onto Azure.
Let's say that you want to transfer a lot of data onto an Azure storage account.
Now yes, you can use Azure Storage Explorer.
You can use the Azure Copy Utility.
But we are talking about sending terabytes of data.
That's a lot of data.
If you try to send this data over the internet, over your bandwidth, it's going to be very, very
difficult.
You're going to get broken connections.
You won't be able to send all of the files.
It will be a lot of issues Use to send your data in a quick, inexpensive and reliable way.
You can make use of Azure Data Box.
What happens is why the Azure portal?
You will actually make an order for a data box device.
Then Microsoft will actually send you.
If I just scroll down, they will send you an entire data box, right.
So there's a picture here.
You can take this entire data box, connect it onto your on premises data center, copy the data that
you want to copy onto Azure onto the data box.
Send the data box back to Microsoft.
And then the data engineers at Microsoft would copy the data onto your Azure account.
So this is a very quick way to make sure that you can get terabytes of data from your on premises location
onto Azure.
I'll make sure to leave this page.
This link has a resource onto this chapter.
You can go to this to understand more about Azure Data Box Service.

--- Keeping a track on costs during the first 30 days of your Free Trial account ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through, you know, keeping a check on your costs.
Now, if you're using the Azure Free account for the first 30 days, remember you get that $200 worth
of free credit.
Now, let's say you worked on a set of services for the day, and you basically come in the next day,
log into Azure.
If you're using the Azure Free account for the first 30 days, you should get a notification on the
amount of credit that's remaining.
So I said, if you're using a service that does not come under the Azure free eligibility, whatever
costs are consumed by that service, it goes against the credit.
So here I can see this is the amount of credit that I have remaining.
If you want to see where these costs have been consumed, how have the cost been consumed by the services.
You can go on to your subscriptions.
Remember you have that Azure subscription in place.
You can see the current cost for the subscription.
Let me go on to it.
You're telling us that the free credit is going to expire in 24 days?
you get.
What is the current cost and what is the forecast?
Let me go ahead and click on View Details.
So viewing the details it's saying okay the service for which we have actually eaten up the most cost
is based on storage.
Let me go on to cost by resources.
Now please note that you know during the first four you know, few days.
Sorry, you might not get a breakdown when it comes onto cost analysis because it does take time.
Once you start using the services, then probably over time you'll get a breakdown when it comes onto
the cost that have been consumed by using services.
Now here I can see when it comes on to storage.
The cost was eaten up by my premium based storage account.
So in one of the chapters, I showcase how to provision a premium based storage account and I can see
the cost.
So in this chapter I briefly want to go through okay.
You know, you get notifications for how much credit is remaining.
At the same time, how can you go on to your subscription and look at the cost analysis?

--- Azure SQL Database service ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this section we're going to cover some of the database services that are available on the Azure
platform.
I first want to go through the Azure SQL Database Service.
Now you might be familiar with the concept of a relational database system.
Right.
We have some famous ones.
We have the popular relational database management systems of Oracle.
We have MySQL.
We have Microsoft SQL server.
What do you normally do is you would install either engine.
So for example you could install Microsoft SQL server as a database engine on a machine.
So let's say a VM and then you host a database.
You have tables in place.
For example, if you have an e-commerce application hosted on another system, the application could
access the database system, access the information within the tables.
You could have a table that has information about the various products that the e-commerce application
is selling, various orders being placed on the site, information about customers, so on and so forth.
So you could have this kind of setup in place wherein you have a database hosted on one compute machine,
and you have the application hosted on another machine.
When it comes on to the database system.
So you need to first of all download and install the database engine on a machine, then configure the
database engine, host a database, and then have the information right in the form of tables.
So from a database admin perspective we have some responsibilities, you know, wherein you need to
manage the uptime of the database server.
You would need to have database backups and restoration processes in place.
You would need to install patches at regular intervals, both at the OS level and the database engine
level.
Companies might not want the burden of actually managing the entire database system.
They would probably want to have a manage system in place a managed service.
Well, for this we can make use of the Azure SQL Database Service.
Here, the underlying database server and the database system is actually managed by the service itself.
So the service will provide the compute infrastructure like the virtual machine, whatever that will
be hosting the actual database engine.
What you can just do is you can just start working with the databases itself and hosting your tables
of information here.
The underlying server is managed for you.
The database software will be in place.
There are also features wherein it has automatic backup and restoration process in place, and there
are various other features.
So if you want to have a managed platform, a managed service in place wherein you have, you know,
you need to manage the underlying database infrastructure, we can make use of the Azure SQL Database
Service.
Now let's move on to the next chapter.
Let's look at an example on using this particular service.

--- Lab - Azure SQL Database ---

Right here we are in Azure.
Let's go ahead and create a resource based on Azure SQL Database Service.
So here in all resources I'll click on create.
We can search in the marketplace for the SQL Database Service.
So I'll go on to database and create a resource based on the service.
Now please know that the Azure SQL database Service is based on Microsoft SQL server.
If you want to use PostgreSQL, you do have options available on Azure.
If you want to use Oracle again, we do have some options in place.
But if you want to manage database service in which the underlying engine is based on Microsoft SQL
server, we'll use the Azure SQL Database service.
Currently, let me go ahead and create a new resource group For the database.
We can give a name for the database.
Now the database needs to be hosted on a server.
This particular wizard is going to create two resources for you.
One is a database and the other is a database server.
Now since this is a managed service, the database server will be managed for you.
You're the only thing that you need to mention is when you hit on Create new, you have to just give
a name for the database and a location.
Now we need to give a unique server name.
So if I just give db server it will say that the name is not available.
So again I normally append some numbers and the server name gets append with dot database dot windows
dot net.
Then we can choose the region.
So we are creating a database in the North Europe location.
How do you want to log into the database?
You need some credentials right.
We need to log onto the database server.
We can use SQL authentication or even Microsoft authentication.
Let me choose SQL authentication wherein we can mention our own username and password.
Now please note that when it comes to the password again, there are some constraints in place to make
sure that you mention a password that adheres to these constraints.
Once you mention a password I'll click on okay.
So all we're doing is we're mentioning the details about the database server.
The compute database server is going to be maintained by the service itself.
And it will create a database on the server.
So in the end you'll have a machine or a machine.
It will have Microsoft SQL server already installed.
And then you will have a database sitting on that server.
We're using it for dev purposes.
Now when it comes down to compute and storage.
I'll click on Configure Database.
Since this is a managed service, there are different ways in which we can tell the service okay, what
type of hardware do we need to allocate to the underlying machine?
See in the end we need a machine that has CPUs in place that has memory in place to host our database
engine.
There are different service tiers in place.
You have something known as the V Corps Base Purchasing model, wherein you can mention the number of
virtual cores, but I'm going to choose something known as the Daegu Base Purchasing model.
So currently there are some which are not available.
Since it's the first month of my Azure free account, we don't get access onto all of the different
services, but that's fine for us.
What we'll do is we'll choose the DTU.
DTU stands for Database Transaction Units.
This kind of a blended measure when it comes onto CPU and memory.
I'll choose basic because that's good enough for us.
And in basic, actually, the estimated cost per month will be around 5 USD, so it's good for us.
We have a max data size of two gigs.
That's fine.
I'll click on apply.
We've configured our database kind of compute and storage.
Now in terms of the backup redundancy I don't need that much redundancy because this is just a simple
demo.
So I'll choose locally redundant backup storage.
Go to networking.
Now in networking I'm going to choose a public endpoint.
The Azure SQL Database Service is a public service.
If we want to connect from our laptop onto the database server, we need to make sure that the endpoint
is enabled, the public endpoint.
And we can also say that please allow my client IP address to access this database server.
For the database server you get kind of a lightweight firewall in place.
So you get a server firewall that is used to limit the connections onto the database server.
Because in the end, you are going to be hosting data on a database.
But you can have sensitive information within the database.
So you want to limit connections, right.
You were just saying that okay.
For the firewall which is again managed for you, please add a rule to allow my client IP address to
be able to connect to the SQL database server.
I'll click on next for security.
Leave everything as it is I won't configure anything.
Additional settings.
Now if you want you can have a sample database in place but leave it as none.
Go on.
Tags.
Go on review and create.
And let's go ahead and create our database.
Now please note that this particular wizard is going to create two resources for you.
One is a SQL database server and the other is a SQL database.
This will just take a couple of minutes.
What we'll do is let's wait for some time.
I'll come back.
Let's move on to the next chapter.

--- Lab - Azure SQL Database - Adding data ---

Now I've come back.
After some time, I can see my deployment is complete.
I can go on to the resource.
And what this will do is this will take me on to my database resource.
We can see that our database is hosted on a database server.
And again we can see different aspects about the database itself in another tab.
If I go onto all resources I can see that I have my SQL server and I have my SQL database.
If I actually go on to the SQL server itself, it has its own attributes.
So this is the compute infrastructure that is being managed for you.
Here you have the server name, you have the server admin name, so on and so forth.
If you go on to actually go on to security and go onto networking here, you will see that the public
endpoint has been enabled and you would have your private IP address and you would have your client
IP address added has a firewall rule.
And that's it.
Once you have a database in place, you can start creating tables adding information.
So as an example here there is a query editor which is in preview within the browser itself.
I can mention the password that I had configured when creating the database system.
We can go ahead and just hide this.
You're saying that the client with IP address is not allowed.
Let me copy this address.
Sometimes you know when you're working from a company setup, you could have these issues wherein it
does not detect properly the client IP address.
So here it's saying another IP address.
Let me go ahead and just add this as an additional rule and click on save.
Wizard should normally detect what is your underlying IP address.
So this is the IP address not of your client machine.
Probably it will probably be a centralized router.
That is routing information from your internal network onto the public service.
But if you do get this error just go ahead and make sure that you add this IP address onto that rule.
The firewall rule.
Let's try this again.
Let me click on okay to see if we can log in with our username and password.
Right.
And we are done here we get a very simple view of our tables.
We don't have any tables in place, views, stored procedures.
We can always use tools at a SQL Server Management studio.
You can use Visual Studio code to actually log into your database and add information.
Work with it.
Just as a simple example, I can issue a command to create a simple table.
I have a table name.
Of course I have columns of the course ID, the course name and the rating.
We can go ahead and run this query here itself.
This will create the table.
I'll then add information to actually insert rows of information within the table.
So just adding different query statements.
Just query statements wherein I'm adding three rows of information.
Let me run this.
This is also done.
And then finally we can do a select star from our course table and we'll see our information.
So that's it.
Our database is being managed by the service itself.
We can go ahead and start creating tables adding information okay.
Now that we're done I'll go on to all resources.
And I delete my resources accordingly.

--- Lab - Azure SQL Database - Adding data - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Azure Database for MySQL ---

Now in the prior chapter, given an example of using the Azure SQL database service just to showcase
that, we do have manage platforms as a service for other database engines as well.
I want to showcase an example on how we can create a resource based on Azure database for MySQL.
So MySQL is another popular database engine.
There again, if you want to make use of MySQL you would need to have a VM in place.
Install MySQL, configure MySQL.
Well, if you want a managed platform, we have Azure database for MySQL in place.
So in all resources again let me click on create.
Let's search for.
Azure database for MySQL.
So I can see it here we can choose Azure Database for MySQL flexible server.
Let's create a resource based on The Azure database for MySQL under the flexible server.
I'll click on Advanced Create.
We now have a wizard in which we can configure the different aspects.
I'll choose my existing resource group.
I'll need to give a unique.
I'll need to give a unique server name.
In North Europe.
This is the current version that we can choose from.
So we have the version eight.
That's fine.
We want it for development.
Here we can configure the server in terms of compute and storage.
I mean this is fine in terms of one virtual core and two gigs of Ram.
You can see it's also coming under the free tier eligibility in terms of both compute and storage.
So it's good for us.
Scroll down now in terms of the authentication We can choose the authentication method as again either
MySQL, Microsoft Enter, or both.
I'll choose MySQL authentication, give a username and a password.
Go to networking.
Allow public access some allowing public access to this resource through the internet via a public IP
address.
Here let me add the current client IP address as well.
So there is again kind of a lightweight firewall for the MySQL database server.
Go on next for security I won't modify anything here.
Go on tags.
Go on to review and create.
And let's go ahead and click on create.
So what we're doing here is we are kind of building a resource based on MySQL.
Now, in order to connect onto MySQL, we can use a number of client tools.
The client tool that I'm going to use is the MySQL workbench.
You can download and install this client for free.
Just going on to the download for MySQL workbench.
So there's an MSI install available for windows based systems.
We click on the download button.
I'll just say no thanks.
Just start my download.
So we can use a number of client tools to connect on to the MySQL database engine.
So when it came on to Azure Database, the Azure SQL database that was based on Microsoft SQL server.
There was an inbuilt query editor in which we could fire queries against the database engine.
We can also use tools like Visual Studio.
We could use SQL Server Management Studio to connect on to that database system here.
Now we have a different database engine.
We have MySQL.
So we have to use MySQL based client tools to work with the database engine.
So I can see that the download is complete.
It's a very simple and straightforward installation.
Let me start the installation process.
A very simple wizard.
I'll click on.
Next.
Leave the destination folder as it is.
Click on next.
You know make sure all of the features are installed.
Click on next.
And finally click on install.
It should install the MySQL workbench.
You're saying that the deployment has failed.
When it comes on to MySQL.
Let's look at the error details.
So saying that the region is not supported.
Okay if that's the case.
So let's do one thing.
Let me go on to all resources just to see.
Okay.
Nothing got deployed.
So let's try this again.
It's good that we get these errors.
You know sometimes you can get errors on the Azure platform.
And again the region is not supported.
Probably because we are using the Azure free account during the first month.
There could be some limitations.
So what we'll do is let's try this again.
Go on to Advanced Create.
Choose my resource group and give a server name.
Unique server name.
In terms of the region, I'm hoping that East US should be fine.
Let's choose East US again.
The same MySQL version, the same compute and storage.
Provide username and password for.
Authentication.
In public IP address.
Let's add the client IP address security tags.
Review and create and click on create again.
Let's try this again.
Okay here it's starting the installation of the MySQL workbench as well.
Now again if you have limitations in which you cannot install the tool on your local machine.
Let's launch MySQL workbench right now.
That's fine if you have limitations again don't worry.
Just go through this video on, you know, having a brief idea that we can yes, create manage platform
systems based on other database systems.
Right.
I want to showcase how we can create another type of resource.
Note again, I'm getting an error.
I'm not sure what's the problem.
I go on to error details again.
It's just saying probably the region is not supported.
What I'll do is just for now.
I mean, like it's not telling me what region is supported when it comes onto.
The flexible server.
So what we'll do is, um, let's do one thing.
Let me log in onto one of my other Azure accounts.
I said I just want to showcase that what we can do in terms of building another database system.
Now, what I've done is I've gone on to one of my other Azure accounts.
I've been able to deploy a resource based on MySQL.
If I go on to the MySQL server itself, what we can do now is we can connect on to MySQL database server.
I can copy the server name in MySQL workbench.
I can create a new connection Can give the connection name as a server name itself in the host.
I'll give the server name and give the user name SQL admin.
Click on okay.
Then it creates a connection.
I can click on this to connect.
It shouldn't prompt me for the password.
Now in case if you are not able to connect because I can see that I don't think we can connect.
That will be because of the firewall rule which is in place.
It's giving me an error saying that it cannot connect.
So what I'll do is let me go on to the settings of networking.
So this is for the MySQL server.
Let me add the client IP address and see if this helps.
Sometimes it's to do with the rules in terms of the firewall that's attached onto the server itself.
This could limit connections, and it's kind of good when things don't work your way.
It gives you an idea on, you know, trying out different features when it comes onto the service itself.
Okay, let's now try out and see if we can establish a connection.
I'll click on this again to see if it's opening up the SQL editor again.
If it's taking time, don't think it's working.
Let me see if I get the error.
One second.
Let me wait for a few seconds to see if it's indeed an issue with the connection again.
So again, it's giving me the same error.
So I don't think the rule is okay.
So now when I click on it again I'm able to connect.
It's giving me the dialog box for the password.
Let me enter the password.
And now why the SQL workbench, we are connected onto the MySQL database server and now we can execute
queries.
You know what we can do first is we can create a database.
And what happens is that the wizard only creates the MySQL database server.
It does not create the database.
It's different from Azure SQL in Azure SQL.
It creates both the database server and the database.
Next I can use the context of the database and then we can create a table a simple table.
So I'm creating a simple table of customer in which I have the customer ID and customer name.
Then I can add rows of information using insert statements.
Then finally we can select the data from the table.
And then we're getting the information accordingly.
Again this was a long exercise.
But you know it's good to run into issues when it comes to working with Azure based services.
You learn more then.

--- Azure Database for MySQL - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- About Azure Cosmos DB ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give a brief introduction onto the next service that we're going to
be seeing when it comes on to databases.
And that's Azure Cosmos DB.
Now Azure Cosmos DB primarily the engine is based on NoSQL, but we have other APIs in place as well.
So first and foremost, I want to give a quick introduction on what exactly is NoSQL.
We're all familiar with relational database systems.
We have seen an example of the Azure SQL database, which is a cloud managed platform for Microsoft
SQL server.
When it comes on to a relational database system, normally you would have tables in place.
These tables have a schema in which you define the column names.
You define the column types.
You would probably have relationships between tables within a database engine.
Hence the entire purpose of having a relational database system in place.
So primarily, you know, in the past you would have applications that would only work with relational
database systems.
Over time, they came requirements wherein applications didn't need to have or work with relational
data.
They just want to have the ability to store large amounts of data.
This did not need to be based on transactions.
Just have the ability to store and access large amounts of data.
No relationships required and no kind of predefined schema.
You know, in today's world, you have data that's probably coming in from a variety of systems.
And this data comes in in all shapes and sizes.
Nothing is fixed.
There's no structure.
So I said over time, you know, there was a requirement wherein you need to have kind of database engines
that could work with data that's flexible in nature, that does not need to conform to any sort of schema.
And also you don't need to have any sort of relationships between the tables itself, between the data.
So for this, you know, we have the advent of NoSQL databases.
So there are some familiar ones.
There are some famous ones.
We have MongoDB that was used or that can be used for, you know, basically storing documents within
a database, not necessarily in the form of tables.
And it's now this, you know, NoSQL databases that are very popular nowadays and are being used by
applications when it comes to data storage and data retrieval.
Now we come on to Azure Cosmos DB.
So Azure Cosmos DB is a fully managed NoSQL relational and vector database.
So there's a lot that has been added initially when it came onto Azure Cosmos DB the focus was NoSQL,
but there is a lot of functionality that's been added onto the service itself.
So if you wanted to have a NoSQL data store similar to a database engine, what you need to do is you
need to have, first of all, a compute machine in place on that machine, install the NoSQL engine.
So for example, if you're using MongoDB, you would need to download the MongoDB software installed
on a machine, configure it, and then maintain that infrastructure with Azure Cosmos DB.
Again, the entire infrastructure, the physical, the virtual infrastructure is managed for you.
You directly start storing data and working with the data.
You get also fast access to your data.
That is also another important concept.
Now with Azure Cosmos DB.
The other thing is when you create a cosmos DB account, you can choose from a variety of APIs if you
want the traditional NoSQL SQL data store.
You can use the no SQL API.
Here the data is stored in document format and you can query for items using the very familiar Structured
Query Language.
If you already have an existing MongoDB database in place and you want to migrate onto Azure, you can
make use of Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB.
So when you create your Azure Cosmos DB account, you can decide what API to use for the underlying
account.
Based on the API, you can store your data accordingly.
You also have an API for Postgres SQL, which is another popular relational database system.
And we have support for Apache Cassandra.
We have Gremlin, which is a graph based database, and we also have the table API, which is quite
similar to the table service that we have within Azure Storage accounts.
So first and foremost I want to give a quick introduction onto Azure Cosmos DB.

--- Lab - Azure Cosmos DB - SQL API ---

I am in my Azure account.
Now.
If you want to work with Azure Cosmos DB within all resources, I can click on create.
We can search for the cosmos DB service.
Let me create a resource based on the service.
Now here it's telling us that we can choose from the recommended APIs.
We are going to be choosing NoSQL.
This is the base one.
But if you want to host a MongoDB database, you can choose Azure Cosmos DB.
For MongoDB.
We have the other APIs as well.
So we have the table API, PostgreSQL.
We have Gremlin and we have Apache Cassandra.
Let me go and choose the API of NoSQL.
So depending upon the API that you choose you can store that type of data.
So if you choose MongoDB you can choose database on the MongoDB database engine.
Click on create.
When it comes to Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL, now we have the wizard that will guide us through the configuration
of something known as an Azure Cosmos DB account.
And don't get confused.
This is just a name given for the resource.
Based on that service, we are not creating a completely different account, just a name.
We are creating one that's based on the NoSQL API.
In terms of the workload type, I'll choose learning choose my resource group.
I will need to give a unique account name for Azure Cosmos DB for the resource.
In terms of my location, I only have two locations in place.
Okay, let me go ahead and choose East us two.
That's fine.
We are using provisioned throughput so there are different capacity modes.
The good thing is we get something known as Azure Cosmos DB free tier, in which we get something known
as a thousand request units and 25 gigs of storage for free.
So how do you get charged when it comes on Azure Cosmos DB?
Again, various parameters.
The main ones are something known as request units.
So this is the amount of capacity that will be allocated based on the amounts of reads and writes that
you do for your database.
So normally when it comes onto a database engine there are two important aspects.
One is obviously the storage itself, right.
The amount of storage that's required to store your data.
The other thing is the amount of compute that can be allocated, the amount of IO that can be allocated
when it comes on to reading and writing data.
So normally for database, what's very important is reading data from the database and then writing
data.
So there's a blended measure of compute that has been assigned or that will get assigned onto Azure
Cosmos DB onto your account.
And that blended measure is known as request units.
So we'll apply that free tier discount for us.
That's good.
I will not change anything in the subsequent screens.
I'll just go on to review and create.
And let's go ahead and create our account a basically our resource.
So here I'm getting a validation error.
It's saying this location is not available.
So it's a little bit strange in terms of what locations I'm getting, because I should be getting all
of the locations.
Let's enable availability zones and check if that makes a difference onto our locations.
At the moment it seems to be stuck in terms of the location.
What I'll do is I'll let me go on to a new tab.
I want to make sure that I get, you know, additional locations in place.
Sometimes I do get this issue wherein it does not give me all of the possible locations.
So let me choose Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL.
I don't think it should be a problem.
Okay.
What I'll do is in terms of the workload type, I'll choose development test and that should be fine
because we will be using the.
Free account that is available the free tier.
So just give again a unique account name.
Again let me enable this.
And um now I can see a little bit of more regions.
So in terms of the locations, since I don't have North Europe in place, let me go ahead and choose
UK South.
That is also fine.
Again, we'll choose provision throughput making use of the free tier discount.
Leave the other aspects as they are.
Let's go on review and create and see if we can create our cosmos DB account.
Right now it's done.
Let me click on create.
I'll just take a couple of minutes.
Let's wait till we have the account in place.
The resource in place.
Now once you have the Azure Cosmos DB account in place, let me go on to resource.
So there's only one resource that gets created and that is your Azure Cosmos DB account.
And we can start adding data.
I can go on to the data explorer here in the Data Explorer.
The first thing that we can do is to add something known as a database to hold our data.
So let me go ahead and create a new database.
I'm in the data Explorer and give a simple name for the database.
Click on okay.
Then once you have the database in place, we can go ahead and create something known as a container.
Within the container we can start adding our documents.
So we have our database in place.
Now I'll choose to create a new container.
I'll use my existing database in terms of my container.
Let's say I'm storing information about customers.
So I'll just give a name for the container.
There is something known as the partition key.
You know within the NoSQL database we're going to be storing a lot of information to make searching
of data much more simpler, much more easier, much more efficient when it comes to Azure Cosmos DB.
You can choose which particular attribute of your items behaves as the partition key.
Your data can then be split across multiple partitions, and when you want to search for data, you
will search for either based on a partition key.
It makes it much more easier, much more efficient to search for data.
Now in my dataset, which I'm going to add in a moment's time, I'm going to be adding information about
customers.
So I'm going to have attributes of a customer ID, a customer name, and a customer city.
So for me I'm going to put my partition key has the customer city.
You'll choose the container throughput as manual so we can distribute the request units which have been
linked at an account level.
We can distribute across the various containers.
We can have various containers within a database.
Again don't worry about the estimated cost per hour.
Remember this is all coming under that Azure free tier of Azure Cosmos DB.
So that's good.
I'll go ahead and click on okay to create the container.
Now once you have the container in place, what I'll do is let me go ahead and just hide this.
If you go onto the container we can now start adding items.
So if I go onto items I can say let's go ahead and create a new item.
No items here are in the form of JSON based documents.
I say this is a NoSQL data store.
It's very different when it comes onto relational database engine when it comes on to a relational database
engine.
We are familiar with creating tables that have columns that have data types, and then using the insert
statement to insert data.
Here we can add documents JSON based documents.
These are nothing but simple key value pairs.
So here I'm adding one document that kind of represents one row of information in which I'm specifying
let's say a customer ID.
So I'm saying I'm adding information about customers.
So I'm just giving customer ID customer name and the customer city.
Here the customer city is the partition key.
I'll click on save.
And when you do this, it has saved the information has a document.
Cosmos DB has also added its own system level attributes as well on the document.
Again, we don't have to dwell too deep into this.
If you want to learn more about cosmos DB, there is a separate certification for that, or else you
can go ahead and study for the AZ 204 exam, where we also focus on Azure Cosmos DB.
And that's it.
You know, your application can formulate these documents of information and submit them onto cosmos
DB.
So in this chapter briefly want to go through how we can work with Azure Cosmos DB service.
Now that we're done, since I only have one resource in place, I can go on to the overview and we can
delete our account.
And skip the feedback.
Just give the account name.
And click on delete.
Right.
That's it.

--- Lab - Azure Cosmos DB - SQL API - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Enterprise Data Engineering ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in the prior set of chapters, we had looked at some of the database engines that are available
on Azure.
In the next set of chapters, I want to go through some of these services that can be used from a data
engineering perspective.
First and foremost, I want to give a note on some of the important concepts when it comes onto the
entire, you know, what services or what tools do you require when it comes on to the entire data engineering
process itself?
So first is building a data lake.
What you can do is, you know, in today's world, we have data coming in from a variety of data sources.
We have data coming in at a high rate.
We have data coming in in different types, having different schemas.
What we can do is we can take all of that data.
So whether it be structured data, whether it be semi-structured data, whether it be unstructured data,
and we can store all of that data within a data lake a huge expanse.
Now from here we can take in that raw data, we can transform that data.
Or if you have structured data that's coming in, you can use tools to kind of create reports, perform
data science, perform machine learning, so on and so forth.
So first is the data lake.
The next thing is the entire ETL process.
So when you have data coming in onto your data lake, if you have raw data, what you'll want to do
is you will want to go ahead and extract data that's relevant.
You would want to perform some sort of transformation because the data is in raw format.
So you might want to only select certain types of data, certain amounts of data.
You would want to restructure the data.
You might want to filter the data clean the data.
You want to enrich the data in such a way that it adds business value.
So in the end, businesses want to take in the data and add value.
They want to get reports they want to perform analysis on the data.
So the entire ETL process is built around extracting data, transforming the data, and then loading
it onto a data destination.
You can load the data onto a data warehouse.
A data warehouse is nothing.
You know, it's like a database system.
It's based on SQL.
And again, your data is based in the form of tables.
So you have a SQL engine that drives the querying of data from a data warehouse.
But within a data warehouse the focus is more on gaining insights from the data.
If you look at a traditional relational database system, that database system is used more from a transactional
aspect.
You have applications that are reading and writing data onto a database system.
But from a data warehouse perspective, what you do is you feed in historical data onto the data warehouse,
and then you start extracting insights based on the historical data you query for data, you build reports
out of the data.
So you take the ETL process, you extract the raw information, you transform it, and you can place
it within a data warehouse.
Then we have the concept of a data lake house.
The data Lake house is is put into place to provide the benefits of a data warehouse.
The benefits of a data lake.
The problems with the data lake is because you have so much data coming in from different streams,
different types, different schemas.
Governance becomes a headache in terms of governing the data with a data warehouse.
It's not cheap.
So database systems are very expensive if you want to host a data warehouse.
So what you can do is, you know, nowadays companies have this concept of a data lake House, which
is meant to give you the best of both worlds, give you the best of, you know, having a data warehouse
in place and a data lake now within Azure.
What you can do is you can use Azure Data Lake Gen two storage accounts when it comes onto your data
lake.
You can use tools such as a stream ad job.
You can use pipelines in Azure Data Factory or Azure Synapse to take in your streaming data and place
it in a data lake.
You can use services like Azure Databricks.
You can use the Apache Spark engine within Azure Databricks or within Azure Synapse to take in and transform
your data.
And what else can we do?
We can then serve our data, you know, take our data and serve it.
Why a SQL data warehouse.
But you can do Azure Synapse and build reports.
We now also have Microsoft Fabric, which is a software as a solution in which you can ingest your data.
You have the use of pipelines, you can build data warehouses, you can build lakehouses, you can use
power BI.
It's kind of a one stop shop for, you know, all of your data engineering needs.
Now, what we're going to do is we're going to have a very, very brief overview on using some of these
services when it comes on to.
And we're going to look at Azure Data Lake Gen two, look at Azure Synapse and look at Azure Data Factory.
When it comes to Microsoft Fabric I have entire courses.
So we have the DP 600 exam that focuses on fabric and power BI.
And then we have the DP seven exam that focuses on data engineering.
Let's have I said a quick overview just from the perspective of the AZ nine exam in the subsequent chapters.

--- Lab - Enterprise Data Engineering - Building the data lake ---

Now I just want to go through, you know, very simple.
Just a few of these services that you can use from a data engineering perspective.
Please note that this is a very, very simple overview.
I do have courses in which we go into detail when it comes to data engineering.
So I have one that was specifically catered to the DP 203 exam.
I have new courses when it comes to using Microsoft Fabric, so we can use Microsoft Fabric as a software
as a service solution for all data engineering needs.
I just want to go through, you know, very simple on some of the services that we can use from a data
engineering perspective.
First, what we'll do is let's build an Azure storage account that can behave as an Azure Data Lake
Gen2 storage account.
If you want to have a data lake in place in Azure in which you can ingest your data, we can build something
known as Azure Data Lake Gen2 Storage account.
So within my Azure account Out.
We can go on to storage accounts, something that we can do.
And here I can say, let's create a brand new storage account.
I can choose an existing resource group.
I will need to give a unique storage account name.
So this is the wizard for creating a storage account.
We've already seen this earlier on.
Leave the region as it is.
Choose the service as Azure Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake.
Scroll down.
In terms of redundancy, I'll choose locally redundant storage or click on next.
Now in this particular screen, what I'm going to do is I'm going to enable this hierarchical namespace.
By doing this we are now adding the functionality of Azure Data Lake Storage Gen two on top of our storage
account.
And that's it.
If I click on next, or if I just go on to review and create.
We should be able to now use the Data Lake features.
You know, in terms of Azure storage.
Let me create this account and let's come back once we have the account in place.
Now once you have the Azure storage account in place I can go on to the resource.
And from here I can go on to the.
Here.
Then I can go on to data storage.
We can go on to containers.
So the concept still remains the same.
I can add a container.
Let me add a data container.
And within this data container just for now let me upload a file that I have on my local machine.
So here we have the ability now to add directories onto our container.
I'll click on upload.
I have a file on my local machine.
And don't worry I will also make sure that this file is available as a resource on this chapter.
This is a comma separated file.
There is information about sales orders.
Please know that I have taken this information from a sample database that's available from Microsoft.
So Microsoft has a sample database of Adventureworks.
From there I have gone ahead and, you know, taken some data and put on to CSV base file.
I use this in many other files information when it comes onto sample databases.
I said in my other courses here, just to give kind of an overview on what we can do when it comes to
hosting data.
I have this sample file in place as a comma separate file.
I can choose this file, click on the upload button.
And now we have the file in place right.
So now we have the file within our Azure Data Lake storage account.
For now let's mark an end to this chapter.
For now, let's mark an end on this chapter and move on to the next.

--- Lab - Enterprise Data Engineering - Building the data warehouse ---

Now in the prior chapter, I deployed a storage account and we added that functionality of Data Lake.
It's nothing but giving us a space in which we can ingest raw data.
Now I want to go through an example on how you can host a data warehouse within Azure.
We can host a data warehouse by using Azure Synapse service in another tab.
Let me go onto all resources.
And here let me create a new resource.
I'm going to search for synapse in the marketplace.
I want Azure Synapse Analytics.
Let's create a resource based on this particular service.
In the wizard I'll choose my existing resource group.
I need to give something known as a workspace name.
So we have to create something known as a workspace.
It needs to be unique.
Now you are saying that the Microsoft Synapse needs to be registered with the Subscription.
So what we need to do is I will need to go on to my subscriptions.
Go onto the subscription itself under settings.
I'll go on to resource providers.
And in the resource provider let me search for the provider of synapse.
So for Microsoft Synapse let me click on this and click on the register option.
Let's wait till the registration process is complete.
Then we should be able to create a resource based on this particular service.
Now once the registration is complete, let's try the process again of creating a resource based on
Azure Synapse.
So again in the marketplace let me search for the particular service.
Let's create a resource based on the service itself.
Choose my resource group.
Give a workspace name.
So I don't seem to be getting that error anymore.
In North Europe, so that's fine.
No, I need a data lake storage account that's required by synapse.
Since I already have a data lake account in place, let me go ahead and reuse the same account.
I'll say let's create a new file system within the account just for synapse.
Go on to security.
We have the authentication method.
This can be used to now log into the data warehouse that we're going to build later on.
As part of this workspace we have the SQL admin login.
I'll mention my own password.
I'm not going too much in detail in terms of I said these services, when you go for a full fledged
data engineering course, they will learn more about okay, how do we build a data warehouse?
What are the different types of tables that we create?
What exactly is the purpose of a data lake?
How do we ingest data?
How do we transform data.
So on and so forth.
Here I'm just going through a very simple example in which I want to create a data warehouse in which
we can ingest data.
Our data is already present within an Azure storage account.
I'll leave the other settings as they are.
Go on to View and Create and let's create a workspace.
I'll click on create and let's come back once we have the workspace in place.
Now once the deployment is complete, if I go on all resources here, I should be able to see my synapse
workspace.
The next step is I'm going to go on to the pools, and I'm going to define a new SQL pool by creating
something known as a dedicated SQL pool.
We have the ability to now have a SQL data warehouse in place.
Here.
I can just give a name for the pool.
I'm going to leave.
The performance level has the least, so something based on data warehousing units.
Go on to additional settings.
Leave everything as it is.
Go on to review and create and see if we can create a dedicated SQL pool.
So I can see that I am not able to click on the create button.
So let's try this again.
What I want is I want to be able to.
Create my dedicated SQL pool.
So let me go on to all resources.
Again.
Let me put this in a different tab just to refresh everything.
So in the end I want to be able to build a dedicated SQL pool within my workspace.
This should allow me to host a SQL data warehouse.
So let's try this again.
I'll go on to the SQL pools.
Click on Create New.
Give a name.
Go on to view and create.
And now I am able to create the pool.
So I'll click on the create button.
Now please note that I'm just showcasing a demo on how we can use some of these services when it comes
onto the entire data engineering landscape.
When it comes on to building.
So what I'm doing is within Azure Synapse, I am creating something known as a dedicated SQL pool for
you all.
You know, at this point in time, I don't recommend going with creating the dedicated SQL pool.
The reason for this is, you know, I'm creating a SQL pool based on the least, you know, provisioning
units when it comes to data warehousing.
If you go on to the pricing for Azure Synapse.
So here I am on the pricing for Azure Synapse.
And I'm going on to data warehousing under data warehousing.
When you look at the dedicated SQL pool, I said I am using the least amount of data warehousing units.
You can see that there's a hefty cost per month.
Now again, for us, we are only going to be using it for a few minutes, but still in the end it's
around 2 USD $2 per hour.
So there is a price to pay, and I don't believe that this comes under the free tier.
So for you all, you all don't need to go through this entire exercise.
But I said if you want, you can.
I said, I'm just going to be using this for a few minutes.
And also whatever costs are borne by using these services, remember it will go against that $200 worth
of free credit.
And what I'll do is I'm going to wait for the deployment to complete and then come back in the next
chapter.
Let's look at using Azure Data Factory to transfer our data from our storage account onto the SQL Data
Warehouse.

--- Lab - Enterprise Data Engineering - Getting data onto the warehouse ---

So I've come back.
The deployment of the dedicated SQL pool is complete.
Now to quickly do is let me go on to my synapse workspace.
Within the synapse workspace, I should be able to.
If I scroll down, I can open something known as the Synapse Studio.
So this is an integrated environment that's available within the browser itself, in which we can query
for data within the data warehouse.
We can build SQL scripts, we can build notebooks, so on and so forth.
If I just go on to the data section under MySQL database, I can see my DB pool.
So this is my data warehouse.
Currently I don't have any tables in place.
What we'll do is let's use another service.
Let me go on to another tab in all resources.
I'm going to create a resource based on the service of Azure Data Factory.
Azure Data Factory is a data Orchestration tool.
You know, I talked about ETL.
You can use this tool to extract data, transform data and load it onto a destination data store.
I'll just give a unique name for the data factory resource.
Choose my location.
Go next.
Again, very simple.
I'm not trying to change anything.
The first step is to create the data factory resource and once you have the resource in place, what
we can do is we can open the graphical user interface in which we can start building pipelines within
factory.
These pipelines can be used to take data from the source, perform transformations, and load it on
to a destination.
What I want to do is very, very simple.
I want to take the data that we uploaded earlier on our sales order header information that's based
in a CSV file.
I want to transfer it on to my DB pool within my synapse workspace.
So I'll go ahead and create my data factory resource.
And let's come back once we have the resource in place.
Now once I have the data factory resource in place, I'll go on to the resource itself.
I want to go onto Azure Data Factory.
I can then launch the Azure Data Factory studio.
Within the studio.
We can start I said building pipelines.
These pipelines can be used to take in data from the source, perform transformations, and load it
on to a destination.
I want to keep my workflow very simple, wherein I take my data from Azure Data Lake and load it onto
my dedicated SQL pool.
I'm going to make use of the wizards that's available in Azure Data Factory.
I'm going to say I want to copy data at scale.
So I want to ingest data.
I'll click on this.
This will open up a wizard in which we can now Use the built in copy task to copy data from a source
onto the destination.
I'll say yes, I want to run this task once right now.
I'll click on next.
I now need to establish a connection onto my source.
Now my source of data is my Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
In the factory.
I'm going to create a new connection.
When you're creating a connection, you will see that you can connect onto data sources, not only in
Azure.
We can connect to data sources in Amazon as well and other software as a service providers.
I want to search for Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.
Click on the continue button.
I need to give a name for the connection.
What I'll do is, uh, let me give the same name as my storage account.
Scroll down, choose my subscription, choose my storage account name.
Click on the create button.
So all we're doing right now is we are creating a connection onto our Azure Data Lake Gen two storage
account.
Once we have the connection in place, I'm going to click on the browse button.
In the browse button I should be able to browse for.
I can go onto my data container.
I can select my CSV file.
I'll click on okay, then I'll click on next.
So we're using this kind of wizard to help us to build kind of a workflow, a pipeline to copy our data.
So this wizard has detected that it is a comma separated file.
We can preview the data and we can see the data as it is.
So that's fine I'll do.
Next is uh let me click on next.
Now it's asking us to build a connection onto our destination.
My destination is my DB pool in Azure Synapse.
So I'll say let's build a new connection now.
This new connection is going to be Azure Synapse.
So Azure Synapse Analytics click on continue.
We now need to build kind of a new.
Connection.
So what I'll do is I'll just quickly take the name of the synapse workspace.
I mean you can give any name.
That's fine.
I'll choose my subscription.
Choose my workspace.
Choose my database name which will be DB pool.
And we can authenticate.
So if I go back to all resources, let me go on to the synapse workspace.
I want to copy in the overview.
What is the SQL admin username?
Because we need to authenticate right.
So I'll give the username and then give my password.
Let me test the connection just to make sure it's working as expected.
So that's fine.
I'll click on create.
So now we are creating a connection onto our destination.
Now what this will do is it will go ahead and create a new table sales order header within the dedicated
SQL pool.
Because we don't have any tables in our SQL data warehouse.
I'll click on next.
It will do kind of a column mapping from the source onto the destination.
So whatever columns are there in the CSV file it will create these same columns in the destination table.
I will click on next.
So it's creating a pipeline with this particular name.
Basically a task here I won't enable staging.
And in the copy method I'll choose a bulk insert.
It's an easier way.
And then I'll click on next.
Click on next.
And now what it's doing is it's creating a pipeline that will copy data from my Azure Data Lake storage
account or Azure Synapse at the same time.
In between, it's creating that compute environment that's required to transfer the data.
Because in the end, you need memory to load the data from the source.
You would need some kind of script to take the data and load it onto a destination.
Everything.
You don't have to write any scripts.
You don't have to write any code.
Everything is being done for you by Azure Data Factory.
Azure Data Factory is taking the data from the source and it'll load it onto the destination.
I can click on finish.
I can go on to the monitor section wherein I can monitor my pipeline.
It should run in no time.
If I just collapse this, we can click on refresh so you can see it's already done.
And how do we verify over here I should be able to click on refresh.
For my SQL database on the tables I can see my sales order header table in place.
I can go on to the context menu and select the top 100 rows.
And then I should see my information according.
So what we've done so far is very, very simple.
We have taken data from our CSV file and load it onto a SQL data warehouse.
Okay, now that we are done, what I'm going to do is quickly okay, let me close this.
Go on to all of my resources.
Except for my data lake.
I'm going to go ahead and delete the other resources.
And this marks the end of this chapter.

--- Enterprise Data Engineering - Using Azure Databricks ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through a service known as Azure Databricks.
Now, Databricks itself is a company that provides a platform for developing and maintaining enterprise
grade data solutions.
The creators of spark.
Spark has a very popular engine that is used for processing data.
But the creators of spark went ahead and created the Databricks platform.
With Databricks, you can go ahead and ingest data.
You can process data, you can work with SQL, you can use machine learning.
You can create visualizations.
They also initially created the concept of the Data Lake House, in which you get the benefits of transactional
support.
Where you have atomic transactions in place, you have consistency, you have isolation and your durability.
You can have data that's coming in in different data formats.
You can ingest data, keep track of data assets, and you have the power of structure of your data as
well.
So just to quickly go through how we can use this particular service in Azure.
I'm going to create a new resource.
This resource is going to be based on Azure Databricks.
So I'll search for Azure Databricks.
Let's go and create a resource based on the service.
Choose an existing resource group.
I'll need to give a unique.
Workspace name in North Europe in terms of pricing.
We have a trial pricing tier in place.
Let me go ahead and choose that.
I'll go on the next one.
Networking encryption securing compliance tags review and create.
And let's go ahead and create our workspace.
I'll click on create and let's come back.
Once you have the workspace in place you know after we get the workspace, we will need to go onto the
Databricks user interface.
Then in the Databricks user interface, we're going to create a compute environment that's going to
have spark installed.
So I told you spark is a very popular engine that can be used for working with data, can be used for
transforming and processing data within Azure Databricks.
We can create that sort of environment in which we can make use of the spark engine when it comes onto
working with data.
So I said, let's wait till we have the workspace ready.
And once we have that, we'll go on to the Databricks UI.
And from there we'll move on ahead.
Now under the workspace defined I'll go on to Databricks Workspace.
I'll then launch the workspace itself.
This will open up another tab in which we will be directed onto the UI for Databricks.
And from here we can take it forward in which we're going to build.
I said, first of all, a compute environment that's going to spark in place.
Here, let me go on to compute and let's say that and let's go ahead and create a new compute environment.
I'll choose single node in terms of the policy okay.
It's going to be compute.
There'll be a Databricks runtime version in place.
And in terms of the number of cores.
So the minimum number of cores is four cores.
That's the minimum that we have in terms of the number of minutes of inactivity I said what are we trying
to build is we're trying to build a cluster, very simple cluster in which we're going to have machines
in place.
So we're going to have one driver machine that will have four cores of CPU and 14 gigs of memory on
this machine.
We're going to have spark installed.
We're going to have other libraries, runtimes, tools in place that will allow us to process data.
Let's see if we can create the compute machine.
So I'll click on Create Compute.
Once we have the compute cluster in place then we can go ahead and create a notebook.
A notebook is an interactive way in which you can write code that can actually work with data.
What I want to do is I want to kind of use an interactive way in which you can work with a sales order
header data that we have within our Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
So let's wait till we have the cluster in place.
Now, while creating the cluster, I ran into an issue and the issue was because the particular instance
size, the virtual machine size.
Remember that here the compute cluster in the end is spinning up a virtual machine.
That virtual machine will have spark install, and then we can run our code on that spark cluster.
But I was getting an error wherein the cluster would not start up.
I would get a red dot.
That means.
And if you'd seen the error message, it would say that it's not able to run or create a machine based
on that particular VM size in that particular region.
So what I did is for the cluster, first of all, I clicked on the edit button option right?
I click on edit.
Then here I change the policy to unrestricted.
Then in terms of the access mode I kept it as dedicated I the Databricks runtime version.
Then in the node type.
Okay, after experimenting a lot, I've chosen the node type of standard underscore DC for a s underscore
v5, and then I clicked on save.
If I click on cancel.
So now there's a terminate button.
But then we could start the cluster again.
So now I have the cluster in the running state.
So if you are getting the same error please go ahead and click on the edit button.
Make the required setting changes.
The configuration changes so that you have the cluster in place, but again only if you're following
along.
It's not required for you all from the exam perspective.
To understand how do we create a cluster in Azure Databricks?
But just to showcase what we can do with the service?
A very quick look.
I want to have a cluster in place.
Now that I have a cluster in place, I am going to click on new and choose to create a new notebook.
This is an interactive way in which you can write code.
That code can actually run now on that compute cluster.
So we get a notebook here in place.
In the notebook.
You can start writing code within these cells.
So there are different cells in notebook.
And one of the advantages is the notebooks or spark as such, has support for a variety of programming
languages.
So by default we have Python.
We can write Python code.
We also have Scala, we have R, or we could also write SQL.
What I do is I said I'm going to write simple code here in the notebook, which is going to read data
within my Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
Let's remember within our Data Lake storage account, we have our CSV file in place in our container.
So I'm going to write some code.
First and foremost I'm going to add in code wherein I'm having a variable which has the location of
our file.
Now in terms of the format of the URL, this is the name of the storage account I'm putting dot dfs
dot net because this is a daily Gen2 storage account.
I'm putting what is the name of my file?
And this is the name of the container.
Next, in order for Azure Databricks to access our storage account, we need to provide.
As an example here, not the recommended approach, but just to make things very simple, we need to
give some way, some sort of password, some sort of secret so that the notebook in Databricks can access
the data within our Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
Now, one thing that we can do is if we go on to our storage account, I can go on to security.
Here we have something known as access keys.
We can use access keys to give other services, other users complete access to our data within our storage
account.
We are not recommended from a security perspective.
There are better ways in which you can give access.
But since we are beginners when it comes onto the Azure platform, I'm trying to make everything as
simple as possible.
Here you can take either T1 or T2.
It's like a password.
It's like a secret.
If I click on show here, I can see a long string.
Right.
This is kind of a password or a key that allows another user to basically gain access to the data within
our storage account.
I will copy the key onto the clipboard.
Right.
We have this facility of copying it onto the clipboard and then I'll place it here.
Right.
So I'm passing in the key for our Azure Data Lake storage account.
So make sure that you change the storage account name here as well.
I'm going to connect on to my cluster.
And we can then run this code cell so I can click on run here.
Now we are running Python code on our cluster.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Okay.
This is done.
Nothing has come up as the output because I'm not doing anything.
All I'm doing is I'm specifying a file location and feeding in or setting kind of a variable in the
context of spark, saying that for this data lake storage account, please use this access key to gain
entry onto our data.
I can add additional code cells or to this notebook.
I'm going to add in another code cell.
Now in this code cell I'm using functions that are available within spark.
We can use these functions to actually read CSV files.
So we are reading the data within the files and loading it onto something known as a data frame.
And then I'm using another function to display the contents of the data frame.
So it's like we're reading the contents of the file and loading it in memory of spark.
Then as a data engineer, once you have the data in spark in memory, you can use more and more functions
to start transforming your data.
So now you can see that we have that data in place that's present in our CSV base files.
And there is so much of functionality available within spark.
So as an example, if I add another code cell, you know, probably as a SQL developer, you'll be familiar
with the group by clause where you can group your results.
Well, we can also group our results.
When it comes onto spark you're using select I'm only using the columns of interest.
And I'm grouping all of my data based on the customer ID.
So within my data set there is a particular column known as customer ID.
Let's say you want to know the number of orders that have been placed per customer.
So I'm grouping all of my results based on the customer ID.
I'm loading it onto a new data frame and displaying that data frame accordingly.
I'll run this code cell.
There's a lot that you can do.
And when it comes to data engineering, there's a lot that you can do when it comes to working with
your data.
here.
I'm giving a very it's like a drop in the ocean in terms of the functionality that's available.
And, you know, we get the results accordingly.
So in this chapter I want to kind of go through this kind of very small thing of how we can use Azure
Databricks.
In the end, we are using a spark cluster that's being provided by the platform to actually process
our data.
Okay, now that we are done, just to make sure that we don't bear any sort of costs, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to go onto all resources and delete all of my resources so I can see a lot of resources
in place.
And these resources, these compute, uh, you know, these resources when it comes to compute, is
all based on the Azure Databricks service.
I will delete my resources to complete this particular chapter.

--- Lab - Azure Databricks - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- A sample architecture - use case 1 ---

-: Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter and in the next, I just wanna go
through some kind of sample architectures.
Very, very simple.
Based on what we have learned so far,
based on our understanding on Azure-based services,
I just wanna kind of go through some options here
when it comes onto hosting a web application.
Obviously when you go for more advanced courses,
you will be able to learn
about architecting solutions on Azure.
So you have so many services on offer,
your company will be having requirements in place
for hosting an application.
You'll take those requirements, map it on a design,
and then see what services to use.
And how do you architect using the services
that Azure has to offer?
Here, I wanna give a very, very simple approach on
what are the options available when it comes under
hosting a very, very simple web application.
So let's say that you have a web application,
and this web application accesses data within a database.
When it comes onto the web application,
you might opt to have or use a virtual machine.
Maybe you have a third party web application
that needs to be installed.
It cannot be used on Azure web app.
You don't have the source code.
It's an external application.
So the only option for you is to go
and install it on a virtual machine.
So you can go ahead and use this approach.
Next when it comes onto the database,
maybe using a third party database, a legacy,
or an old database engine.
And again, that's not supported on the current
Azure services.
It could be a really legacy database.
And you have to install that database system on,
again, a virtual machine.
So you need full
and complete control over the underlying compute
infrastructure so that you can log in with admin rights
and install the web application,
install the database engine.
Here what you're doing is you are basically using
infrastructure as a service throughout,
wherein you are using compute machines.
Again here, remember that you need
to manage the underlying virtual machines,
manage high availability.
Maybe you can make use of available zones,
manage the patches, so on and so forth.
And also, I said maybe from a security perspective,
also, there is a mandate that you need
to manage the underlying machines,
the compute infrastructure,
because you need to have security hardened rules in place
to manage the compute.
This could be another reason as to why you might opt
for this particular approach,
wherein you have virtual machines
for hosting your application.
Next, we could use both infrastructure
and platform as a service if you do have the code base
for your application.
And if its support has one of the programming frameworks
in Azure web apps.
You can host your web application using Azure web apps.
And yes, you can still have your database
on a virtual machine.
This still works.
Your Azure web app can still communicate with the database
on the virtual machine itself.
Or you have the option
of going completely platform as a service wherein
your web application is hosted on an Azure web app
and your database is hosted on
maybe Azure database or MySQL.
So if you have a MySQL-based database,
you can use this particular approach.
And then finally, you have an option
when you have a hybrid setup.
So maybe you cannot host the database on Azure.
Maybe you have a corporate database,
and it's not possible, maybe from a security perspective
to move this database onto Azure.
So you need to have a hybrid model wherein
you have your application on Azure
and it needs to talk to your database server
in your corporate data center.
Something that you can also do,
but you need to make sure that you have the right
connections in place.
So there are various options that you can actually use
when it comes onto hosting a web application.
Again, not completely extensive,
but then based on our beginner level course,
based on our kind of understanding on
what we can do when it comes onto using services,
we wanna kind of go through a simple architecture.

--- A sample architecture - use case 2 ---

So in this chapter, I just want to go through another very simple architecture that you can use for
your application.
Here let's say that you have a web application again hosted on a virtual machine.
Now this web application accepts users uploading videos so users can upload videos onto the site when
users upload the videos.
Obviously the web application needs to store the video somewhere.
What you can do is has a storage service for the videos.
You can use the blob service within an Azure storage account.
So you can program the web application in such a way that when a user uploads a video, you transfer
the video onto a container within the blob service within an Azure storage account.
Now let's say that the video needs to be processed.
Maybe you need to create a minimized version of the video.
You need to change the, um, the size, the compression, so on and so forth.
You need to process the video in some form or the other.
What you can do is when a video is uploaded by a user, after the application adds the video onto the
blob service within a container, the application can also send a message onto the queue service that
can also reside within the storage account.
This message would contain details about the video that needs to be processed.
Then you can have another code block.
This could probably run using Azure Functions actually.
This code can pick up the messages from the queue and then based on the message, it can go ahead and
process the videos.
And then maybe the details about the videos itself can be stored.
This could be done by the application or the application component.
It could be stored using the table service again within Azure Storage accounts.
So in this chapter I want to give just another example on having an architecture, this time using a
blend of virtual machines and Azure storage.

--- Benefits of the cloud - High Availability ---

So now in this section, I want to go through some of the important cloud concepts based on the objectives
of the exam.
The first thing I want to cover is this concept of high availability.
So you will hear of terms like high availability, fault tolerance, elasticity, scalability, so on
and so forth.
What is high availability.
So this is ensuring that the application that you deploy is made available with the minimum amount of
downtime based on various issues.
So let's consider a very simple use case scenario wherein you have a web application hosted on an Azure
VM.
Right.
Users are accessing the web application, and this application is accessing an Azure SQL database as
a backend data store.
Now what happens if the web application goes down?
Well, your end users are not happy.
Your operations team can get flooded with calls from users, and the entire business loses confidence
in the company if that company is responsible for maintaining the application.
Now, there are so many reasons as to why the application could go down.
A very simple case is maybe an update.
You know, a newer version was published for the application code.
Now, because of that new update, it caused some issue in the application itself, right?
It could cause a memory leak in the act.
So it could cause a performance issue or a memory leak in the application.
And then because of that extended usage, the application goes down.
Or maybe an update, a security patch was applied at the OS level on the virtual machine level.
Now because of that patch update, it caused an issue.
It can, you know, it cause an issue in a library being used by the application, an application library.
So again the application goes down.
So this is from the application side.
From the Azure site.
Maybe the physical server hosting the virtual machine ran into technical issues and had to be restarted.
There was an issue for the overall Azure SQL database service in the region the database is hosted in.
So you have various issues that can arise when it comes on to an application going down.
When you're looking at high availability, you're looking at implementing high availability at the infrastructure
level.
We've already seen from Azure VMs how we can avoid this, how we can avoid our infrastructure going
down.
Here are.
The best case is to make sure that you implement your web application across a set of virtual machines,
and if you're implementing your application across a set of virtual machines, you can ensure that those
virtual machines are made part of availability sets or they are across multiple availability zones.
So here, if a physical server had to go down in terms of an availability set, your application would
still be available.
If an entire data center were to go down and you still want to make your application available, you
want to make your infrastructure highly available.
Then you would distribute your infrastructure, your virtual machines across various availability zones.
Obviously, at an application level, you can implement procedures to roll back onto a prior working
application version.
And when it comes onto the Azure SQL database, you also have a number of options in place from the
service itself.
So the service itself is actually built already for high availability.
But they do have other options in place here for each and every part of your application landscape.
You have to see where the application can go down, and I need to see how you can add measures to your
application landscape to increase its availability.
So in this chapter, I quickly want to go through the concept of high availability.

--- Benefits of the cloud - Scalability ---

So in the prior chapter we looked at the concept of high availability.
In this chapter I want to go through the concept of scalability.
Now this is the ability of a system to scale based on demand.
Now we've seen in Azure, when it comes on to the various services that are present, there is a lot
of flexibility.
There is a lot of, you know, you have the ability to actually scale on demand.
The most simplest example is when it comes on to a virtual machine.
When it comes on to the size of the virtual machine, we can see that we can scale the size of the machine
at any point in time.
So at any point in time, we can increase the VM size.
So we get more virtual CPUs and more Ram for the system itself.
At any point in time, we can also decrease the size of the machine.
It all depends upon the demand.
It all depends upon our requirement.
Even for the Azure Web App Service or the Azure Web App Service is linked on to something known as the
App Service Plan.
So even for the App Service plan, we have the ability to scale on demand.
So we can choose from a variety of various SKUs that are available.
So for example, if we want to migrate away from the free SKUs, that we get more features and more
hardware for our web applications, we can go on to other SKUs such as the basic SKU or the standard
SKU.
And we know about the service which we had covered earlier on the virtual machine scale set.
This allows us to provision an identical set of machines, and here we can set scaling conditions to
scale out and scale in the machines in the set based on metrics.
So in this chapter I quickly want to go through the concept of scalability on the cloud.

--- Benefits of the cloud - Disaster recovery ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the concept of disaster recovery.
This refers to the ability to recover from either a service failure or a region failure as an example.
So let's say that you are making use of the Azure VM service and storage accounts, and you're hosting
these or making use of these resources in the East US location.
Now let's say that the entire east location goes down.
So you don't have any infrastructure in place to support these applications or to support your data.
What you can do is you can make sure that your infrastructure, when it comes onto your virtual machines
and your storage accounts, are available in another location.
There are services on Azure that can constantly replicate the data from the primary region onto the
secondary.
So in case if the primary region goes down, you can quickly spin up your or have your infrastructure
ready and in place and with the most recent data right in another location.
So there are these tools in place.
But what we have to remember is from a costing perspective, right.
There is an increase in cost because then you need to maintain your infrastructure in both the primary
and the secondary location.
In this chapter, briefly want to go to the concept when it comes onto disaster recovery.

--- Benefits of the cloud - Elasticity ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the concept when it comes on to elasticity.
So within a cloud platform, this is the ability for you to basically, you know, kind of scale based
on demand.
One thing is, you know, how flexible is the cloud platform when it comes to services that are being
offered?
When it comes onto the pricing, when it comes onto growing the infrastructure.
So with Azure or any cloud platform, you have this pay as you go pricing that makes it simple to kind
of, you know.
Create more infrastructure based on demand.
At the same time, you can shrink your infrastructure and then you only pay based on how much you consume.
So if an application needs, let's say, another VM as part of that infrastructure setup, it's quite
simple.
Go onto Azure and create the VM.
So by being elastic in nature you increase the overall agility of your application.
Because instead of actually worrying on how do you provision the underlying infrastructure, you can
add more focus just on the business and the application features.
So in this chapter, briefly want to go to the concept when it comes on to elasticity.

--- Benefits of the cloud - Fault tolerance ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the concept when it comes onto fault tolerance.
There are, you know, some similar aspects when it comes on to all of these concepts.
When it comes onto the benefits of using a cloud platform, fault tolerance is kind of it's quite similar
when it comes onto high availability.
You know, here you are trying to figure out how do you make your application landscape tolerant to
faults at different layers.
So again, in the previous use case, if I just tell you that we have, let's say a, consider a web
application running on an Azure VM and that application connects onto an Azure SQL database, and you
have users on the internet who are accessing the application.
So when it comes to onto high availability, we focus on the infrastructure level components.
But I told you that fault tolerance, you know, there could be faults that could come up at different
levels of your application architecture.
So you could have probably a network failure where in the application cannot talk onto the database.
So this, you know, how would your application react to such a fault.
Or I told you if an update was published onto an application and the application goes down because of
the update.
So how would you what process do you have?
What procedure do you have to go and recover from that fault?
So fault tolerance is just the fact that how tolerant is your entire application landscape tolerant
to faults at different layers.

--- Cloud service model ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the aspects when it comes on to cloud service model.
Now we have seen how to use services like Azure Virtual Machine Service, how we could use the Azure
SQL database Service, how we could use let's say Azure Cosmos DB.
Now in all of these services, there are some aspects that you have to maintain.
There are certain aspects that you just could get started using the service.
So for example we came onto Azure Cosmos DB.
Then you don't need to maintain the physical or the virtual infrastructure.
You can directly go onto the interface the data explorer, create your database, create your container
and start adding your data.
These are services come under these you know overarching cloud service models.
So we have infrastructure as a service.
We have platform as a service.
And we have software as a service to kind of distinguish between these different models.
We have these different layers.
So if you're looking at the entire, you know, architecture of an application, where in you have the
application itself, you have the data, right?
The application is using if the application is based, let's say on dotnet, so you have the runtime
for the application itself, you have the OS itself.
You have then at the physical layer you have the virtualization, the physical servers, the physical
storage and the physical networking.
So all of these are the different layers when it comes on to hosting an application and having data
in place.
When it comes on to infrastructure as a service, the cloud provider is responsible for the physical
hardware.
So the virtualization, the servers, the storage, networking, so on and so forth.
As a customer, we are responsible for like for example, Azure VMs is an example of infrastructure
as a service.
So there we provision the virtual machine.
We decide on the OS for the machine itself.
We are responsible for patching the OS, you know, applying these security patches at the OS level.
So Microsoft will ensure that patching is done for the physical servers, the security patches.
But at the virtual machine level, it is our responsibility to ensure that we patch we install the main
security patches at the OS level.
We are then responsible for hosting the application, installing the required runtime, installing the
application, and then storing the data.
And this is from the broad level when it comes on to infrastructure as a service then we have platform
as a service.
Now in platform as a service, the cloud provider is now they have the additional responsibility of
maintaining even the virtual infrastructure.
So they would maintain the operating system.
They would maintain the patching on a regular basis for the OS itself.
They also are responsible for the runtime.
So as an example, if you look at the Azure SQL Database Service.
This is an example of a platform as a service.
There you saw that in addition to the physical infrastructure, even the compute infrastructure is managed
by Azure.
All you have to do is to start working with the database itself.
That's it.
You start working with the data.
The underlying database engine is installed and configured for you.
The patching, even at the database level, is managed by the service itself.
And then finally we have software as a service where everything is managed basically by the vendor.
You just start basically using the application.
That's it.
An example is Microsoft 365.
So if we look at using let's say office or even using email right.
In the end all you have to do is just use the application.
Right.
And the data.
That's it.
You are not responsible for installing or configuring the application, maintaining the infrastructure.
Nothing.
Everything is done by the cloud provider itself.
So in this chapter briefly we want to go through the cloud service model.

--- Cloud model types ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through the different cloud model types.
The first one is what we're working with.
We are working with Azure.
We are working with a public cloud service.
This is a platform that's available over the internet.
So your customers can use a portion of the cloud when it comes onto their hosting requirements with
Azure.
We've seen that we have you know, we don't need to have any capital expenditure in place.
So there's a reduction in capital investment.
We have a pay as you go pricing model wherein we pay based on how much we use.
We have the ability to scale on demand whenever required, and we can always make use of the latest
services that Azure has to offer.
So these are some of the key benefits when it comes on to using a public cloud platform.
Next we have the concept of a private cloud.
Now within a private cloud, a company might set up kind of a cloud environment within their own data
center, or they might use another data center that's being managed by another provider.
But in the end, it's kind of a private data center.
It's only for the company itself.
You're again, they have services that are made available for them.
the benefits are that the company can implement their own security protocols.
They own and manage the entire infrastructure, and these services are only available for the company
users.
The downsides are since they now manage the physical infrastructure, if they do need to scale the infrastructure,
they would need to buy physical hardware.
And the next is difficult to cover.
You know, all of the new services offered by public cloud providers.
So it's not so simple.
If you have a new kind of software that you need to implement, it's not so easy to provide as a service.
And then next we have kind of a hybrid setup wherein you can make the best of both worlds.
So a company could use the public cloud offering for hosting a set of applications.
And they could host another set of applications on their private cloud network.
So here you get the best of both worlds.
You can have security in place.
You know, the right security protocols for certain applications in the private cloud.
And when you want to scale based on demand, when you want to make use of public cloud platforms, you
can make use of, let's say, Azure as a cloud platform.
Well, in this chapter, I just want to go through something known as the cloud model types.

--- Economies of scale ---

Instructor: In this chapter,
I briefly wanna go through some concept
when it comes on to costing for services on Azure
or on a cloud platform.
This is based on the objectives of the exam,
and I'm terming this under the chapter
of economics of scale.
So if you look at the basics,
the economies of scale relates to the ability
to carry out tasks more efficiently
or at a lower-cost per unit when operating at a large scale.
So if you look at a cloud platform,
they have so many services,
they have so much physical hardware,
there's so much infrastructure,
and at the same time, obviously,
they are getting more and more customers onboard
to use their services.
So when you start getting more and more customers
to actually use services on the cloud,
when you get more customers
to use the physical hardware, because in the end,
in the Azure data centers,
Microsoft needs to make that initial investment
to buy the physical hardware,
the storage, the networking, maintain the data centers.
They're doing everything themselves, right?
And they're providing a service to you.
So when the demand, when the customer demand increases,
cloud providers can then get hardware at discounted prices.
This becomes a benefit then in the end to the customer,
wherein the discounts they get
can be passed onto the customer itself.
So if the number of customers increases,
then there can be significant changes to the service costs.
The service costs can actually go down.
Now, some other concepts.
One is the concept of having capital expenditure in place.
Your money is paid upfront.
For example, I said, let's say that a company,
you know, does not use a cloud
and they wanna host applications
in their on-premises data centers.
So initially, they would need to pay,
they would need to invest money
to buy service for hosting the application.
They would need to invest in storage, right,
for storage of data, so this involves storage costs.
If they need to host,
you know, some third party vendor applications,
some softwares, they would need to purchase licenses.
Sometimes these also come under capital expenditure.
And then you have the data center costs, you know,
you have various aspects that can add up
to the entire capital expenditure for the company itself.
And then we have the operational expenditure.
This is the ongoing money spent on expenses.
So for example, the human resources that are required to,
let's say, maintain the data centers,
the hardware maintenance itself on the physical machines,
the software support, and even the other data center costs.
So you have data center costs,
the initial investment for the data center itself,
and then you have the ongoing expense for the people
who need to maintain the data center,
the cooling costs, et cetera.
So in this chapter, I wanna go through
some few important concepts
from the perspective of the exam
when it comes on to costing.

--- Shared Responsibility Model ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the shared responsibility model.
In the last chapter, we talked about the different cloud service models in which we have infrastructure
as a service, we have platform as a service, and we have software as a service.
And in all of those cases I mentioned, you know, what is the responsibility of the cloud provider
and what is our responsibility.
So who maintains what.
So when it comes on to infrastructure as a service, the physical infrastructure is taken care by the
cloud provider.
We are responsible for the virtual machine.
We are responsible for the applications, so on and so forth.
So Microsoft has clearly, you know, kind of told us, okay, what is the shared responsibility model.
But what is Microsoft responsible as the cloud provider and what are we responsible.
What is our responsibilities?
You can go on to this documentation link if you want to learn more about the shared responsibility model.
So again the responsibility depends upon whether we are using the software as a service, whether we're
using platform as a service, whether we're using infrastructure as a service, or whether the company
is hosting everything in their on premises data center.
So as an example, if you look at infrastructure as a service, I mentioned this earlier on.
If you take the case of virtual machines.
So Azure is responsible for maintaining the underlying Azure data center wherein they maintain the servers.
They are responsible for the physical security to the building to the data center itself.
They are responsible for the personnel.
They are responsible for the Ethernet switches, for the power supply, for the cooling, all these
physical layer aspects.
We are responsible for the virtual machine.
So I said we are responsible for what we install on the machine.
We are responsible for maintaining the machine, applying the required patches at the OS level.
We are responsible for the data that we store on the VM itself.
So Microsoft is not responsible for the data that we store on the VM.
We are responsible.
So as a customer, we should be well aware of the clear delineation of responsibilities when it comes
onto Microsoft and when it comes onto ourselves.
You know, when you're looking at these different cloud service models.

--- Azure Traffic Manager ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to have an introduction onto the Azure Traffic Manager service.
So this is a DNS based load balancer.
You have the ability to distribute traffic across public endpoints.
And those endpoints could be spread across different Azure regions.
This is different when it comes onto the Azure Load Balancing service which we had seen earlier on.
So that load balancers traffic at the network level with Azure Traffic Manager you could have public
endpoints.
You could have internet facing endpoints.
This could be within Azure.
You could also have your web applications exposed as endpoints within your on premises data center.
And you can distribute traffic via the use of Azure Traffic Manager.
Now, Azure Traffic Manager directs the client request to the respective endpoints via the use of different
traffic routing methods.
Now there is support for different endpoints.
We have Azure endpoints.
These represent the services that are hosted within Azure.
We have external endpoints.
These represent services that are hosted outside of Azure.
So an example is a public facing web application hosted in your on premises data center.
Then we have nested endpoints.
So these represents a combination of traffic manager profiles.
Then within traffic manager you can configure endpoint monitoring.
Your traffic manager can constantly monitor the endpoint to make sure the endpoint is healthy.
See the traffic manager profile should not route a request onto an unresponsive endpoint.
Now, I said that the Azure Traffic Manager service can actually route traffic based on different routing
methods.
So as an example, there is something known as the priority routing method.
This is what we're going to see when we look at a lab in Azure Traffic Manager.
Let's say that a company has a web application hosted on an Azure Web app.
Let's say that the Azure Web App Service is hosted in the best US location.
Then the company would host the same web application.
The exactly same web application on another Azure Web app.
This time this would be located in the East US location.
When users actually hit the application, the request would go via something known as a Traffic Manager
profile.
I said, here we are going to use the priority routing method.
So when you use this, the Azure Web app that is hosted in the West US location would have a priority
of one.
So when you choose this routing method, the web application running in the west US location would have
a priority of one.
That means all requests from the users would be directed onto this web application.
Now let's consider the extreme condition where in the entire west US location becomes unavailable.
That means the web application is not available.
What the traffic manager profile will do is it will detect that indeed, the web application in West
US is not available based on the priority routing method.
It would now route requests from the users onto the web application running in the east US location.
So this is like having an active passive setup in place for high availability.
Here if one endpoint goes down.
So here our endpoints are the web applications running in their respective regions.
So if one endpoint were to go down traffic manager can actually route requests onto another endpoint.
So this is done in an automated way.
Instead of you trying to monitor whether web applications are going down or not, the traffic manager
profile can automatically detect the health of an endpoint and direct requests accordingly.
And I told you there are many routing methods in place.
This was an example on the priority routing method.
There is another routing method known as the weighted routing method.
Here again you can take the example of two web applications running in respective regions.
Here you can put a weightage for each of the endpoints.
So here for example, if you keep a weight of 50% for both endpoints, then the user traffic would be
equally distributed across the web applications.
This is like having an active active setup in place wherein both endpoints are being used.
So in this chapter, first and foremost I want to give an introduction onto the Traffic Manager service.

--- Lab - Azure Traffic Manager - Setup ---

So now let's look at an example on using the Azure Traffic Manager service.
For this first what we'll do is we'll deploy to Azure Web Apps.
Now these web apps are going to be in two separate regions.
So I'm going to deploy one web app in the North Europe location and another one in UK South.
Now these web apps can be part of the same resource group.
That's fine.
Each web app will need a separate app service plan.
Remember, for Azure Web applications, you also need to have an App Service plan in place.
The App Service plan would dictate what features are available to the web applications, and what is
the hardware that's available to the applications as well.
Now, when using the Traffic Manager service, we will need to ensure that the App Service plan is based
on the standard App Service plan.
It's only the standard App Service plan and higher.
There are support when it comes to Auto routing with Azure Traffic Manager.
So let's go to Azure first and build our web applications.
So within my Azure account what I'll do is let me choose to create a new resource.
What I'll do is I can go on to app services and we can create a new web app.
Now currently I don't have any resource groups in place.
Let me create a new one.
Just name this as services GRP.
You can give any name.
Let me give a unique name for the.
Let me give a unique name for the web application.
I won't set a unique default hostname in terms of the code.
Let me keep it as dotnet eight part of windows.
In the region let me choose North Europe.
Now obviously for you all you can choose other regions.
So for example, you could choose one region as best us and another region as East us.
It's up to you.
Just make sure that the web applications are part of different regions.
Now if I scroll down, I told you we you know, for web applications we can make use of the free app
service plan.
But in order for web applications to sit behind Azure Traffic Manager, we will need to make sure that
we use an App Service plan of standard or higher.
Now, yes, there is a cost linked onto using the standard App Service plan, but you are only charged
based on how much you use.
And we're only going to be using the web application for a very short duration of time.
If you have that $200 worth of free credit, whatever charge comes up here will go against that $200
worth of free credit.
If you don't have the credit in place And if you are scared of kind of running a cost for creating the
web application, at least go through this video so that you have an idea on the traffic manager service
itself.
Okay, I'll go on to the expert database.
Leave it as it is.
Deployment is fine.
Networking is fine.
Monitor and secure is fine.
We don't need the application insights resource.
So I'll just click on no for application insights.
Not required.
I'll go on to review and create and create the web application itself.
So this is our primary web application.
I'll click on create.
What I'll do is let me right click on App Services and open the link in a new tab.
We can actually go ahead and deploy our secondary web application.
This can be part of our same resource group and it will be part of, you know, another region.
I'll click on create for a web app.
Choose my existing resource group.
This time I'll give a name of secondary web app.
Again, I don't need a unique default host name.
Remember, if these web application names are not available, just play around with the numbers so that
you get a unique name for the web app itself.
Again, in terms of the runtime stack, I'll choose dotnet eight.
In the region this time I'll choose a different region.
Let me choose a region of UK South.
Again in terms of the pricing plan.
So this will create a new app service plan in this particular region.
Again I'll have to choose standard.
Again you can see what is the estimated cost per month.
But you will not be charged this cost upfront right now itself your only charge based on how much you
use.
And again, the same set of steps.
Let's go on to mod and Secure and just make sure we don't have an Application Insights resource in place.
Go on review and create and create this web app as well.
Now going back let's see what are we going to do next once we have our web applications in place?
What I'll do is I'm going to create kind of a default HTML page as part of both web applications.
So let's go ahead and do that right now.
So before deploying the traffic manager profile let me see if my first web application right.
It is in place.
So we can go on to the Azure Web app.
Go on to the development tools.
On the development tools.
Let me open up the App Service Editor and in the App Service Editor, which is in preview currently.
Let me open up the editor so it'll open up a link in a new tab.
Now, what this allows us to do is it allows us to create kind of files on the underlying compute system
that is hosting this web application.
So remember in the end, the web app is a platform as a service where in the physical infrastructure
the virtual infrastructure is managed for you.
At the same time, that virtual infrastructure, the compute machine that is hosting your web application
via the use of the App Service will already have, let's say, Internet Information services, since
we have chosen windows as the platform for the App service.
So there'll be internet information services already in place on the machine that allows you to host
web applications.
And this particular explorer is giving you the view of the file system when it comes on to internet
Information services itself.
So what I can do is see what I can do is I can right click choose to create a new file.
Let me name this as default dot HTML.
So what I'm doing right here is when we create sorry let me just rename this.
So when we do create this file, this file has actually been created on the underlying compute system
that is hosting the web application.
Just add some simple HTML code.
I'll say this is the primary web application just to distinguish between the web apps itself.
I'll just copy this.
So now this will automatically save the default HTML file.
If I now go on to the overview for the web application.
So I'll copy the link onto a new tab.
And here if I go onto On default dot HTML.
We should be able to see now the page off.
This is the primary web application.
I'll do the same thing for the secondary web application as well.
The same steps I'll go on to the Azure Web app.
Here I'll go on to the development tools.
Open the App Service Editor and open the editor in a new tab.
And I'll go ahead and create the same default HTML page.
I'll create the default HTML page.
I'll say this is the secondary web application.
Then we can confirm.
Go on to the overview for the web app itself.
Take the default domain name.
Go on to new tab default dot HTML and we can see our page in place.
So let's mark an end onto this chapter wherein we have our back end applications in place.
In the next chapter let's see how we can work with the Traffic Manager profile.

--- Lab - Azure Traffic Manager - Implementation ---

Now, in the prior chapter, we performed the process of having our back end web applications in place.
In this chapter, let's now deploy the traffic manager profile in front of the web applications.
So here we're trying to simulate the condition that a company wants to, first of all, host a web application
on Azure.
They have the web applications in two regions.
Why they have the web application in two regions is in case if the web application goes down in the
primary region.
So let's say in our case it goes down in North Europe, users should still be able to access the web
application.
So we want the traffic manager service which is going to sit in front to automatically detect if the
primary site goes down.
Then go ahead and direct the request of the users onto the secondary site.
So the secondary or the other web application running in the other region.
So let's deploy the traffic manager profile.
Now, in front of our web applications, what I do is in Azure in my account.
Let me go onto all resources and let me create a new resource.
So this resource will be based on the traffic manager profile.
I'll choose to create a resource based on the service.
Now what we need to note is so this resource is going to be part of a resource group and a subscription.
That's as always we have to give a unique name for the traffic manager profile.
And then we have the different routing methods.
Now you are saying that the network connectivity issues encountered for Microsoft Network cannot fulfill
the request.
Let me see if it's a problem with the name of the traffic manager service.
Okay, it was just probably a problem with the name to make it unique.
Now we have the different routing methods.
So we can see we have routing methods like performance like weighted priority so on and so forth.
I want to go through an example of using the priority routing method.
So here what happens is traffic manager profile will route requests onto a primary site first.
If the primary site goes down then traffic manager can redirect requests onto a secondary site.
What you'll note here is when it comes onto traffic manager.
When we create the resources, it's pretty simple.
We just have the basic screen, we have the tags and we have the review and create.
Here we have the location of the resource group, but not the location of the traffic manager resource
The traffic manager service sits at the global level.
It does not sit at the region level.
So if you look at services like Azure Load Balancer or the Virtual Machine service, they will define
a region for the resource.
So that's a regional resource or service.
Sorry.
Your traffic manager sits at the global level.
So it does not matter on the region.
And that's why it has an ability to route requests at the global level to public endpoints.
I'll go on to review and create and let's create the traffic Manager profile.
So I'll click on create and let's wait till this is complete.
Now once I have the profile in place let me go on to the resource.
Now in the profile we are in the traffic Manager profile.
I am first going to go on to the settings.
Go on to configuration and within the configuration when it comes on to the endpoint monitor settings.
So your traffic manager will send kind of requests on an ongoing basis to the back end, you know,
endpoints just to detect if they're healthy or not.
Because if a endpoint is down right, traffic manager should use that routing method to route traffic
onto another endpoint.
The traffic manager needs to know, okay, on which protocol and port number and path to send requests
to to the back end.
Now, Azure Web Apps listens by default on the Https, the secure protocol.
Hence, I need to change the protocol onto Https.
And the port number for Https is 443.
So I'll change these settings accordingly so that traffic manager can send the request on to the correct
protocol for the Azure Web apps.
And then I will click on save.
So first is the configuration setting.
Now the next setting is I need to add my web applications as endpoints to the Traffic Manager profile.
I will click on add and add my first endpoint.
So I'll give a name of.
What we can do is we can give the name of our web applications.
So let me go on to the.
App services.
Go on to the primary web app.
Take the name give the name here.
We want to enable the endpoint the different target resource types which are already supported.
So in the type we have support for Azure endpoints.
For us the web app is part of Azure.
So it is an Azure endpoint.
We external endpoints.
If you have a web application running in your on premises data center that's exposed via, let's say,
a public IP address.
We can choose an external endpoint, but for us we have an Azure endpoint.
What is the type of resource?
It is an app service and it should detect the services, the app services which you already have running
as part of your account.
I will choose the primary web app and now I'm giving a priority one.
This means that the Traffic Manager profile will direct all client requests on to this primary web application.
Now we need to mention the custom host settings.
So for this we can take the entire default domain name and place it here.
Here what happens is you know, the traffic manager profile has its own DNS name.
And then what traffic manager does, is it just redirecting the requests onto the back end web application
that has its own kind of domain name.
So here I'm just specifying that in the header settings.
And then I'll click on add.
So we're adding an endpoint onto the traffic manager profile.
Now similarly let's add the endpoint for our secondary web app.
So going here let me click on add.
And let's add the secondary one.
Again I'll just give the name for the endpoint.
It is an Azure endpoint.
Again the service is an app service.
My target resource is the secondary web application.
And the priority is two.
So now with the priority of two, that means that traffic Manager profile will only direct requests
on to this endpoint if the endpoint with a priority of one goes down.
Now for the whole settings.
The same thing, the same concept.
I'll need to take the default domain name.
Place it here and click on add.
Now based on the configuration, the monitoring settings Azure Traffic Manager is first sending requests
onto the endpoint to make sure that they are online.
So it is detected that the endpoint for the primary web application is online.
You can click on refresh at any point in time to fetch the status of the endpoint itself.
What we'll do is let me just close these tabs and wait just for a minute to make sure that both of the
endpoints are online.
Now, once both of the endpoints are online, I'll go on to the overview.
Now within the overview for the traffic manager, we get a DNS name that has been allocated to the profile
itself.
If I copy this link onto the clipboard, go on to new tab and let me do a default dot HTML.
So I should be directed on to our primary web application.
I can continue on to the site.
Click on advance.
Proceed.
It is saying it's unsafe because it cannot detect the underlying certificate for the web application,
but that's fine.
But you can see that we are directed onto the primary web application.
Now what we'll do is let's simulate a failure for the primary web application.
The way that we can do this is if you go onto the primary web app itself, I can click on the stop button.
Click on yes.
And now we are stopping the primary web application.
Basically we're trying to simulate a failure.
Let's say that the you know the primary endpoint goes down.
What will traffic manager do now.
So traffic manager in a moment's time should detect.
I said it's continuously sending request onto the endpoints to figure out if they are healthy or not.
But if the primary endpoint is not healthy, then it should start sending requests onto the secondary
endpoint.
Let's just wait for a minute or two and then come back.
Now I've come back after a minute or two.
If I just refresh the page when it comes on to my traffic manager profile.
Okay, I need to again go on to advance and proceed on to the profile itself.
And now we are being directed onto the secondary web application.
So indeed, the traffic manager profile is understood that the primary endpoint is now not healthy,
and hence it is directing request onto the secondary web application.
So in the series chapters want to go through the use of Azure Traffic Manager.
Now that we're done I will just go ahead and delete my Traffic Manager profile.
I will keep my web applications as they are because I want to reuse them when looking at our next service,
which is Azure Front Door.
So I'll just go ahead and delete my traffic manager profile.

--- Azure Front Door ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give an introduction onto the next service that we're going to be seeing.
And that is the Azure front door service.
There are many kind of traffic distribution services on Azure.
So we have the Azure load balancer.
We have seen the Azure Traffic Manager.
We have Azure front door has another form of delivering web content.
Now primarily Azure Front Door is a content delivery networking service that helps deliver static and
dynamic web content to users across the world in a fast, reliable and secure way.
What does this mean?
Let's say that a company has a web application hosted on an Azure Web app in the West US location.
Now, for users in West US, or those who are close to this region, when they send the request, There
will be, you know, less latency in getting the response back.
See, what we have to understand is, you know, from our laptop, when we send a request on to a resource
on Azure, you have to understand that request is going in the end via our internet services provider.
It's going via the internet.
It's going on to the region, the data center that's hosting the service, the resource that we have.
And then the response comes back.
So there is a distance that our request and response needs to travel.
For users that are closest to West US, they would get the least latency.
That means they would get fast response times.
But for users who are located in places which are far away from west US, Obviously there will be some
latency, right?
They'll there'll be some time before they get the response back.
Normally for web applications you do have some sort of content, you know, delivery mechanism in place
that sits in front of the web application itself.
So with Azure front door, what you can do is you can provision Azure front door in front of the web
application.
But what's the benefit.
And you know because now users instead of directly going to the web application, they would go via
the Azure front door service.
And then Azure front door would route requests onto the web application accordingly.
But what's the benefit of putting something else, something extra in front of our web application?
Azure front door.
Can do is it can make use of these different Point of presence locations that are located by Azure across
the world.
So if we look at the Azure map.
So the Azure map, you know, we do have different data centers, right?
We have different regions.
Right.
And we have different data centers across the world.
And in these data centers Azure hosts their services.
At the same time they have these different network point of presence locations which you can see.
So what happens is if you have a user in a different location and that user sends a request, why Azure
front door or to the web application.
So what Azure front door will do is okay.
It will send the request to the web application.
The web application will send the response back.
Azure front door will send the response Bonds to the user, but at the same time it will cache that
response onto the point of presence location that's closest to the user.
So let's take the example that, you know, you have the web application in West US and you are a user
in UK South.
The user in UK South is making a request to the web application.
So now Azure front door will get the response back from the web application.
It will give it to the user in UK South.
But at the same time Azure front door will take that response.
Give it to the point of presence location in UK South itself.
So there'll be a server.
That response will be cached on that server basically stored on that server.
So now when another user from UK South makes a similar request to get the similar same response back,
instead of the response coming in all the way from Best Us.
The response will be taken from the Point of Presence server in UK South and given to the user.
So that's going to be much more faster.
So this is the primary advantage of using Azure.
Front door has a content delivery networking service wherein you get requests much more faster.
And we can cater to users across the world accessing the web application.
There are other features available with Azure front door.
Firstly, just like Azure Traffic Manager, there are different routing methods in place.
We have that available in Azure front door as well.
Azure front door can route requests based on the performance of endpoints that is also available with
Azure front door, we can couple another service known as the Web Application Firewall.
This helps to protect web applications from known attacks.
Now in the next chapter, I'll just showcase a very simple example on using Azure front door service.

--- Lab - Azure Front Door ---

Now I want to go through a lab when it comes on to using Azure front door.
Now, please know that initially I go through this entire lab using the resources that we have as part
of our Azure Free account.
But then later on, when we come on to the creation of the Azure Front Door resource, you will get
an error saying that you cannot use a service when it comes onto the Azure Free Trial account.
So you would need to convert on to a pay as you go subscription.
So initially as part of the Azure Free trial account, yes, I do go through the creation of the Azure
front door service.
And then I hit that bottleneck.
Then what I do is I go on to one of my other Azure accounts, and then I showcase how to work with Azure
front door service.
I want to let you all know right now itself, in the beginning of this chapter, that this is an issue
that we are going to face when it comes onto using the Azure Free Trial account for the Azure Front
Door service.
I'll reuse the same setup that we use when it comes onto Azure Traffic Manager, in which we have our
web applications in different locations.
Remember, we have one web application running in North Europe and another web application running in
UK South.
We will then create something known as an Azure front door profile based on the standard tier.
Then for the Azure front door profile, we'll configure something known as an endpoint.
This is a logical grouping of one or more routes that are linked with domain names.
So for Azure front door you'll get a default domain name.
That default domain name is going to have a route in place that will route traffic onto the back end
web applications.
And in our case, it's our Azure Web apps.
When we create the Azure Front Door resource itself, we will need to configure it.
We will create or configure something known as an origin group, wherein we're going to add both web
applications as origins onto the group itself.
We'll also configure the priority and the weightage to be the same for both Azure Web apps.
Now, I told you that Azure front door also has the same capability like Azure Traffic Manager when
it comes on to routing.
So we can use the priority routing method as well that's available in Azure front door.
But in this case I'm going to keep the priority of both web apps as they are and also keep the weightage
the same.
That means Azure Front Door can direct request to both web applications at the same time.
What's the purpose of this?
And we'll see this at the end of the demo.
So once I set up Azure front door you'll understand why I've done this.
And then once we have the front door profile in place, let's send a request from our laptop onto the
front door profile itself.
So let's go on to our Azure account.
So if I go on to all resources let's go ahead and create a new resource based on.
Azure front door.
I'll choose to create.
So we have something known as Fernando and CN profiles.
Yes I will choose to create a new resource based on the service.
We have Azure front door.
We have the, you know, the ability to explore other offerings.
But these offerings are soon going to be kind of decommissioned.
They won't be in place.
So we'll choose Azure front door.
We can perform a quick create or a custom create.
Let me choose a custom create set.
So let me specify more settings when creating the resource itself, I'll choose my existing resource
group.
Again, we have only the resource group location because Rondo, just like Azure Traffic Manager, sits
at the global level.
I'll give a name for my resource.
Based on the standard tier.
I'll click on next.
I'll go on to the endpoint.
Now in the endpoint let me add kind of a default endpoint.
So we need to give an endpoint name.
I'll just give it an endpoint name.
And this is the host name that you're going to get.
So when we send a request onto Azure front door we'll actually send a request onto this particular endpoint.
Okay.
We will enable the endpoint and click on add.
And now we get kind of this interface for the endpoint.
So we have the endpoint name.
Now I'm going to add a route.
So we need to route traffic on to this endpoint from our users.
I'll just give a simple route name.
Scroll down.
So we're saying that whenever traffic comes onto this primary domain that's assigned on to the front
door profile, where do we direct our traffic to.
So I'm going to direct my traffic onto my Azure Web apps.
In order to direct traffic onto my Azure Web apps, I'll need to add a group.
So I'm going to add an origin group.
This origin group will actually contain my Azure Web apps.
So I'll give a simple name for the group.
And then I'll start adding my origins.
So I'll add my primary web application.
For this I can take the name of my primary web app.
Here we have a whole list of origin types in place.
I'm going to choose an app service, and then I should be able to see my primary web application in
place.
In terms of the priority, you will see I'm keeping it as one.
So we do have this facility in place to mention a priority.
We have the default HTTP and https port number.
I'm also keeping the weightage 1000 so hazardous.
I'm enabling this origin.
I will click on add.
Let me add the other origin as well onto the group.
So that's my secondary web application.
So I'll give the name here.
In terms of the host name I'll choose the secondary web app.
Right.
We have the host header again here I'm keeping the priority as one.
And the weightage has thousand.
I will enable this origin and I'll click on add.
So now we have both of our origins enabled.
They both have a priority and they both have a weightage.
We have the enabling of health probe.
So how will you know.
Azure front door makes sure that the back end applications or endpoints are healthy.
So the front door service can send requests at regular intervals to make sure that the endpoints are
healthy.
So we can enable health probes.
But when it comes on to our Azure Web apps, again they listen on the Https protocol.
So I'll change this onto Https and leave the other settings as they are.
I will click on add.
So what I've done is I've created something known as an origin group.
As part of this origin group I'm adding my web applications.
And then we're adding this on to a root.
And this route we're adding onto Azure front door.
That's it.
I'll go on to review and create and then create the front door profile.
It's in the validation phase.
Let's see what's missing in terms of basic.
So it's saying that Microsoft CDN is not registered for this subscription.
So I will need to go on to a new tab.
I will need to go on to my subscriptions.
Go on to the subscription itself.
And then let's go on to enabling.
I'll go on to settings.
Go on to resource providers and in resource providers.
Let me search for CDN.
So Microsoft is not registered.
Let's go ahead and register this and just wait for a moment or two.
Once this is done and once the registration is complete here, let's try this again.
Let me go on review and create where it runs the final validation.
Now it's passed.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
Now this might take around.
I'm going to wait for at least around five ten minutes and then come back.
And I'll wait for the resource to be in place.
I'll make sure that Azure front door has the capabilities of then routing the requests onto the backend
Azure Web apps.
Okay, now we're getting another error.
It's saying that the free trial and student account is forbidden when it comes onto Azure front door
resources.
Okay.
That's not very good.
So.
So what I'm going to do is unfortunately, I'm going to go on to one of my other Azure accounts there
where I have a pay as you go subscription.
I'll go ahead.
And first of all, create my two Azure Web applications and then go on to the screen wherein we'll create
the Azure Resource.
Now unfortunately I said this is not possible.
Nothing that I can do, but it's good to kind of run into these errors so that you, you know, kind
of know, No.
Okay.
You know what services are actually allowed when it comes onto the free trial?
Uh, what services you can use, you know, has in the pay as you go subscription, right.
So what I've done is I've gone on to one of my other Azure accounts.
In that Azure account, I've created, again, a new web application, a primary web application, the
same thing in North Europe.
That's one of the web applications and a secondary web app in the UK South location.
And then I have my default dot HTML files in place.
And now I'm just creating the front door profile.
So the exact same steps.
But the only thing is that I'm doing it now in an account that is based on the pay as you go model.
And so I have the ability to create a resource based on the service.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
And I said I'll wait for some time and then come back.
Now I've come back after some time.
If I go onto the resource itself, if I go on to the front door manager And go on to my default route.
Right.
We have this domain name in place.
If I copy this onto the clipboard, and if I go on to the default HTML, I'm being directed onto the
secondary web application.
Now remember, when it comes on to the settings for the endpoints, I kept the priority of one and a
weightage of 1000 for both of the web applications here.
Azure Front Door has detected that my location is closest to the UK South location.
Hence, instead of directing me onto the web application in North Europe, it has directed me onto the
web application running in the UK South location.
So by default, Azure front Door is using performance metrics to understand which is the best endpoint
to direct a user's request.
Right now that I'm done, I'm going to go ahead and delete all of my resources.

--- Azure DevOps services ---

Welcome back.
Now, in the next set of chapters, I want to showcase some of the features that are available when
it comes onto the Azure DevOps suite of tools.
But before that, for the benefit of students who are not familiar with this entire concept of DevOps
itself, I want to give that brief introduction.
Azure DevOps provides this kind of toolset to manage the various processes.
What's involved in implementing DevOps?
So what is DevOps?
This is a set of practices, principles, tools that are meant to unify the work of software development
and IT operations.
UAV promote collaboration between developers, members of QA and the operations team within.
Automate tasks such as code merging, testing, and deployment.
And then you incorporate regular monitoring of applications and infrastructure.
You know, the entire purpose of DevOps was to have better communication, better collaboration between
development teams, between the testing team and the operations team.
So as an example of this entire flow, just to understand the purpose of DevOps itself, let's go to
the the simple use case scenario.
Let's say a development team is responsible for developing an application.
So they have the first build of the application ready.
They didn't give it on to the testing team.
The testing team performs testing of the entire application.
And now the application is deployed onto a production based environment.
So the development team is happy.
The testing team is happy that they've tested the application, and the operations team is also happy
that the application is in production and working as it should.
So the operations team is now taking over the server operations path, the database operations, managing
the application, etc..
Now let's say that there is a requirement to apply some quick fixes or some quick features on the application.
Normally, when it comes to implementing these new features, these quick fixes, there is a time constraint.
So when building the primary web application and you know the first time when they build the application,
probably the project gets a lot of time, a lot of money, a lot of budget to kind of, you know, have
time and place and money in place for the development team to develop the application for the testing
team to test the application.
But when it comes time to promoting fixes, there's a time constraint.
There is a budget constraint.
Sometimes testing is not conducted in whole for the entire application based on the fixes.
Now, because of this, the operations team can be kind of hesitant to deploy the new changes because
in the end, the operations team are in the line of fire if anything goes wrong.
So if they promote a fix and it causes the application to go down, so the operations team is in the
line of fire.
So there's always this constant problems or tussles between the development team, between the testing
team and the operations team.
The entire purpose of DevOps is to have a smooth flow, smooth collaboration, communication between
your development team, between the operations team, and between the testing team.
Here, when you have changes initially set by customers from the entire requirements, design, development,
that entire cycle, all stakeholders.
So whether it be the dev team, whether it be the testing team, whether it be our users, business
users, whether it be your operations team, all of them are involved.
But apart from this, we you know, there's also a need for automation.
So you want to deliver these changes.
So even though we want collaboration, we also want to deliver these changes in a fast manner.
We want to be able to automate the taking of new updates, the new code updates, build them, test
them automatically, and then promote them on to, let's say, a staging environment and then onto production.
So you have this entire DevOps lifecycle, wherein everything is part of the lifecycle, wherein you
plan for the changes.
You then code the changes accordingly.
You have automated build processes in place.
You have automatic testing in place.
You can then release and deploy those changes, and then you basically monitor those changes in production.
Now as a brief kind of note, we're going to see how we can use the Azure DevOps suite of tools when
it comes on to like planning, when it comes on to building and when it comes on to release.

--- Azure DevOps Free Account ---

Instructor: Now in this chapter, I wanna showcase
how you can create a free Azure DevOps account.
This is something that you can do if you wanna experiment
with the different services that Azure DevOps has to offer.
You can always go ahead and start for free.
You can use the same account that you have
when it comes on to your Azure account.
So the same Microsoft account that you've used
to create your Azure account,
that same account can be used
to create a free Azure DevOps account.
Now, just as an example, in another tab,
I have logged into one of my Azure accounts.
Here in the other tab, I'm on the page
when it comes on to the products for DevOps.
Here, I'll say start for free.
And it's giving me a screen
wherein it's saying we can get started with Azure DevOps
based on my Microsoft account.
It's giving something known as a project name
within Azure DevOps itself,
something known as a project visibility.
I can keep it as it is.
We need to enter the characters here.
I'll click on the Continue button.
And now it's taking us onto something known
as an Azure DevOps organization.
So now it's creating an Azure DevOps account for us.
Within that account, it creates something known
as an organization.
And within the organization,
you will have something known as Azure DevOps projects.
And now we are logged in onto Azure DevOps.
And at the same time,
we have also gone onto our Azure DevOps project.
Right, so in this chapter, just wanna quickly go through
how you can create an Azure DevOps free account.
Now for the purpose of the next videos
in which I'll be giving an idea
on how to use the different services,
I'll be using another Azure DevOps account that I have
that's with another Microsoft account.
Again, everything remains the same, right?
The interfaces are all the same.
It's only that I'm using another account.
If you wanna follow along,
you can still go through the same steps.

--- Azure DevOps - Quick look at Azure Boards ---

Now, the first tool we're going to look at when it comes to Azure DevOps is Azure Boards.
This is a web service that allows a team to plan and track various work items during the entire development
process.
It has support for the agile methodology, wherein we can create a backlog, first of all of work items,
and then we can organize those work items into sprints.
We can visualize our work in Azure boards as guards.
You know, we can easily drag and drop the cards across various states.
Now, in order to start using Azure DevOps, I'm actually going to sign in onto one of my existing Azure
DevOps account.
Again, all of this is basically free of cost.
So instead, I'm just signing in onto one of my other accounts.
I use the same.
So I use the same Microsoft account for my Azure account as well.
So when you first start using Azure DevOps, when you first log into your account, Azure DevOps will
ask you to create a project to get started so we can give a simple project name and I'll click on Create
Project.
Then within the project you can use the different tools like Azure Boards.
We can use Azure Repos, pipelines, so on and so forth.
If you go onto Azure Boards here, we have the item.
Here we have the ability to create new work items so we can create something known as an epic.
We can create an issue and we can create task at the same time.
I can go on to boards, which gives me a visual representation in terms of different swim lanes, in
terms of the tasks that need to be done, in terms of tasks that we need to do in terms of the tasks
which are in progress and those that have been done.
So this is when it comes onto the issues.
You can create different types of projects.
And then based on the projects that you create, you can create different types of tasks.
Currently here within this type of project we can create normal tasks.
And within the more we can create epics and issues.
So if I go and create a new item so I can say create a login screen.
Similarly we can create other items, create a report.
So let's say these are all things that need to be done.
And then we can simply drag the issues from one swimlane onto another.
So this helps us to track the tasks that need to be carried out for a project within our team.
Very simple view when it comes on to Azure boards.

--- Azure DevOps - Quick look at Azure Repos ---

Now.
Next I want to go on to using Azure Repos.
Now this is a version control tool that helps you manage different code versions.
Now Azure Repos can be used to host and manage your git based repositories.
Now git is a very popular version control tool.
You know when you have multiple developers that are working on your source code, right?
You need version control tools to maintain different versions of the code.
If you need to go back onto a prior version, you need a tool that can manage the different versions.
So git is a very popular version control tool.
You can create something known as git repositories for your code within Azure Repos.
You can actually maintain an online version of your git repositories.
Now I want to showcase a very simple demo on how we can upload code, but at the same time, I want
to use that code in subsequent chapters when it comes on to using Azure pipelines.
Hence, on my laptop I will first of all install the git client tool.
Then in Visual Studio Code, I'm going to create a simple ASP.Net application again.
In one of my earlier chapters, I had shown you how you could install Visual Studio Code on your machine,
how you could install the dotnet SDK, and then have the required extension in Visual Studio Code for
creating applications, I want to create a very simple application.
I'm going to install the git client tool on my laptop.
We're going to create something known as a local git repository.
We'll add our code files onto the repository and then push it onto Azure Repos.
But first and foremost I'll go onto the git download page.
I said this is a very popular version control tool.
Since I'm on a windows laptop, I'll download for windows, but this is available for Mac OS and Linux
as well, so I'll download for windows.
I'll do the git for windows x64 setup, I'll save it onto my locals.
I'll save it onto my downloads location.
Once the download is complete, let me start the installer.
Again, it's a very simple and straightforward installer.
I'll click on install.
So I do have a previous version of git.
Okay, since I already have a previous version of git is just going ahead and installing the newer version.
But for you, you're going to get a lot of screens in each of the screen.
Just accept the default settings.
Go onto next until you go on to the final screen wherein you install git.
Again, I said you'll have a lot of screens coming in between for me, since I already have git on my
local machine, all it's doing is it is updating the version of git that I already have.
Okay, this is done.
I'll just click on finish.
Next I'm going to open up Visual Studio Code.
I'll open up a local folder within VSCode and within this folder let me create a new dotnet project.
You'll choose ASP dotnet core web app razor pages.
Just give a simple name for my project in the default directory.
I'll go ahead and create a new project.
And now we have the project in place.
So this is a very simple ASP.Net is a simple web application.
Now what I'll do is I'm going to go ahead and upload this project onto Azure Repos.
If you go on to your project in Azure DevOps for a new project, you get access to a repository.
Currently, the repository is empty.
We will need to upload the code from our local machine onto this repository.
Now I'm going to go on to Command prompt.
I'll go on to the location where I have my project.
I have my web project here.
I'm now going to use git commands locally.
We're going to initialize something known as an empty git repository on our local machine.
Then I'll add all of my files onto this git repository.
Then we need to commit our changes.
If you want to learn more about using git and this entire process, you can go for the or learn for
the AZ for an exam.
There you learn everything about using git, about using Azure DevOps, you know, and the entire suite
of services.
I do commit, okay.
It's telling me that we need to tell who we are in terms of setting the user email and the username.
So I'll do a git config.
So setting the email first.
And then setting the username.
Git.
Just doing this as a simple demo.
Okay.
Now I'll commit my changes by doing a git commit.
Then we have the commands here in which we can now add Azure repos as an origin a remote origin.
So I'll just copy this command.
So git remote add origin and the entire URL.
This for Azure Repos.
And then we can push all of our local code onto the remote origin.
Now hopefully it should prompt me for the username and password to log into our account.
So since.
I'm using one of my Azure accounts let me log in accordingly.
So once I've logged in, it's pushing all of my code onto the remote repository.
If I refresh this entire page now I can see my code in place.
So in this chapter, I just want to showcase how we can upload our code onto a git based repository
within Azure Repos.

--- Azure DevOps - Quick look at Build Pipelines ---

Now.
Next I want to go through using Azure Pipelines.
So Azure pipelines can be used to build the code and also perform releases.
So this is good when you want to perform continuous integration, continuous testing and delivery.
So now that we have our code in a git based repository, you know you have multiple developers that
are working on the code.
So whenever a developer makes changes, they might push the changes onto the git based repository.
In the world of DevOps, you want to automate the entire process wherein after a code gets checked into
a git based repository, the code should be taken automatically built into the application.
The application then can be automatically tested and then deployed.
So I want you to remember is when it comes on to code, code in the end needs to be built into an application.
Normally for a developer they'll use their development environment.
So you can use Visual Studio code to basically run your code within Visual Studio code runs your code.
It will first create a build of the code itself and then run it.
So in the end, if you want to automate the entire process of building your code right, you need to
have a compute machine in place.
So with Azure Pipelines, Azure Pipelines has the ability to automatically take code from a git based
repository, provide the compute machine that will be have the required tools to build the application.
So let's look at a very simple example of this in Azure DevOps.
So we have our code files in place currently within Azure Repos.
What I'll do is I'll go on to pipelines and let me create our first pipeline within this project.
Now Azure Pipelines does have support for multiple different code repositories based on git.
Since ours is an Azure Repos git, I'll click on Azure Repos itself.
It's in my dev project.
It is an ASP dotnet core based application.
So I'll choose this ASP dotnet core.
What this does is it creates something known as a YAML configuration file, wherein there is a trigger
on to the branch.
So whenever there is a change made onto the code base in your git based repository, it will go ahead
and trigger this pipeline.
This pipeline will create a compute machine based on the windows latest images that are available within
Azure DevOps.
It should then pick up the code and build and test the code accordingly.
Now here what I'm going to do is I am going to delete this task of testing the code.
Let me click on Save and Run except the commit message.
Click on Save and Run.
What's going to happen now is the pipeline is going to create a job.
Now this job is first going to spin up an agent, a machine.
This machine will pick up the code from the git based repository, and it's going to go ahead and build
the code.
So this machine of windows latest will have dotnet installed that dotnet can be used.
I said for building the code.
So it has all the required tools in place.
Or it will have the required tools in place for building the code into an application.
Now nothing fancy is going to happen here.
All that is happening is there is a build pipeline that's running that's building our code.
Nothing great.
In the next chapter I'm going to showcase how do you create something known as a release pipeline.
Now this should go on to completion in a moment's time.
But is it nothing fancy?
Nothing great.
These build is being used to build the application.
And that's it.
Let's see how we can progress beyond this stage in the next chapter.

--- Azure DevOps - Quick look at Release Pipelines ---

Now in the prior chapter, I'd use Azure Pipelines to create something known as a build, but nothing
I said great is happening here.
Now let me go ahead and create something known actually as a release pipeline.
I want to take the build of my application and release it onto an Azure Web app.
So I want to create a release pipeline, but before I create a release pipeline, let me go on to my
build pipeline and I'm going to edit the pipeline.
So I'll click on edit.
I'm going to make a change here in terms of the change, I'm adding commands because you don't need
to know about this, but it is adding commands that will take my application.
It will build it and it will publish it.
See I want to take that code, the build, publish it as a zip file and create it as an artifact that
will be made available onto the release pipeline.
This all boils down onto your knowledge on how to build and deploy an ASP.Net application.
Again, from the perspective of the exam, you don't need to know all this.
I am trying to showcase the power of using Azure DevOps in your entire cycle of continuous integration
and deployment.
So I'm going to click on Validate and Save.
I'll click on save.
What this will do is this will make the required changes and run.
Now another job.
Again nothing great is going to happen.
But this time around when it does the build, it will create kind of a zip file of my application and
make it available as an artifact that can be consumed by my next pipeline.
That's going to be my release pipeline.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now.
Once the job run is complete, I will now go on to releases and I'm going to create something known
as a new release pipeline.
Here in the release pipeline, I'll click on adding an App Service deployment.
So there are many templates in place.
So we can name this stage.
We have the stage as part of our pipeline.
We can give a name for the pipeline.
Then here we can add an artifact so we can pick up now the build artifact that we just published as
part of our build pipeline.
So I can choose my source build click on add.
So this will pick up the build.
Now from my build pipeline we can also enable the continuous deployment trigger as well.
You know once done I go on to my job and task here.
Here I need to choose my Azure subscription.
Now here I will need to authorize Azure DevOps to work with my Azure subscription.
I'll need to log in.
So I'll just log in with my account details.
So all we're doing here is we are authorizing Azure DevOps to be able to work with our Azure subscription.
You can go ahead and hide this so we get a better view.
Once done here we should be able to actually choose our web application.
So I can choose my.
Now here I've logged in onto my other Azure account.
So the same admin account that I'm using for my Azure DevOps demos, I have that same Azure account
in place.
I have deployed an Azure Web app based on the free App Service plan.
If I copy the default domain name onto a new tab, I can see the home page of the default web application
here.
Then I can choose my web app itself.
So now I have the task available in my deployment pipeline.
Let me go ahead and click on save and click on okay.
So now we have a deployment pipeline in place.
And what I can do is I can go on to.
My build pipeline.
Let me run this build pipeline again.
Now even though I have not made any changes, this build pipeline will create a new build and that build
can be taken on to my release pipeline, and my release pipeline should take my application and deploy
it onto my Azure Web app.
Let's wait till the build pipeline is complete.
Now, once the build pipeline is complete, if I go on to the releases section, you will now see that
a release is in place.
If I click on the release, it is now taking the build from my build pipeline and it should start a
process wherein it is now deploying the build onto my Azure Web app.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now, once the deployment is complete, if I refresh the page for my web application, I can now see
the home page of the ASP.Net application itself.
Right.
So in these set of chapters, I just want to give kind of an overview when it comes onto the different
tools that you can use within Azure DevOps itself.

--- Machine Learning ---

And welcome back.
Now in the next chapters, we'll look at an example on using a machine learning service on Azure and
also an AI service.
But before that I want to go through what exactly this for the benefit of those students who might not
be familiar with the concept of machine learning.
So machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence.
That's the buzzword in today's world.
Machine learning uses algorithms to actually analyze existing data, discover patterns in the data,
and in the end, build something known as a machine learning model.
So if we look at the overarching process of machine learning, in the end what we want to get is we
want to get something known as a machine learning model.
We basically train the model based on data.
So we take in, you know, existing historical data.
We then extract the required features.
You know, you learn more about machine learning the process.
How do you implement machine learning.
So for example, if you're preparing for the eye exam that focuses on the basics of machine learning
and AI here as part of AZ 900, we just need to have an overview when it comes on to the process, and
we can take a quick look at using machine learning services on Azure.
So again, what we try to achieve when it comes onto machine learning is we want to develop something
known as a machine learning model.
We develop this model by training the model based on data.
And once the model is in place, we can use the model to make predictions.
Now there are already many pre-built machine learning models in place.
These machine learning models can already perform tasks such as recognizing images, recognizing voice,
performing optical character recognition, so on and so forth.
But a company might want to develop their own machine learning model for a particular business use case
or a particular business requirement.
So in order to build a model, you would need to first feed in input data.
I put big data because you will need to feed a lot of data to get a good machine learning model.
You will use something known as a machine learning algorithm that will look at patterns in the data
and then develop the model.
So in this chapter, I just want to kind of give this quick introduction onto the entire machine learning
process.
In the next set of chapters, I want to quickly showcase how we can build a very simple machine learning
model in Azure using the machine learning service.

--- Lab - Creating a Machine Learning workspace ---

Now, I said, in these next couple of chapters, I want to showcase how we can use the machine learning
service on Azure.
Now, by no means you need to follow along.
I just want you all to kind of get an idea on the machine learning service itself.
If you want to dwell more onto the basics of machine learning and AI, I told you it's better to go
for a course that is targeted towards, let's say, the AI night exam that goes through the basics of
machine learning and AI.
Here's I want to give an idea on how we can develop something known as a machine learning model.
Now all resources are click on create here.
Let me search for machine learning.
So I want to create something known as a machine learning workspace.
So for Azure Machine Learning I'll choose to create a resource based on the service.
I'll choose an existing resource group.
I'll give a workspace name.
Now, note that this particular wizard, you know is going to create several resources.
These are all required by the machine learning service.
So the machine learning service requires a storage account.
It requires a keyword.
It requires an application insights resource.
So I'll leave the wizard to go ahead and create these resources.
Go on to next for inbound access.
Leave it as it is outbound access.
Leave it as it is.
I won't change anything.
I'll go on review and create and see if it can create the machine learning workspace as part of our
Azure Free account.
So it's fine.
The validation has passed.
I'll go ahead and click on create.
So this wizard is going to create a number of resources.
What I'll do is I'll wait till the deployment is complete.
I'll mark an end onto this chapter and we'll move on to the next.

--- Lab - Machine Learning - Pipeline - Compute Infrastructure ---

Now I've come back.
The deployment of my machine learning service is complete.
I can go on to the resource in another tab.
What I've done is I've just opened up the view when it comes on to all resources, so we can see the
resources that got created as part of the wizard.
So we have the key vault.
We have something known as a log analytics, workspace application insights, a storage account.
And finally in the end, the Azure Machine Learning Service.
Now as part of the Machine Learning service resource, we have the ability to launch something known
as an Azure Machine Learning Studio.
Let me click on Launch Studio.
This should open up another interface.
Within this interface, we can actually build something known as machine learning models.
I want to showcase a very simple example using data that's already present within Azure.
So they have a sample data set.
I want to make use of that sample data set and just show you a very simple process on how do you develop
a machine learning model now in order to develop the machine learning model, we need to train the model.
So the model needs to be trained on recognizing patterns within data.
Because in the end we want to use the model to make predictions.
So as a very simple example, let's say you want a system in place that can predict the price of houses
within a particular region.
You want to give that system, you know, to users.
So users should be able to query that system saying that, okay, they want to, you know, look at
the price of the house, let it two months from now within a particular location based on the, you
know, the square feet of the house, based on the number of rooms, so on and so forth.
You want to develop that intelligence in that system that has the ability to take in previous records,
previous data of houses that have already been sold in various regions based on various parameters.
And you want to build that intelligent Intelligence system in place that has the ability to forecast
values, you know, prices for houses.
Hence, what we have to do is we have to build that system.
We have to build that intelligence.
We have to build that model in order to build that model.
I said, we have to train the model based on existing data, so we will feed in existing data that has
the prices for the houses that have already been sold.
Right.
So what was the initial price then?
What are the various parameters on the number of rooms in the house, the square feet in area, you
know, so on and so forth.
And finally, what was the house sold for?
So we feed in all of this data.
The machine learning model, along with something known as a machine learning algorithm, is going to
look at the different data points, look at patterns within the data, and try to develop an intelligence
that can allow it to predict future house prices.
So we want to build a model within the machine learning workspace.
For this, I will first go actually on to compute and build something known as Compute Machine.
So in order to build that model, in order to take in the data, use the algorithm to train the model.
Obviously in the end we need some sort of compute machine.
You need a compute machine to you know you need to have compute to train the model.
So here we want to build a compute machine that can help us to train the machine learning model or provide
the compute infrastructure.
We have different classes in place.
So we can create compute instances, compute clusters, so on and so forth.
I want to build a very simple compute instance.
I'll click on new under compute instance.
This will give me a wizard in which I can create that instance.
So it's giving a compute name.
I can keep it as it is.
I'll leave the virtual machine type as CPU.
We can choose from a variety of machines we can search for is.
So I'll say that let's select from all the options.
You know these are sizes are similar to what we've seen when it comes onto virtual machines.
So I'll search for D2S I'll choose standard underscore D2S underscore v3.
That gives us two cores, two virtual cores and eight gigs of Ram.
Obviously if you need more compute power, which you probably will need if you're building a model because
you're going to feed in a lot of data, you need a lot of compute processing power to actually look
at patterns within the data.
For us, we're looking at a very simple use case scenario.
What I'll do is this all is fine.
Security as it is.
Just go on to review and create and let's create this compute machine.
So it's going ahead with the creation of the compute machine.
And remember this compute machine will be used for training our machine learning model.
Now next, let's actually build something known as a pipeline.
This pipeline will be used to train the model.
I'll click on new pipeline.
Let's create a new pipeline using classic pre-built components.
This will now give me a designer in which I can drag and drop components onto something known as a canvas.
So you will see that you don't need any sort of coding experience to go ahead and actually build a machine
learning model here, with the help of the designer.
You can create a pipeline.
You can author a flow that can help you actually build the machine learning model.
And that's what I want to do.
Now go into the components section.
Here we have some sample data in place.
So I'll take in some inbuilt data.
There's something known as the adult Middle Income Binary classification data set.
Let me drag this onto the canvas.
Let me just hide this for a moment.
And for this data, I can right click and preview the data.
So in terms of the data set.
So this is an inbuilt data set within Azure Excel.
Within the machine learning workspace we have around 32,000 rows of information in place.
And we have 15 columns of information.
So we have columns of information such as what is the age, the education, the occupation, so on and
so forth.
So this is existing data.
Now this existing data.
So based on all of these features.
So these are known as features.
So based on I said the occupation the education so on and so forth.
There is sort of binary output in terms of the income.
So based on these features, the income of the person is either less than or equal to 50 K or it will
be greater than 50 K.
So in the end what we want to do is we want to build a machine learning model that will take in new
features.
So it will take in all of these new features.
So on the fly we can provide values for these features such as the native country, what is the relationship,
so on and so forth.
And then the model should predict whether the income would be less than or equal to 50 K or greater
than 50 K.
So we are building this model based on existing data.
Now let's go ahead and let's mark it in on this chapter.
Let's move on to the next wherein we'll complete the building of our pipeline.

--- Lab - Machine Learning - Pipeline - Completion ---

Now we are in the process of creating a pipeline that will be used to build a machine learning model.
Currently I have my input data set, so this is an inbuilt data set.
The next thing what I want to do is I want to use this data set.
And I said I want to build something known as a machine learning model.
For this we need to use I said something known as a machine learning algorithms.
So there are many machine learning algorithms already in place.
I'm going to choose the one of two class logistic regression.
So this is the algorithm that we want to choose.
We now want to.
So there are these inbuilt models sorry inbuilt components in place.
I now want to go ahead and train the machine learning model.
Now you will see that in terms of training the model, it's taking an input of an untrained model and
a data set.
So we can feed in our data set, and we can feed in the algorithm that can be used to train our model.
But before that, before all of this, I'm going to use the component of split.
Now please note that I'm just giving kind of a very brief overview on how we can build the model.
I told you, if you want to understand in detail about all of these aspects, then go for a course that
focuses on machine learning from the purpose of AZ 900.
We just need to understand the basics of using the service.
Now, for this prebuilt data set, I'm going to drag the data output and put it onto the input of split
data.
See, what I want to do is I want to split the data.
Let me go ahead and just hide this.
So I want to split the data.
The incoming data into two sets.
We're going to put a percentage or a fraction of 0.7.
That means this split data activity is going to split the data into a 70% 30% split.
We will use 70% to train our machine learning model.
And then we can use the remaining 30% to test the model.
So once we have the model in place by training it, we need to test it with data.
We need to see if the model is giving accurate predictions.
Because we want to deploy this model onto a production based environment.
We want users to be able to use the model.
But before that we need to test our model.
It's just like an application.
You develop an application, but in the end you have to test the application.
You have to make sure that the application works as expected.
So even here we ensure that the model works as expected.
In order to test the model For our data set.
I said we can split the data set.
We can say, let's split the data set into a split of 70 and 30%, where in 30% of our data is used
to test the model and 70% is used to train the model.
Okay, we've done the split data.
Next, I will take the two class logistic regression algorithm and move it on to training the model.
I'll take one part of the resultant data set from split data and put it onto our data set.
Now in training the model we have to specify what is the label column.
I told you in the data set we have many features.
And in the end based on the features we have an output, a prediction, whether the income is kind of
less than or equal to 50 K or it's greater than 50 K.
This is our label column.
So what is a column of data that we want to predict.
I'll click on edit.
So the name of the column is actually income.
So I'll put in that name and click on save.
So you can just see this by just dragging and dropping components onto a canvas.
Now once we train the model we can score the model.
So this is the testing of the model.
So search for the score model component I'll drag it here.
And in terms of scoring the model.
So we need to feed in what is our train model.
And then the 30% of our data set.
And once you score the model you can go ahead and evaluate the model to get the results.
So like evaluate model onto the canvas.
Take my scored data set and drag it onto evaluate model.
And now we have a very simple workflow that is taking in our income data, that is splitting our data
into a 7,030% split.
We then using a machine learning algorithm along with the 70% of data to train the model.
And then we are scoring the model based on the 30% data set that we have remaining.
And then we are evaluating the model in the end.
Once done, we can now run this pipeline on our compute instance.
So I can say let's go ahead and do a configure and submit.
We can create something known as an experiment.
I'll just give a simple name.
Click on next.
I am saying let's run this on our compute instance and I'll select my instance.
Let's.
Go on to next and we can do a submit.
Now the machine learning service will submit.
This pipeline has a job onto the compute machine.
The compute machine will download the data set.
It will download the algorithm.
And it will perform all of these steps of splitting the data, training the model, scoring the model.
You're saying that the pipeline job has been submitted.
We can click on View details.
This will open up another tab.
And here we'll see the progress of our job.
So currently you can see that it's performing the job of splitting the data and also probably downloading
the algorithm.
Let's wait till this is complete.
Now once the pipeline run is complete you'll actually get a notification.
You can go on to the job details which is here itself.
We are already in the job details.
If you go on to the last step, which is the evaluate model, you can right click and preview the evaluation
results.
Now these results are actually based on the type of machine learning algorithm that you're using.
And then using these results you can look at the accuracy of the model.
So I said remember in the end this model is going to be used to predict the income of an adult.
Here what's happening is these results are based on, first of all, the pipeline training, a machine
learning model on 70% of the data and then testing the model on the remaining 30%.
So you can view the evaluation results and decide if this is the model that you want to choose and deploy
onto your production based environment.
Right.
Just a quick demo on using the machine learning service.

--- Azure AI Services ---

Now we know in today's world there are so many companies that are looking towards using artificial intelligence
within their applications.
So Azure has a lot of inbuilt AI services.
You can use these services to incorporate AI features within your application.
So for example, in an application, let's say a user uploads a set of images onto the application itself.
The application should then generate different, let's say, tags or divide them into groups based on
the objects it finds within the images.
Now, instead of a developer developing everything from scratch to detect objects within an image,
they can leverage existing solutions on Azure.
So Azure has solutions, AI solutions that can be used to generate captions and descriptions from images.
Their AI solutions that can be used to detect objects and also perform other aspects as well.
If we want to look at a very simple example on using the AI based services within the Azure account,
we can create a resource based on.
the AI foundry service.
This is a new service known as Foundry Azure.
AI foundry.
Let's go ahead and create a resource based on the service.
Again we need an existing resource group.
I'll need to give a unique name for the resource.
Now I'm leaving the region as East US because I've seen that if I choose another region, I will not
be able to use the service.
So there's probably a limitation on which regions have the availability for this particular service.
So I'll leave it as East US.
It will create a new project for me.
I'll click on next.
Click on next.
Encryption tags.
Go on to next.
Let's create a resource based on the service.
Click on create and let's come back once we have the resource in place.
Now one of the resource deployment is complete.
I can go on to it and we should be able to actually open up.
Just waiting for the resource to load.
We should be able to go on the Azure AI foundry portal.
This will give us a new interface.
And within this interface we should have the ability to do a lot.
So we can use the inbuilt AI models.
We should also have the ability to use, you know, a lot of popular models that are in the industry
today, the AI models.
So this includes using the models from open AI, so on and so forth.
But if you want to look at a very simple demo, we can go on to the playgrounds within playgrounds.
Let me scroll down.
I'll go onto the playground.
I'll try the playground wherein we can use the inbuilt services.
So we have inbuilt Azure AI based services, which can detect the language of underlying text that can
be used to analyze the sentiment.
So you can detect positive, negative and neutral sentiments within text.
I said, there's a whole list of, you know, this is only based on language.
I said, there are so many AI models in place.
So if you look at a very simple example, if you choose Analyze Sentiment, scroll down, choose the
samples that are available.
So here there is a sample.
If I just go ahead and just hide this.
So there is a sample product review.
If I click on run.
So what's happening is the inbuilt AI model is taking this as the input.
And it's giving the overall sentiment right.
Overall the sentiment is 75% positive and 25% negative.
This is based on the text within the review itself.
So there's a lot when it comes on to using AI.
In this chapter I want to give a small glimpse onto using the Azure AI foundry service.
Now that I'm done, I'll go on to all resources and delete all of my resources accordingly.

--- Lab - Azure Key Vault ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Azure Key Vault service, a very simple yet powerful
service.
The Azure Key Vault is a managed service that can be used for storing secrets, encryption keys, and
certificates.
See for example, let's say you have an application that is connecting onto a database.
Now obviously you need the application to use the database credentials like the username and the password.
You need a safe place to store the user credentials or the database credentials.
What you can do is you can store this as a secret within the Azure Key Vault service.
This is a managed service that can be used to store your secrets.
Your application can then make a secure call on the Azure Key Vault service.
Fetch the value of the password that is the secret, and then use it to connect onto the database.
The keyword service can also be used for storing encryption keys.
There are cases where in applications need to encrypt data.
So in this case they would need to have an encryption key in place.
You can make use of the Azure Key Vault when it comes on to storing and managing the life cycle of the
encryption keys.
Next, when you want to make applications secure through the web protocol, you would want to use certificates
in place.
Now normally if you want to issue certificates you will need to have a certificate manager in place.
Instead of installing and maintaining separate infrastructure for managing the certificates for the
application and for other applications in the company, again, you can use the Azure Key Vault that
can be used for storing and managing certificates.
Now I just want to go through the process of creating an Azure Key Vault.
Here I can choose to create a new resource and in creating the resource I can search for the Key Vault
service.
So I'll search for Key Vault.
We can then create a resource based on the service.
Now in the result, I can make it part of an existing resource group.
I will need to give a unique keyword name.
I can choose my location.
There are different pricing tiers.
We can use the standard pricing tier.
I just want to showcase how do you create the keyword?
There are some measures in place to safeguard the data that you store in the key vault.
So by default this soft delete is enabled.
This allows you to recover a deleted keyword.
Now, in terms of the days to retain the vault, I'll keep the minimum as seven.
Go on to next.
Leave everything as it is.
Go on networking.
Actually, let me go on to access configuration again.
Let me use a vault access policy.
Just making sure that I have complete access.
Okay.
Go on to next.
Then go on to review and create.
And let's go ahead and create the Key Vault.
Let's come back once we have the vault in place.
It'll just take less than a minute to have the vault deployed.
Now, once the deployment is complete, I can go on to the resource.
And here under objects, we have the ability to create our encryption keys.
We have the ability to create our secrets.
And we have the ability to create our certificates.
So as an example I said let's say that an application connects on to a database and the application
needs the database password obviously to connect to the database itself.
What we can do is you can generate a new secret.
So you can say that this is going to store the database password.
And this is stored as a secret.
We can click on create.
And then your application can programmatically call the key Vault service and fetch the value of Dbpassword.
So in this chapter I kind of want to give this quick overview when it comes on to the Key vault service.
Now that we're done, I'll click on delete and delete the Key Vault.

--- Azure Logic Apps ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the usage of Azure Logic Apps.
I'll also showcase a quick example on the usage of the service.
Now this is a cloud platform wherein you can create and run automated workflows.
Instead of you writing code to do something to build a workflow, you can use Azure Logic Apps.
This provides a low code or no code experience when it comes onto building workflows.
So has a very simple example.
I'm going to build an Azure Logic app that will detect when objects are uploaded.
So I have an existing Azure Storage account in place.
I'm going to build an Azure Logic app that will detect whenever an object is uploaded onto a container
in an Azure Storage account, and then send an email to me accordingly.
A very simple workflow.
Now for the email, I'm using a free Outlook.com account.
Now you can go ahead and create a free account when it comes on to Outlook.com.
I said, I've already gone ahead and create a free account.
Let me go ahead and sign in.
So I said I already have or I created an outlook.com account.
I'll just log onto the account.
Where I'm in the inbox of my Outlook.com account.
Now in Azure, what I'll do is let me open up all resources, the link in a new tab.
Let me create a new resource based on the Azure Logic App service.
So in all resources let me go ahead and click on create.
I'll search the marketplace for the Logic App service.
Here I choose to create a resource based on the service.
There are different sort of pricing models.
So we have the workflow service plan, something known as an app service environment and hybrid.
I'll choose the consumption model wherein you pay based on how much you use.
Right.
That should be simple for us.
I'll click on select.
Choose an existing resource group.
Give a unique logic app name.
Choose my location here.
I won't enable Log Analytics.
I'll go on.
Next I'll go on review and create and let's create the logic app.
Now while the Logic app is being deployed, let me go on to my Azure Storage account under Data Storage.
Let me create a new container.
I'll click on create.
Just in the meantime, is it for the logic app?
I'm going to build a very simple workflow in which I'm saying that whenever I upload a blob onto the
storage account onto the container, I should receive an email.
Okay, I can see I already have the logic app in place.
Let me go on to the resource.
We should be able to go onto the Logic App designer.
So under Development tools I can go onto the Logic App Designer.
And here I should be able to build my workflow.
Let me go and just hide this.
To start our workflow we can add something known as a trigger.
So what is going to go ahead and trigger this workflow?
If I click on add a trigger you will see built in connectors in place that can connect on to not only
Azure based services, but onto other software as a service providers as well.
If I search for blob here, we have a trigger which says that whenever a blob is added.
So let me click on this particular trigger.
This will add the trigger action onto the workflow.
And now we need to give the details about how to connect onto the Azure Storage account.
See, normally what you do is in order to build this workflow you would need to write code.
But what's happening here is we have these different components in place, inbuilt components that you
can actually add onto the workflow onto the designer.
Here you don't need to code anything.
Everything is being done for you.
Here what we're doing is we are adding a trigger.
How do you trigger this workflow?
So first we need Azure Logic Apps to authenticate onto the Azure Storage account.
I'm going to authenticate using the access key.
I need to give the storage account name.
And I need to give what is the access key to allow the Logic app to authenticate or authorize itself
to detect the objects within the container.
So I can choose either key one or key two.
I'll click on show for key one, or copy the key onto the clipboard and let's paste it here.
I'll click on Create New to create a new connection.
Then once you have a connection in place, it should now prompt us saying that okay which container.
Let me choose my connection string.
So which container do you want to monitor for incoming blobs.
So I'll choose my data container and let me you know, click on save.
So we have the trigger on to the workflow.
Now let me go ahead and add an additional step.
So I'll add now an action.
Let's click on allow.
I'm going to add an action.
Now what do I want to do after this workflow detects a blob.
Well I want to send an email right on to my outlook account.
Here I'll say send an email version two.
And now I need to give the details about my email.
So first I'll sign in on to my Outlook.com account.
The pop up is being blocked.
I'll allow pop ups.
Click on done.
Click on sign in again.
It should give me the dialog box in which I need to log in.
So let me sign in as exam user 1000.
So my outlook details click on next.
Now I need to give the details about my email.
Now I'll send an email to the same user.
Let us give a subject.
And in the body we should be able to enter data from the previous step.
So based on the previous step and the blob is added, you know, based on the Azure Logic app, the
Azure Logic App workflow can get details about the blob.
So let me get the details of the list of file names.
Very simple.
And this should come up in the body of the email.
Now I'll click on save and once you have the workflow in place, let's do one thing.
Now let's go on to the containers in the Azure Storage account.
I'll go on to my data container and let me upload a file from my local machine.
So I'm just uploading a customer base file for my local machine.
You can upload any file any blob.
Now what this should do is this should trigger the Azure Logic app.
The Logic App workflow should then send an email onto my Outlook.com account.
Let's wait and see if we get an email based on this.
All right.
And just after a few seconds, I received an email.
And in this email we are getting the list of files.
We just upload one file, but we're getting that list as an email onto our Outlook.com account.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to give a very simple use case on using the Azure Logic App service.
Now that I've done, I'm going to go ahead and delete my resources accordingly.

--- Azure Batch Service ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give kind of a very brief overview on the Azure Batch Service.
The Azure Batch service is actually used to run large scale, parallel and high performance computing
batch jobs.
Let's say that, you know, you have a requirement wherein, you know, when you take in, let's say
you have a web application that's hosting web content, you know, online videos.
You have users or instructors who are uploading the videos onto the platform.
You want to take in the videos.
You want to process the videos for any sort of content first.
So you want to take the videos in batches.
You want to process the videos you know accordingly.
So what do you normally do is you would spin up, let's say, a set of virtual machines.
You would have your tools, your applications, whatever is required for processing the videos and you
host it on the set of machines.
So in this case, you know, you need the machines.
Your data is basically the videos and you would need to have applications hosted on the machine.
You need, you know, all of this setup in place just for processing the videos itself, for processing
your data.
Now with the Azure Batch service.
This is a managed service.
The Azure Batch service can actually manage these batch processing jobs.
Azure batch can actually manage the pool of virtual machines that you will use for processing your data.
So in our case, I said let's say that you need to process a set of videos.
The batch service can manage the machines that can be used for processing the data.
The batch service can ensure that whatever application you require is installed on the machine, so
it can provision the machines.
Make sure the virtual machines has the applications installed.
You can use Azure Storage accounts when it comes onto the input files.
The storage of the application and the output file.
Azure batch can manage the tasks and the jobs that need to run on the virtual machines itself.
So if you need a manage batch processing service, you can make use of the Azure Batch Service accordingly.

--- What is Microsoft Entra ID ---

And welcome on to the section wherein we are going to look at the security aspect when it comes on to
Azure.
Now, currently when we have been working with Azure Based Services, we have been logging in with our
Azure admin account via the use of Azure Admin account.
We have been deploying resources onto resource groups within our subscription.
But typically in an organization you will have you will not have the admin account that's going ahead
and creating resources within your Azure account.
What you'll normally do is you will want to create users that map onto users within your organization.
So you might have, let's say, a set of users that relate or map onto the IT administrators within
the company, and the IT administrators would use these user credentials to create or work with resources
on the Azure platform as part of the Azure account.
Now, how do you start creating these users?
Well, you can use the identity provider that's located within Azure and that's known as Microsoft Enter.
Microsoft Enter ID is a cloud based identity and access management service.
This identity service can be used not only for Azure.
It can also be used for Microsoft O365 as well, and even other software as a service.
Applications.
So when we log in onto our Azure account using our admin username and password, Microsoft Enter ID
actually verifies our username and password.
So this is the form of authentication.
Now the next step is after we define users in Microsoft enter ID with users again we can give a username
and a password.
The first step is the IT admins can use these user credentials to authenticate themselves onto the Azure
account.
The next step is authorization Are the users given the required permissions to access the resources
within the Azure account you see within a typical organization, you'll be having probably thousands
of resources deployed across various resource groups deployed across various subscriptions within your
Azure account.
Obviously, we need to decide, okay, which users need access to which resources within the Azure account.
So for this we have to give the required permissions.
So the act of seeing that what permissions are given to a particular user, you know the act of authorization.
This also is conducted by Microsoft.
Enter ID.
We can also define identities that map onto applications.
And there's a lot of security features available in Microsoft.
Enter ID like multi-factor authentication auditing and much more.
So in this chapter, first and foremost want to give an introduction onto Microsoft enter ID.

--- Lab - Creating users in Microsoft Entra ID ---

So now let's go through the process of creating a user within Microsoft.
Enter id I told you so far we've been working with our admin account.
We register this account to create our Azure account and we've been using these credentials to work
with our resources.
I told you, normally in an organization, they would want to create users that map onto users within
their organization.
In order to start working with Microsoft ID, we can go on to the service.
So this is a managed service, a managed identity service.
You don't need to provision any infrastructure, no need of any compute infrastructure.
You can start using the service directly.
In the overview we have the basic information.
Everything comes as part of a default directory.
We can see the primary domain name.
There is something known as licensing.
Currently we have the Microsoft Entry ID free base licenses.
These free base licenses allows us to work with users groups, and there are other aspects available
as well.
But if you need additional security features, then we need to buy additional licenses accordingly.
Now, first and foremost, I can go on to manage.
I can go on to users.
And here we have the ability now to create users within our account.
Currently I only have one user in place.
This is our admin user.
I can go ahead with the process of creating a new user within our account.
So let's create a new user.
So please note here we are not creating a resource.
We are not creating a resource group.
We have gone on to an entirely different service known as Microsoft and ID within our Azure account.
And we are using now this service, this Microsoft ID service to create a user within our account,
you will need to give a user principal name.
This gets appended with the default domain name given on the Microsoft entry ID for our tenant.
So for example, if I want to create a simple username so I'll say user A, I can give the display name.
We can mention our own password.
But please note that.
So if I go ahead and just give a simple password here we have some constraints.
It's saying that the new password must contain characters from at least three out of lowercase characters,
uppercase numbers, or symbols.
At the same time, please note that as part of the default password policy in Microsoft, enter ID,
when the user does login, the initial login process user will login with this particular password you
mentioned here, but they will need to change.
They will need to set their own password.
So let me enter.
First of all a password that adheres to these constraints We are enabling the account.
I can go on to next year.
We can give additional details about the user.
We can give the company name, the job title, the department, so on and so forth.
I'll go on to assignments.
Within assignments, we can add the user as part of something known as a user security group.
We can add something known as a role.
But for now I won't do anything.
Let me go on to review and create and let me go ahead and create this user.
If we click on refresh, we can see our new user in place.
If I click on the user, we are taken on to the user overview page wherein we have the user principal
name and we have other aspects available on the left hand side.
Now within my Azure account currently I have some resources in place.
I have resources such as a virtual machine, a public IP address, a network security group, so on
and so forth.
Now here, let me log in as the new user.
Let me sign in with a different account name.
And here within the users let me copy the user principal name onto the clipboard.
Let me use another account.
So I'll sign in with the details of my new user.
I will click on next.
I will mention the password that I specified for this new user.
And I told you as part of the default password policy in Microsoft Enter ID, we will need to update
our password.
So I'm going to go ahead and mention my current password and then create a new password.
Let me go ahead and sign in.
Now here it's saying that in order to keep your account secure, we need to perform an extra step in
the authentication process in Azure for all new users.
We, you know, when we authenticate onto Azure itself, in addition to the username and password,
we need to also use another method when it comes onto the authentication process.
This is known as multi-factor authentication.
Here we need to use the Microsoft Authenticator app.
Now I'm on my Android device.
You can download the Microsoft Authenticator app on your device.
I'll click on next.
So it's saying that we need to set up our account.
I'll click on next.
So only authenticated device.
Let me choose to add a new account.
This will be a work or school account.
I will now need to scan the QR code.
So I'll go and scan the QR code accordingly.
It has added the account of user A, I'll click on next.
So on my device now it's asking me to enter the number that I can see on my screen.
So I'll enter the number 71.
In my authenticator app I'll click on yes.
And this should now authenticate me onto the Azure platform.
So the notification is approved I'll click on next I'll click on done.
So for new users, in addition to entering a username and a password, we also need to make use of the
Microsoft Authenticator app.
Now what you're going to see is as soon as we log in as the new user, we can't see anything within
our Azure account within all resources.
It's saying an error has occurred when trying to fetch resources.
This is because by default for a new user, they don't have access onto any resources on the Azure platform.
Anyway, for now, let's go ahead and mark an end onto this chapter.

--- Role Based Access Control ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in the prior chapter, we had seen how we could create a user within Microsoft enter ID, but we
had seen that when we log in onto our Azure account has this new user.
This user has no access to resources within Azure.
Now, by default, when a user is created within Microsoft Azure ID, the user has no permissions whatsoever
to access resources within the Azure account.
In order to give access to users to resources within our Azure account, we need to give them access
via the use of role based access control.
So there's something known as role based access control rules that we can assign to users.
There are various inbuilt roles already available, and using these roles we can assign them onto users.
And once we assign those roles, permissions will be given to the users accordingly.
We also have the ability to create our own custom roles as well.
Now when it comes on to roles so we can assign a role at the individual resource level, we can assign
a role at the resource group level.
Now, if we assign a role at the resource group level, it will apply to all resources within the resource
group, we can assign a role at the subscription level.
If we do this, that role will be applied onto all resources within the subscription.
Now, at a broad level, I'm just showcasing four overarching roles that are available.
But apart from this, there are many other inbuilt roles.
These inbuilt roles actually map onto the various services that are available on the Azure platform.
So these overarching roles are.
So we have the owner role.
If you apply or give the owner role onto a user, you're the user would have complete access to be able
to manage the underlying resources.
The user can also delegate access to other users as well.
If we give the contributor role onto a particular user, you're the user would have complete access
to be able to only manage the resources.
If we give the user admin role here, the user can only delegate access to other users.
And then we have the reader role.
By giving this role, the user would only be able to read the properties of resources.
So in this chapter, first and foremost we want to give an introduction onto role based access control.

--- Lab - Role Based Access Control ---

So now, as per our user, the user has no permissions when it comes on to our Azure account.
Let's go ahead and give permissions to our user via the use of role based access control.
Now we can assign roles at the resource level.
We can assign roles at the resource group level or at the subscription level.
Let me go.
At the source level.
So let me go on to app VM as a resource and let me go on to access control.
So the way that we assign roles is by going on to access control.
Here we have the ability to add a role assignment.
So let me click on add a role assignment.
When adding a role assignment you will see all of the inbuilt roles that are available on Azure.
So here we have different roles in place.
We have that overarching reader role that's available here.
And if I go on to the privileged admin roles, we have the owner the contributor, the user access admin
role.
At the same time, we also have other roles in place.
These are based on the various services.
Now as an example, let me choose the reader role.
Let me click on next.
Now we can click on select members.
So we can select the users that we have defined in Microsoft Android.
Let me go and select my user a that I just defined in the prior chapter I'll click on select.
So what are we doing is we are assigning a role.
This is an inbuilt role that's already available.
By giving this role we are allowing this user to access the properties of just this resource, which
is the virtual machine.
I'll click on Review and Assign and we can review and assign the role accordingly.
Now it takes a couple of minutes for the role to take effect.
Let me just wait for a couple of minutes if we go on to role assignments.
Okay.
This is for the app VM machine.
I'll click on refresh.
Here I can see that I have user A that has been given the reader role.
I said, let's just wait for a couple of minutes and then come back.
Now after waiting for a couple of minutes, let me go on to all resources.
Again.
This is as user A or click on refresh.
So again let me try to go onto all resources.
So I'm logged in as user A.
And now I can see my app VM resource in place.
If I go on to the app VM resource itself.
So here I can see the size of the machine.
I can see that it is in the running state.
So we can see the properties of the virtual machine itself.
But what you'll notice is we can't see the public IP address assigned onto the machine.
We can't see the virtual network.
The machine is part of.
It's not because there is a problem with this page.
Like if I click on refresh, nothing is going to happen.
See, we have only given access reader access to this particular user at the resource level.
In order to read the public IP address, remember this is another resource in Azure.
Remember the virtual network is another resource in Azure.
All of this is different.
If I go onto the network settings for the VM, you can see we're getting an error.
It's saying you don't have the required access.
So what we can do is I can actually now go on to the resource group that's holding all of my resources.
I can go on to the resource group itself that's holding my virtual machine and the other resources.
I can go on to access control here itself, and I can add a role assignment.
So now we're adding a role assignment at the resource group level.
When we do this.
This rule will apply on to all resources within the resource group.
So as an example, let me give the reader rule.
I'll click on next.
Again select my members, select user A, click on select.
Go on to review and assign and review and assign again.
And I said it takes some time for the rule to take effect.
Please note that you can give multiple roles to the same user, the same identity, to a resource,
to a resource group.
That is possible.
It's not that you can just assign one role to a user at a time onto a resource.
You can assign multiple roles at a time.
Now let me just wait for a couple of minutes and then come back.
Now after waiting for a few minutes has user A if I can go onto all resources and click on refresh.
Now I can see all of the resources in place and if I go on to on RPM.
We should be able to see the public IP address, and the virtual network is just taking time to appear
here.
But I'm seeing in some time you should be able to see if I go on to the network settings.
It's still giving me the error.
I said.
Sometimes it takes time to refresh.
If you want, you can refresh this entire page.
I'll copy this URL onto another tab and log in as user A.
Sometimes you need to log off and log in.
Normally that's not the case because it just takes time.
What you can do is you can log in onto another tab in the browser, just to make sure that it refreshes
all of these settings.
Going on to app VM again.
Now I can see the public IP address, the virtual network, etc. and if I go on to the network settings,
I should be able to see the settings now accordingly.
Now as user A, if I try to stop the VM, if I click on stop, I should be getting an error.
And the reason for this is we have given the reader all.
The reader role does not have the permission to modify the properties of the resource itself.
So we can't stop the VM.
So these are these different permissions that you can apply for your users via the use of role based
access control.
Now that we are done, in case if you want to perform a cleanup, it is always very, very good in terms
of cleaning up your roles.
Go on to your resource group.
Go on to Role assignments.
Click on the required role.
Delete the assignment.
So we have done that at the resource group level.
If I go onto all resources and go onto APM just to confirm again, I'll go on to access control, go
on to the role assignment and delete the one at the individual resource level.
Right.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Note on defining groups in Microsoft Entra ID ---

In this chapter, I just want to give a note when it comes on to using security groups.
We have looked at defining users in Microsoft Enter ID, we had seen how we could give permissions via
the use of role based access control.
Now, let's say that you want to give access to a set of users a similar role.
Now, instead of giving the role or assigning the role on a user by user basis, what you can do is
you can create something known as a new security group within Microsoft.
And ID once you create the group, you can then assign the users or to the group.
And then you can apply role based access control to your security groups.
And once you do that, those roles will be reflected onto the users that are part of the security group
itself.
It's a very simple process, I said, so I could give, for example, a group name.
We could select our members, so I could select user A, so if I go on to users, I can select user
A.
To be part of this group I can click on create.
And then once you have this group in place, if I click on refresh, I can see the security group.
Now if I go on to my resource group.
If I go on to app GRP, if I go on to access control, if I try to add a role assignment.
So I'll try to add the role assignment of the reader role I'll click on next.
If I click on select members here.
Now I can see in addition to being able to provide access to user A, I can also provide access to Group
A as well.
And instead of giving access on a user by user basis, if you need to give the similar permissions to
a set of users, create a security group.
Add the users as part of the group and then assign the role at the group level.
Okay.
Quickly, if you want to perform a cleanup, I'll go back onto Microsoft and ID, I'll go on to groups
and let me go ahead and delete my group so I can go on to all groups.
Click on the group itself and click on delete.

--- Quick note on MFA ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to give again that quick note when it comes on to multi-factor authentication.
We had already performed this process for our new user.
So for our new user, in order to log into the Azure account, in addition to providing the username
and a password the user had to set up, you know, the authenticator app on their mobile device.
They would get a security code and then they would, you know, once they match the security code on
the mobile device, then it would complete the authentication process.
This entire process of adding an extra level of, you know, authentication mechanism or to the entire
process is known as multi-factor authentication.
So multi-factor authentication adds that extra layer of security on top of the username and password
to make the authentication process much more secure in nature.
We can enable also multi-factor authentication on a per user basis.
But I said by default it's already enabled for all users in Azure.
We also have the ability to manage the entire process.
While these are something known as conditional access policies.
Again, just want to give this quick note when it comes onto multi-factor authentication.

--- Microsoft Entra ID licensing ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give an introduction when it comes on to licensing for Microsoft Entra
within our Azure account.
We understand that we can use Microsoft Android when it comes on to an identity provider.
Here within Microsoft Enter ID, we can create our users.
We can create our groups.
Microsoft Enter ID as a platform is responsible for the process of both authentication and authorization
by default.
When it comes on to the licensing, we get Microsoft Entra ID free licenses, but we have additional
licenses in place when it comes onto Microsoft entra itself.
See Microsoft Entra is this entire suite of products.
It's not only Microsoft Enter ID, so we have to consider, you know, from a beginner aspect, we need
to understand that, okay, we have our Azure account.
Within Azure we make use of services like virtual machines SQL databases Is okay.
We deploy resources and then we have the pay as you go model wherein we pay based on our usage.
So that's one thing.
Then in another chapter I talked about the various support plans when it comes onto Azure.
So if a company needs additional support from technical engineers within Microsoft, they can opt for
using one of the available support plans.
And then we have this concept of licensing.
So I said with Microsoft Entra it's an entire suite of products.
And you have to remember that Microsoft Entra is not only used for Azure, Microsoft Entra is also used
for other products like Microsoft 365.
Hence, we have these different licensing capabilities in place.
So on this page they give you some of the licenses that are available.
So I said by default we get the Microsoft Enter ID free base licenses.
We also have Microsoft Enter id p1 based licenses P2 based licenses.
These are the premium based licenses.
We have Microsoft Entrance suite.
If you scroll down, you will see what are the features that are given as part of the Microsoft Free
based licenses.
What's given as part of Microsoft and ID, P1 and P2.
Now, for example, there is a feature known as conditional access, which is quite important when it
comes on to security for an organization.
We can see that this particular feature is available when it comes onto the P1 based licenses and the
P2 based licenses.
So we can go ahead and opt for these different types of licenses.
Obviously there is a cost.
So when it comes onto Microsoft onto P1 and P2, there is a cost per user per month.
Now we can sign up for trial licenses when it comes on Microsoft Entra ID premium based licenses.
In the next set of chapters, we'll go through an attempt on how we can try to activate these trial
based licenses.
But first, as an introduction, I want to go through this concept that we do have licenses in place
when it comes onto Microsoft entra.

--- Subscribing onto Trial Licenses ---

Now, in order to showcase an example on how we can subscribe on to trial licenses.
When it comes onto Microsoft Entra ID premium based licenses, I'm using one of my other Azure accounts
within this Azure account.
Currently, in terms of the license, I have Microsoft enter ID free licenses.
The only difference with this account is that I've already finished off my initial 30 days when it comes
onto the free trial.
So now I'm using the pay as you go model.
So the reason I'm using this particular account is, I believe with the free trial account during the
first 30 days, it becomes I don't think it's possible to actually acquire these trial licenses because
there is a particular procedure on how we can get those trial licenses.
So first and foremost, in this particular chapter.
I want to go through that procedure.
Now, please note that from an exam perspective, you are not required to go in and, you know, get
trial licenses.
You should have knowledge on, okay, how do we apply or how do we assign licenses to users.
And then obviously to assign licenses we need to have licenses in place.
Also in a subsequent chapter, we need to look at an example of a feature, a security feature in Microsoft
Entra that's known as conditional access.
And for conditional access we need Microsoft Android premium licenses.
In this chapter, I first want to go through how do you create a user.
So within Microsoft Android we will need to create a new user.
And then using this new user details we will need to subscribe on to those trial licenses.
So within users you need to go ahead and create a new user.
So you can give a name for the user.
Give the display name.
You can change the password.
Go on to next.
Now in assignments you need to add a role assignment.
There are these different roles within Microsoft Entra ID that give you specific permissions to kind
of manage this entire directory or tenant.
This is different from the roles that you've seen when it comes onto Azure based services.
So if you want to get access to, let's say, a storage account or you want to get access to a virtual
machine, that is role based access control, these roles are specific onto Microsoft Android on managing
the entire tenant.
So for example, there is a role of the user administrator.
This allows you to manage users and groups within your directory.
For us to make our things very simple, I'm going to assign the global admin role to this particular
user.
So we're giving a role to this user.
You can go on to review and create and create the user accordingly.
Now what I've already done is I have created the user.
So I've created one user known as admin user.
So admin user add the rate my default domain name for my tenant.
So the first step is to go and create the user.
The next step in order to manage licenses we need to go on to another URL or another portal.
So this is known as the Microsoft 365 Admin Center.
You need to go on to admin Microsoft.com and then when you log in right, you need to log in with the
username and password.
Login has that new user.
So here I'm logged in as admin user at the rate that default domain name.
Right.
So step number one I say this is all to go about trying to get trial licenses when it comes onto Microsoft
enter ID premium based licenses.
Step number one is to create a new user.
That new user needs to be given a role.
To make things very simple, I have assigned the global admin role.
Step number two is to go onto admin Microsoft.com login onto admin Docs.microsoft.com using the new
user details.
Step number three.
Go onto the Microsoft 365 Admin center under billing.
Go on to billing accounts and make sure that you have a billing account in place.
So the billing account just is used for obviously your bills when it comes on to the purchase of licenses
as part of your account in Microsoft.
365 Admin Center.
You know, here you can manage your users, you can manage your groups.
If we look at the active users, you will see the same users that are present in Microsoft and ID within
your Azure account.
So here in the default directory in my Azure account, I can see I have two users in place.
One is my main admin user, the other is the admin user that I just created.
And you'll see the users here as well.
We have different interfaces that can interact with our default directory.
So we have Azure that has Microsoft Inter ID.
And here we have this admin center that is used to manage everything about Microsoft three.
65 in terms of administration.
So in this admin center again we can see our users.
We can see our groups.
But at the same time we can also manage licenses.
So this is step number three.
Make sure you have a billing account in place.
Now step number four is you need to go on to payment methods and you need to add a payment method.
So here you need to add the details of either a debit card or a credit card.
Now please note that the addition of the payment detail or the method is only used as a security mechanism.
You are not going to be charged for those trial licenses.
But when you do add the payment method of the credit card, then you initially just charge 1 USD.
But I don't believe the charge goes fully against the credit card.
I believe it's reversed.
I think this is only used as a security check, just to make sure that you are an authentic user.
Hence, we do have a payment method in place, so you can go ahead and add the details of a debit card
or a credit card here.
Right.
So that's the next step to make sure that we have a payment method in place.
Once we have everything in place we can go on to the marketplace.
And here we should be able to search.
So let me go on all products.
Let me search for premium P2 based licenses and hit on enter.
I'll scroll down.
So if I scroll down under Security and Identity I can see Microsoft Entra id p2 managed trial.
I'll click on the details.
And now within the details we should be able to subscribe for those trial licenses.
Here we get 100 licenses that we can assign onto users.
These licenses are valid for a duration of 30 days.
After the 30 days is complete.
Please note that you are not going to be charged for these licenses.
If you need to continue using these licenses, you will need to buy the licenses accordingly.
When it comes on to P2 based licenses, I believe the cost right now is 9 USD per user per month, whereas
it.
Once the trial is over, you are not going to be charged.
Okay, let's click on start the Free trial and see if we can subscribe onto these licenses.
Note that your billing account needs to be proper.
Your payment method needs to be proper in order to proceed with getting these trial licenses.
So now on the next screen, because all of my details are intact, I get the ability to click on try
now.
And now it is processing with the order wherein we should get the trial licenses when it comes on to
premium based licenses, right?
This is done.
If I go on to my default directory, you know, after some time the license here should change because
we have subscribed on to those premium based licenses.
If I just go ahead and open the link in a new tab.
So let's log in as the Azure admin for this particular account.
So please know that I'm using another account just because I'm using the pay as you go subscription
model.
So now you can see that in terms of the license we have Microsoft Entra ID p2 based licenses.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the process of how we can subscribe onto these trial licenses.

--- Assigning a license to a user ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to showcase how we can assign a license onto a user.
So I said, when it comes on to Microsoft, they have different licenses in place when it comes on to
Microsoft.
And so they have a different variety of products, you know, in which you can buy licenses.
Azure is a platform.
And on that platform you can use a pay as you go model to work with the various services.
But Microsoft as a whole has a lot of product offerings.
And for these different products, they have different licenses.
So one set of licenses is based on Microsoft Entra.
Or when it comes on to enter ID we have these premium based licenses that gives us more security features.
So once you subscribe or you buy licenses, you can then assign licenses to users.
Now, as an example, your IAM logged into one of my Azure accounts.
I'm logged in as the Azure Admin.
Let me go on to users and let me create a new user.
So I'll give a very simple user principal name.
I'll mention my own password.
Go on to next.
Now in order to assign a license onto a user, when you create the user or even later on, you have
to mention the usage location of the user.
So let me go and mention a usage location.
I'll go on review and create, and I'm going to go ahead and create this new user.
In order to manage licenses, in order to assign licenses, we need to manage them from the Microsoft
365 Admin center.
So if I go on to the admin center under users, I can see user zero one in place.
Remember, this particular admin center again connects me on to the same Microsoft tenant.
And at the tenant level we can see the users within our directory.
So whatever I see in the Azure portal I can also see it here in the admin center.
Now I need to go on to the user itself within the user for the configuration of the user.
We can go on to licenses and apps.
And here we can assign licenses.
You can see that when it comes onto the licenses.
We have 100 that are available.
I can assign the Microsoft Enter ID database license onto this user and click on Save Changes.
You can see the expiry when it comes on to when the trial will end for your licenses, right?
So in this chapter, I just want to kind of go through how you can assign a license onto a user.

--- Conditional Access Policies ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I briefly want to go through conditional access, and I want to give an example
on implementing something known as conditional access policy.
Now we know that we can define users in Microsoft.
Android users can authenticate onto our Azure account.
So when we create a new user, normally the process is they enter a username and a password.
And then using the Microsoft Authenticator app they have that additional level of security.
Now with conditional access, we can go a step further in terms of giving access to resources.
Your conditional access uses multiple signals to come to a decision whether a user should be allowed
access to a particular service.
Now, to use conditional access, we do need the appropriate licenses in place or the minimum requirement
is Microsoft Enter ID p1 based licenses.
I'm going to go on to one of my existing accounts as part of this account.
I have subscribed on to trial licenses when it comes onto Microsoft enter id p2 based licenses.
Now if I go on to users, I have three users in place.
Currently, all of the users can log into the Azure portal.
Now what I want to do is I'm going to go on to my default directory.
Go on to security.
And within security under protect there's something known as conditional access.
Here we can add something known as a conditional access policy.
So let me go ahead and create a new policy.
Here.
We can give a policy name.
And then we can define different conditions.
So based on these conditions or based on these signals access can be granted to users accordingly.
So I said just as an example here I can select okay for which set of users does this policy need to
cater to.
So for example, if I just choose user one, let me select certain users and groups.
And here let me select user one who I have defined within Microsoft Enter ID.
So I'll click on select.
So this policy now only includes this particular user.
But normally for conditional access you will include a group of users.
I'm keeping this very very simple wherein I'm only including one user as part of this policy.
Then we can target certain Resources.
Now, in terms of the target resources, as part of this policy, we can say that, okay, let's grant
access to the user to a particular resource here.
If I click on Select Resources and in the select let me go and search for you know here we can search
for different applications.
But here there is one application known as the Microsoft Admin Portal.
So here what I'm trying to say is that this particular policy is linked to the user.
That's user zero one and only if user zero one fulfills certain conditions then they can be granted
access to the Microsoft Admin portal.
Let me click on select.
So we have many applications that we can choose as part of this policy.
We can decide on various conditions based on the user risk level, on the sign in risk level, so on
and so forth.
Since this is a beginner course, we're not going to go through all of those controls.
And then finally, as part of access, we can go on to Grant and we can say grant access, but we require
multi-factor authentication, or we require the user to join in from a Microsoft Entra Hybrid join device.
So here as an example, I am choosing the grant of block access.
So if someone is trying to log in as user zero, 1 or 2, the Microsoft Admin portal, they should not
be granted access.
I'll click on select.
I'll enable the policy and click on create.
Now once you have the policy in place what I'll do is in another tab let me log in as user zero one.
So I'll use another account.
Let me log in as user zero one.
And here we're getting a message saying that you don't have access to log in to the Azure account because
we have that conditional access policy in place.
So the entire idea of conditional access is you look at certain signals okay.
If a user is logging in with certain credentials, you can also say if the user is logging in from an
unknown location, if the user is trying to access the Azure portal, then decide do you want to grant
or block access?
So in this chapter, I want to give this quick example on conditional access policies.
Now just to make sure that I go back onto my default settings within conditional access, I'll go onto
policies for my user defined policy.
I'll go on to the context menu and click on delete.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Passwordless authentication ---

In this chapter, I want to give this quick note when it comes on to the passwordless authentication
options that's available for Microsoft enter ID now, when it comes to authenticating onto Microsoft
Enter ID, so normally we use a username and a password for my admin account.
Sometimes when I log in, it sends me a code onto my email.
And we've also looked at the concept of multi-factor authentication.
So when we create a new user in Microsoft Entra.
So by default they would need to set up, let's say the Microsoft Authenticator app has an extra level
of security, that extra level when it comes onto the authentication process.
But there is also that possibility of setting up a passwordless authentication method, wherein you
don't need to enter a username and a password.
Instead, you can use a mechanism that's given on this page where you can directly log into, let's
say, your Azure account using Microsoft Enter ID for example, we can use Windows Hello for business.
So if we do have a windows device that's already registered when it comes onto Windows Hello for business.
So you log into your windows device and then that same login credentials can be used to log into, let's
say your Azure account.
If you have the Microsoft Authenticator app, you can directly use this.
So you don't need to use your password directly.
You can use the Microsoft Authenticator app to log into your Azure account.
So I should note that this is not used as an extra level of security.
This is just used to replace that concept of using a username and a password.
So this is the passwordless means of authentication.
From the perspective of the exam, it is important to understand that this particular feature is available
with Microsoft enter ID for more information, you can go on to this documentation page.

--- Microsoft Entra ID - Inviting external identities ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the concept of being able to invite external users when
it comes on to your directory.
Within Azure, we have seen that we can create users as part of our directory.
We have seen that we can provide access or give permissions to these users via the use of role based
access control.
Let's say that you have users who you want to invite onto your directory.
Give them temporary access to resources.
So these could be users that are part of, let's say, another directory or part of another account,
or maybe they're just part of another identity provider.
You want to, you know, instead of creating a duplicate user, right, another user within your directory
itself, you basically invite the external user and then you can give them permissions accordingly.
So as an example, I have an external email account in Outlook.com.
And what I can do is I can actually go ahead and invite that external user.
So here I am logged on to the external outlook account.
So let's say you want to go ahead and invite this external user.
This user is, you know, having a user ID of exam user 1008 Outlook.com.
I said instead of creating a new user within your directory and giving them access, maybe you want
to invite this external user.
What we can do is we can go on to our directory in Microsoft and ID under users.
I have the ability to invite an external user so I can go ahead and invite the external user.
I can give the entire email ID.
Give the display name.
We can send an invite message and we have something known as an invite redirect URL.
If you want, you can redirect the user onto the Azure portal.
I'll go on to view and invite the user accordingly.
If I click on refresh right, I can see the guest user in place and like other users, we can go ahead
and provide access here.
If I go on to the external email address, I can see I have received that email invitation.
I can go ahead and accept the invitation accordingly.
You're saying in order now to access the account, in order to access the default directory, Microsoft
ID is asking for permissions in terms of receiving the profile data, collecting and logging activity.
Using profile data and activity data, I can go ahead and click on accept.
Login as exam user.
And I'm directed onto the Azure portal.
Now what I just need to do here is I just need to go ahead and switch my directory.
Switch on to the default directory.
And I should be logged in onto the Azure account.
Here.
It's saying to sign in with MFA because there is an MFA requirement.
Again this is the process for a new user.
But here I want to showcase how we can invite an external user onto our account.
Now that we are done, I'll perform a cleanup by deleting the external user.

--- Microsoft Entra Domain Services ---

Now, in this chapter, I just want to give kind of a brief overview when it comes on to a service known
as Microsoft Intra Domain services.
This actually provides a managed service when it comes onto maintaining your domain controllers.
Now in an on premises network, companies might make use of a tool known as Microsoft Active Directory
for maintaining users.
Now on Azure, when it comes on to an identity provider, we have Microsoft Enter ID.
In Microsoft ID, we can define users.
We can, you know, give permissions via the use of role based access control.
But before the advent of the cloud, before the advent of Microsoft enter ID, a company only had the
facility to define users within their on premises networks.
If they had to do this, then they would use various tools available.
One of the tools is Microsoft Active Directory.
Now using Microsoft Active Directory, you would install that tool or role or service on a set of machines.
The initial set of machines would be known as domain controllers.
These controllers would have objects that pertain onto the users that are defined within your organization
and other objects such as your machines, your computers, etc..
Now, in case if you can't migrate your users onto Microsoft enter ID, there could be a variety of
reasons, but you want to have an instance of, you know, a domain service on Azure instead of you
installing the required tools on virtual machines hosting domain controllers, you can use a managed
service of Microsoft Entra Domain Services.
This provides many services like domain join group policies.
These features are not available by default in Microsoft Enter ID, so if you want these features,
maybe a company is already using such features in their on premises identity solution.
And if they want to continue using this on Azure and they don't want to maintain the infrastructure,
they can make use of Microsoft Entra Domain Services.

--- Microsoft Defender for Cloud ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Microsoft Defender for cloud service.
This service helps to protect your application workloads.
Here you have workload protection when it comes onto servers.
When it comes onto databases, storage, containers, etc. protection is also available not only for
Azure but for other cloud platforms as well, and even for your on premises workloads.
So this is a service that actually helps you to increase the security posture of your resources within
Azure.
By default, you can use this service for free for 30 days.
Then after that, we need to go ahead and pay for different payment plans if you want to make full use
of the service.
We have different paid plans in place.
In order to start using this, we need to go ahead and enable Microsoft Defender for cloud for our subscription.
So if we you go on to your Azure account here on the left hand side we have this Microsoft Defender
for cloud service.
And in the overview you will see what is the security posture for the resources within your Azure subscription.
You can also get recommendations on how to improve the security of your Azure account.
So here you'll get recommendations based on how to improve.
Let's say for the identities that you define in Microsoft and ID, how do you improve the security for
your Azure virtual machines?
But I said all of these features you will get once you enable this for your subscription.
At the same time, you can use Microsoft Defender for cloud for free for 30 days as a trial version,
but then after that you have to start paying for it.
I said there are different plans in place for the different services that Microsoft Defender has support
for.
In this chapter, I want to give this quick overview when it comes onto Microsoft Defender for cloud.

--- Quick look at Microsoft Sentinel ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to give a brief overview of a service known as Microsoft Sentinel.
This is a scalable, cloud native security information and event management system.
It provides features such as security, orchestration, automation, and response.
With this service, what you can do is you can start collecting data from your users devices, applications,
your infrastructure.
Within Microsoft Sentinel, you have various data connectors in place.
These connectors can connect onto both Azure based services and onto other software as a service providers
as well.
Once you get that data in place via the use of data connectors, so you actually collect the data within
a log analytics workspace.
Once you get that data in place, you can make use of Microsoft Sentinel to actually detect and investigate
threats.
Microsoft Sentinel has in-built threat intelligence that helps to detect malicious activities.
You can also get interactive workbooks, interactive visual reports on the ingested data.
If you want to have a quick look onto Microsoft Sentinel.
So what you can do is if I go on to all resources in order to make use of Microsoft Sentinel, we need
to have a log analytics workspace in place in all resources.
I can go ahead and create a new resource based on Log Analytics workspace.
Here I can create a resource based on the service.
I can select an existing resource group.
I can give a unique workspace name in North Europe.
Let me go on to review and create and create this workspace.
Let's wait till we have the workspace in place.
Now, once the deployment of the workspace is complete here in these services, I can search for the
Sentinel service.
So Microsoft Sentinel.
We can deploy this solution on top of if I click on create.
So we can deploy the solution on top of an existing log analytics workspace.
You can see that.
You can see that you get a free trial when it comes onto Microsoft Sentinel for 31 days.
Let me choose my Log Analytics workspace and click on add.
So since we are trying to add a solution on top of our existing workspace.
Now once you have Microsoft Sentinel in place here on top of our Log Analytics workspace, we can use
the different data connectors.
If we go on to Data Hub you will see these different data connectors in place.
For example we have data connectors that can also collect data from, let's say, Amazon Web Services.
We can collect data from Azure Activity Logs, so on and so forth.
So we can configure these data connectors to start ingesting data within the log Analytics workspace.
Then once we get the data in place under threat management we have something known as threat intelligence
which has the ability to detect threats within the underlying data.
We can also create various analytical rules that can again look at the ingested data and look for any
sort of threats.
So here with this particular solution you are gathering data from a variety of data sources.
You know, based on all of your log data.
And you want this tool to go and search in this data.
For, I said, any sort of threats that are coming in from the outside world onto your services, right.
Now that you're done, what I'll do is I'll go on to my Log Analytics workspace and delete that resource
accordingly.

--- Azure DDoS protection ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Azure DDoS Protection service.
So let's say that a company is hosting a web application.
This could be on a set of Azure VMs.
This could be on an Azure Web app.
Let's consider that this web application is a public facing web application.
So it's exposed onto the internet.
Now obviously if it is exposed on the internet it's also prone to attacks from the internet itself.
So one such attack is the DDoS attack a distributed denial of service attack.
So what happens is you'll have a malicious user that might have bots installed on multiple client devices.
These bots can add a shot, you know, send requests, multiple requests onto our application on our
infrastructure here.
The entire idea is to deny service to other users.
So these bots, I said, will continuously fire requests and try to flood our application with requests
so that the underlying infrastructure is, you know, under so much pressure that it's not able to withstand
the request and hence the application cannot service other users.
So this is an example of a distributed denial of service attack.
For this we can make use of the Azure DDoS protection service.
We have protection available at two levels.
One is at the network level.
So this includes a prediction for a set of public IP resources.
We also have protection for an individual public IP resource as well.
Some of the features available as part of DDoS protection are.
First of all, your application traffic is monitored 24 by seven to check for any sort of attacks.
You get real time metrics when an attack does take place and you get access to a rapid response team.
Briefly, if you go on to the pricing for Azure DDoS protection.
So we have pricing at the network layer.
This is around $3,000 per month.
And there are other charges as well.
And an IP protection level.
The charge is around 1.99 USD per month.
So in this chapter, briefly want to go through the Azure DDoS protection service.

--- Azure Firewall ---

Now, in this chapter, I just want to give kind of a brief overview on another service known as the
Azure Firewall Service.
In an earlier section, we had looked at network security groups that are in place for Azure Virtual
Machines.
The network security groups can filter the incoming and the outgoing traffic at the network layer.
There, you could associate the NSG with either a subnet or a network interface, but normally an organization
would want to have a full fledged firewall appliance in place to protect their resources in networks.
See, what you can do is you can install a firewall appliance from an external vendor onto, you know,
Azure VMs within a virtual network.
These firewalls can be used to look at the incoming traffic, detect any sort of threats or vulnerabilities,
you know, any sort of incoming requests that could pose a threat to the applications running within
a virtual network.
Instead of you managing the infrastructure, managing the appliance.
We can make use of the Azure Firewall Service.
The Azure Firewall Service is a managed service that can be used to look at incoming requests that are
coming in and flowing out of the network.
It can inspect the requests.
It can check if the requests are coming in from bad actors, and if so, it can go ahead and block the
request.
We can deploy this Azure Firewall as a managed service onto our virtual network, so it can be used
to protect our entire virtual network.
The Azure Firewall appliance is actually deployed onto a separate empty subnet within the virtual network,
and it can be used to protect the resources running within the virtual network itself.
So if you want to have a managed service when it comes onto the firewall, we can make use of the Azure
Firewall service accordingly.

--- Concept of Zero Trust ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through this concept when it comes to zero trust.
This is basically a security strategy.
It's not a product or a service, but just an approach in designing, you know, kind of security for
your applications or your workloads running on, you know, could be on premise.
It could be on a cloud platform.
Here.
These are based on these three important principles.
First, you have the principle of verify explicitly who always authenticate and authorize the requests
are coming in.
So for example, if you have a, you know, users who have the responsibility of maintaining resources
within your Azure account, make sure that those user accounts are protected.
You can make use of conditional access policies to add that extra layer of security.
You can make sure that you have rules in place via the use of role based access control to give the
required permissions in terms of authorization.
Then use the least privilege access you know.
With role based access control, you can define your own custom roles.
So in those own custom roles, you can only give the permissions that are required to users.
There are other features available in Azure.
For example, there's something known as just in time access, wherein users can ask for permission
to access a virtual machine only when required.
The third principle is to always assume a breach, so try to minimize your blast radius and your segment
access.
For example, if you have a set of Azure Virtual machines, instead of assigning a public IP address
to each and one of the machines which can increase the exposure onto the internet, you might consider
maybe, you know, having a load balancing solution in front of the machines.
If you need connectivity to the machines, you can use other services like Azure Bastion.
So here the concept of zero trust is just make sure that as much as possible, you design security at
the forefront when it comes onto your workloads.
And I said this could be on premise.
This could be on your cloud platform.

--- Pricing Calculator ---

Right now in this section, we are going to be looking at concepts when it comes on to Azure management
and governance.
In the first set of chapters, we are going to touch upon some of the costing aspects.
In this chapter, I want to go through the Azure Pricing Calculator that's available free of cost.
Now let's say that a company wants to start using Azure.
They want to start using Azure services.
They want to get an idea when it comes onto the pricing the costing for hosting Azure resources.
So let's say they want to host an application on an Azure VM.
They want to host a SQL database.
They want to make use of Azure storage accounts.
They want to get an idea in terms of the hourly or monthly cost.
They can make use of the pricing calculator.
Again it's free of cost.
You don't have to have an Azure account for this.
Just go ahead and go on to this particular link.
And then you get this sort of page where you can see the pricing calculator.
Now, I said, let's say that you want to make use of a virtual machine.
So let's click on virtual machines.
What this will do is this will actually add the virtual machine onto this particular page.
Actually you'll see it down in a moment's time.
But before that let me also choose the Azure SQL database just as an example.
And storage accounts.
So I've added these three services onto the pricing calculator.
Let me go ahead.
And now scroll down.
Now here we're getting an estimate on a monthly aspect.
We know that when it comes onto virtual machines, the cost depends upon the amount of time the machine
is going to run.
So here there is an assumption that you want to run one virtual machine for 730 hours for the month.
This is the instance size, so it's already chosen an instance size.
But you can always go ahead and change the instance size.
Then on the type.
So it's only based on the OS.
And we're choosing the windows operating system.
And always remember the cost also depends upon the region.
So you can choose your region.
Now I'll scroll down.
It's telling based on the compute.
So these are the costs.
The average cost the average per month is around 137 USD.
This is the pay as you go pricing and the license is included.
If a company already has a software agreement with Microsoft based on existing server based licenses,
you can make use of the Azure Hybrid benefit and get a discount.
So now I can see that there's a reduction in the price per month.
Also, there are options wherein you can make a reservation.
Remember we discussed about this.
We can reserve the pricing for a one year or a three year term.
If, for example, I choose a one year term, again, we can see a reduction in terms of the cost.
Now for the VM, we also need the disk, the underlying disk for the VM itself.
Here we can decide on the size of the disk.
So here it's choosing a size of 32 gigs standard HDD.
If you want better performance we have to choose standard SSD.
We can choose the redundancy.
Again we can choose the size and you will see the price per month.
So if you want one disk go ahead and add the disk onto the pricing calculator.
There is also the charge when it comes onto the storage transactions.
So currently I'm not adding anything here and the bandwidth, because when it comes on to these storage
transactions and maybe the bandwidth, we don't have an idea on what exactly would be the amount of
data transfer we would probably need to see this when we start deploying resources onto the Azure platform.
So this is when it comes onto the VM cost.
Now comes the Azure SQL database.
You will see the monthly cost given here.
Now this monthly cost is based on obviously the region.
What is the purchasing model that we're using.
So here it's choosing the V Corps base purchasing model.
So there are two purchasing models that are available.
One is V Corps and the other is database transaction units.
So the database transaction units is a bit less.
But if we want a database in a production based environment, we would need to choose basically either
standard or premium service tier in terms of DTU.
Else we choose the Vcore based purchasing model for the Azure SQL database.
You can choose again.
What is the, you know, the model that you want in terms of compute.
Then obviously we have the underlying storage that's required for the database.
What is the backup storage that's required if you need any sort of retention.
So you will see all these parameters that you can configure when it comes to Azure SQL database.
Similarly we have the parameters that are required when it comes onto Azure Storage accounts.
So if you want to get an indicative pricing per month for services on Azure, we can make use of the
pricing calculator.
What you can do is you can choose the services from top and for each and every service, you know,
they're giving the parameters that, you know, um, contribute onto the cost.
You can configure them accordingly and get kind of an indicative pricing per month for the services.

--- Total cost of ownership ---

Now, the prior chapter, I'd gone through the concept or the usage of the pricing calculator, wherein
you can get an indicative pricing for using Azure services.
Another character that's available from Azure is the total cost of ownership.
Again, this is free of cost to use.
You don't need to have an Azure account to use the total Cost of ownership calculator.
Now let's say that a company wants to migrate workloads onto Azure, and you need to devise a business
case to justify, you know, the costs that the company would need to bear in order to migrate their
workloads onto Azure.
Yes, there is definitely that assumption that the, you know, you'll get a reduction in cost by having
your workloads running in Azure rather than running them in your on premises data center.
But then you need to have a business case in place to justify that.
Yes, over a period of time, by running the workloads in Azure, you will get significant cost savings
when compared with running those same workloads in your on premises data center in order to get the
sort of report.
In order to build that business case, you can make use of the total cost of ownership calculator.
You what you can do is you can define the workloads that you want to migrate onto Azure, or you want
to host on the Azure platform.
For example, I want to host, let's say a server workload.
So you can give a workload name.
You can decide on the server okay.
Windows Linux.
Do you have a physical server or a virtual machine?
It's based on what OS the amount of servers.
Let's say I want to migrate two servers and the number of processors per server.
And we also have the number of cores as well.
So let's put the max here and the amount of Ram.
So these are the specs of let's say the server that you want to migrate onto Azure.
So obviously you're going to make use of an Azure VM in this particular case.
But I said let's say that in your on premises data center you have this physical server in place and
you want to migrate the workloads on this physical server.
Onto Azure.
Now maybe you also have a database that you need to migrate.
This database, let's say is based on Microsoft SQL server.
You have an enterprise license is hosted on a physical server.
Then you can say we have two servers to migrate.
What are the number of procs per server?
What are the number of cores per proc?
What is the amount of Ram?
You can actually specify all of these configuration aspects when it comes to the workload that you need
to migrate onto Azure.
And what is the destination?
So I'll leave it as it is.
Then maybe you need to also provision some storage instead of using the on premises storage.
You know the storage devices you want to make use of storage on Azure, you can decide on the disk type,
the capacity, so on and so forth.
I'll leave everything as it is.
And once you have decided on okay, what are the workloads, I'll scroll down.
Let's say you have here let's say that you have an outbound bandwidth.
I'll just choose the UK South location.
This as an example.
Let's click on next.
So the first step is to define your workloads.
The next step is to adjust the assumptions.
On this page there are assumptions wherein it's assuming that you already have an agreement with Microsoft
when it comes onto Windows Server and SQL server.
If you do have agreements in place, you can actually get discounts when it comes onto the licensing
aspect.
So if you don't have that coverage in place, go ahead and toggle these just to make sure that they
are not in the final report.
Then if I scroll down, there are assumptions given here on the cost per gig.
When it comes on to local disks, when it comes on to blob storage, this is all about the cost here.
There is an assumption of the cost that the company incurs by hosting their workloads in their on premises
data center.
So all of this differs, you know, company by company.
Here you will see the hardware cost that it is assuming if you have one processor, one core per proc
and what is the amount of Ram?
So in this page you will need to change the assumptions accordingly.
But if I leave everything as it is.
So we have in terms of software costs, electricity costs, virtualisation costs, so on and so forth.
I leave everything as it is.
I'll leave the assumptions as they are.
I'll click on next and then finally it's giving us now a report that over five years, if you start
using Azure for those workloads, this is the estimated cost savings.
It's also giving you a graph wherein you can see what will be your on premise cost versus the cost of
hosting the workloads on Azure.
You have the total on premises cost, the total Azure cost.
So you have the entire breakdown on this last page.
You have the ability then to download the report, save it or share it.
So you can use the Total Cost of Ownership calculator to understand okay, what would be the cost savings
by migrating your workloads from your on premises data center onto Azure?

--- Azure Cost Management ---

Now, in the prior chapter, I talked about the pricing calculator.
I talked about the total cost of ownership.
And these are tools that you use outside of Azure.
So before you actually jump onto using the Azure platform, you might use the pricing calculator to
calculate the indicator or get the indicator prices for using services.
If you want to build a business case for transferring workloads from your on premises data centers onto
Azure, you can use the Total Cost of Ownership calculator.
But once you are on the Azure platform, once you have start started building resources.
Now it's time to actually monitor the costs.
For this, we can go on to the cost management section.
So there's a cost management.
We also have cost management and billing.
But let me go on to cost management first.
So in the overview let me go ahead and just go on to cost analysis where we can get a breakdown when
it comes onto the costs.
Let me go on to browse all views.
So here we can get the costs based on let's say the resource groups based on the subscriptions.
Let me go on to getting the accumulated costs.
Us.
So now, when it comes on to this particular month, we can see the actual cost.
We can also see a forecast as well.
So it's telling us that based on our current usage, it's forecasting that by the end of the month we
would have consumed around 132 USD.
If you scroll down, you will get a breakdown of the cost based on the services.
So we have a breakdown based on storage based on virtual machines based on the Azure App service.
We can also see a breakdown of the cost based on the resource groups and also based on the location.
You know, once you're on the Azure platform, it's very important.
The next step is to monitor your costs.
Under cost management we have a lot of options in place.
You can see that when it comes on to the reports we get different views here.
We can you know if we get you know, as we start using the Azure platform, we will be able to get the
cost for previous months.
You can get cost for a custom date range.
And I said you're getting the forecast for the month itself.
So in this chapter I briefly want to go through the cost management aspect that's available on the Azure
platform.

--- Creating budgets in Azure ---

Now in the prior chapter, I'd gone through the cost analysis part.
When it comes to cost management.
In this chapter, I want to go through the budgets part when it comes onto cost management.
So let's say you have a set budget per month.
You want to make sure that you don't exceed that budget.
What you can do is you can actually add a budget within Azure itself, within cost management.
You click on add wherein we can go ahead and actually create a budget.
I can scroll down and say, okay, this is the monthly budget.
So this is on a monthly basis.
We have the creation date and we have the end date.
For this particular budget we can give an amount in USD.
So this is the budget amount per month.
Again if you scroll down you will see okay what is your current cost, what's your forecast etc. I will
click on next.
We can then set alert conditions okay.
If the actual okay if the actual cost, you know, if you already consume, let's say 21 USD 70% of
the budget, then go ahead and send an email so we can say send an email onto the, you know, onto
my Gmail ID and then whenever the actual cost exceeds 70% or it's going beyond 70% of our budget amount,
we'll get an email accordingly.
And then we can go ahead and create the budget accordingly.
So this is quite a good feature.
I said if you want to allocate a budget per month when it comes on to using Azure services, you can
go ahead and create the budget accordingly.

--- Support options in Azure ---

Now, in this chapter I want to go to the concept of support plans.
There are support plans in place when it comes onto the Azure platform.
Now by default when we create the Azure Free account, we get the basic support plan which is free of
cost.
So this is included for all Azure customers.
And for each of these support plans we have the developer, the standard, the Professional Direct and
the Unified Enterprise Support Plans.
If we scroll down, you will see all of the features that are available when it comes onto each and
every support plan for large organizations.
When they start hosting critical applications on Azure using various services, they would want to have
a proper support plan in place.
Now, for example, if I scroll down, if we look at the free support plan, you know, you do have
the ability to create support requests.
But if you need, let's say 24 by seven, access to technical support by email, phone and chat, then
we have to opt for, you know, a higher support plan.
So for example, if we look at the standard support plan that has that feature for the standard support
plan, you spend 100 USD per month, but you are getting access to the 24 by seven technical support.
If you need some sort of, you know, if you have SLAs when it comes onto issues.
I said, let's say that, you know, a company is hosting a critical application on Azure, and any
downtime for a service causes, you know, revenue loss for the company.
They will create a case with Azure, with Azure support.
But let's say that they have an SLA wherein they want to create a case or an incident that is of the
severity of a critical business impact, and they get the first response within an hour.
Then they can opt for the professional direct plan.
With the additional plans, you also get guidance from a pool of Pro Direct delivery managers that are
also service reviews that can get conducted.
So depending upon the requirement of the organization, they would go ahead and decide on which support
plan to use.
And this is very important because large companies normally need support when it comes onto Microsoft
when it comes on to using Azure based services.

--- Azure Service Level Agreements ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the service level agreements that Microsoft has
when it comes onto their online services.
Now, when it comes to using Azure, obviously for a large company, they want to ensure that Azure
maintains the uptime for their services.
For this, Microsoft has different service level agreements when it comes onto the online services.
If you go onto this particular URL, this particular link, you can download the most recent version
when it comes onto the SLA agreement.
I'll click on the download button accordingly.
Let me save the document and open the document accordingly.
If I open up the document on my local machine here we have the SLA when it comes onto the various services.
So for example, if I go onto the service of Azure Virtual Machines.
So I'll go on to Virtual Machines Control and click to follow the link.
Here we have the SLA agreement when it comes on to using Virtual machines has a service first, they
have the service level agreement.
When it comes on to how do you calculate the uptime for services for virtual machines in an availability
zone?
They first give the definitions of what is the maximum available minutes, what is the downtime and
what is the uptime percentage.
So they guarantee an uptime percentage of generally more than 99%.
When it comes onto their services, in case if they don't meet the service level agreements, then you
get the service credit added onto your account that you can use later on.
So similarly, they have the service level agreement for virtual machines in an availability set, and
even for single instance virtual machines.
Now, for companies that host critical services on Azure, this is very, very important in which they
need to know what is the SLA that is guaranteed by Microsoft when it comes onto their online services.
Another quick note when it comes on to the exam is please go through this page when it comes onto the
target metrics.
This also goes into different aspects such as service level objectives when it comes on to services,
the service level agreement, so on and so forth.
One quick thing is, you know, if I go ahead and just scroll down.
So one quick thing is a composite slow the service level objective.
So let's say that you're using two services.
You're using an Azure Virtual Machine service and you're using an Azure SQL database service.
Both of those services have different service level agreement service level objectives.
If you want to get the combined service level objective for both services, you will need to multiply
the individual SLOs for each and every service as it can go through this documentation page when it
comes onto the target metrics.
When it comes on to your services in Azure.
So just want to have a quick chapter when it comes on to these service level agreements.

--- Azure services update ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the updates that Azure makes onto their services.
So they have so many products on offer.
Obviously they will keep on enriching these products with new and new features.
They might also change existing features and also bring about new products.
If you want to look at the different types of updates for Azure based services, you can actually go
on to this particular page.
They have services which are also in preview.
This means that they are trying out probably a different service or a feature for an existing service
when it's in public preview.
That means they are making this available as a feature for users.
For Azure customers, Azure customers can go ahead and try to use this particular feature that's in
public preview.
You can click on the update itself and get more details about the update.
But please note that when it comes on to services that are in preview, make sure that you don't consider
using these features or services in your production environment.
So when you're talking about a preview for a service, what Microsoft is doing is they are giving this
service.
So let's say it's in public preview.
They're giving this service to try out to Azure customers.
Azure customers can then give their relevant feedback.
Then Microsoft can decide okay, what features is it relevant?
Is this feature going to be used by Azure based customers.
So Microsoft might go ahead and publish this particular preview has, you know, a feature in general
availability.
That means now you can use it in your production based environment.
Or they could make changes to the feature based on the feedback.
Or maybe they might not release the feature at all, because they might be thinking that customers don't
actually require this.
Hence, when you are looking at features or services in public preview, always make sure that you know,
consider you know, think twice before you actually consider using this in your production based environment.
We can also go through this particular page when it comes on to the general terms for using these services,
which are in preview on this page.
You'll get all the terms when it comes onto the different services or feature that are in the preview
state, right.
I want to give this quick chapter on updates to Azure Based services.

--- Cloud Adoption Framework ---

Now, in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Microsoft Cloud Adoption framework when it
comes onto Azure.
So this is a full lifecycle framework that enables cloud architects, IT professionals and business
decision makers to achieve their cloud adoption goals.
So let's say that a company wants to start migrating their workloads from the on premises data center
on Azure.
They want to start adopting the cloud.
Or maybe they want to deploy new applications onto the Azure platform.
If they want to understand, okay, what are the best practices, what are the tools, the best tools
to use and kind of make sure that they adopt the right strategy in deploying applications onto Azure.
Because the company might be new onto using the Azure platform, they want to make sure that they follow
the best practices.
So what Microsoft has done is they have looked at the history of prior deployments for customers.
They've probably taken what are the best use case scenarios, what are the best practices.
And they've built this cloud adoption framework.
If you scroll down, what they've done is they have built a particular lifecycle.
So I've opened this image in a new tab.
There are different stages in terms of this cloud adoption framework.
First is defining the strategy.
So when a company wants to actually move onto the cloud they should understand okay why are they moving
to the cloud.
What do they want to have.
Has the final business outcome.
What is the business justification to actually move to the cloud?
Do they want to reduce their footprint in their on premises data centers?
Do they want to reduce costs for infrastructure?
That's why they want to move to the cloud.
Do they want to make use of the latest services that the platform has to offer?
So maybe the company wants to make use of AI based services.
Hence, they feel that Azure is the best platform for using or utilizing these AI based services.
Once you define the strategy, the next thing is to create your plan.
Okay.
Do you have the right skills in place?
What is it that you want to have in terms of building applications on Azure?
Do you have a cloud adoption plan in place?
Once the planning phase is ready, then you can start building something known as landing zones.
You keep your environments in place.
You know, kind of a basic template environment in place in which you can start moving applications
onto the Azure platform.
As part of your account, then you can start adopting the cloud.
You can start having security in place, then manage and govern what you deploy onto the Azure platform.
So you can make use of this documentation page to understand the best practices when it comes to adopting
Azure as a cloud platform.

--- Service Trust Portal ---

Now in this chapter, I briefly want to go through the Service Trust portal.
Here you can learn how the Microsoft Cloud services protect your data.
How do they manage cloud data security and compliance for your organization?
So let's say that a company is making use of Azure based services.
They have applications hosted on the cloud.
Now an external audit company is performing an audit based on the applications.
So as part of the audit they might want to see okay are services on Azure following various compliance
standards.
Let's say that the audit company wants to understand when it comes on to PCI.
The payment card industry data security standards.
Is Microsoft following these standards for their services.
You can actually go onto the service trust portal here.
The Service trust portal is an open platform.
You don't need to have an Azure subscription or an Azure account to access these various certifications,
regulations or standards.
So for any category, for example, if I go onto the Payment Card industry data security standards,
you will see all of the available documents here.
You have the ability to go and download the document accordingly.
So if you need to understand how Microsoft protects your data, how does Microsoft comply based on the
various organization standards?
How do they make sure that their services comply to these standards?
You can go on to the Service Trust portal.

--- Resource tags ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to go through a feature that's available on Azure and that's known as resource
tags.
Now let's say that they're a company, you know, makes use of different resource groups for their resources.
So here I'm giving an example of a resource group that could be used for a dev environment.
So a company has different environments in place.
They could be having a dev environment in which they are using the Azure Virtual Machine service.
They're using the storage account service and the SQL database.
So these resources are made part of a particular resource group.
Then they have a staging environment.
Now for this they create another resource group.
And maybe as part of the staging environment they're using another set of Azure VMs.
They are using another set of storage accounts.
They are using another set of SQL databases.
So these resources are made part of another resource group.
And then finally they have a production based environment in which they are making use of other resources
like let's say, Azure Synapse, cosmos DB, another set of VMs, and another set of SQL databases.
So they are able to distinguish the resources that are being used via the use of the resource group.
But maybe the company also wants to get another view of the resources, let's say departmental wise,
maybe the logistics department within the company.
They have their application hosted on an Azure VM in the dev environment and maybe also in staging.
The HR department is probably using Azure Synapse in the production based environment.
So you have yes, you have these resources as part of these different resource groups based on the different
environments.
But at the same time you also have different departments within the company obviously, that are using
these different resources.
This.
So I said maybe the logistics department has their application hosted on a VM in dev hosted on another
VM, let's say in staging, or they're using a storage account in the staging resource group.
So you have departments that are using resources that are spread across the different resource groups.
You want to have a view of the resources being used by these different departments.
What you can do is you can make use of resource tags.
So tags are metadata or key value pairs that you can assign for your resources.
You can also assign them for your resource groups and subscriptions.
With this you get a view of resources based on the resource tags.
And also you can, you know, uh, look at a view of the costing aspect based on the resource tags itself.
So in Azure I have a set of resources in place.
If I go on to let's say a virtual machine resource.
So this resource is based on a particular resource group if you want to add a resource tag, you can
go on to the tags section and within the tags section you can add a name value pair.
So let's say that you know I've already added one name value pair of department is logistics.
That means probably the logistics department has an application hosted on this VM.
They are probably using this virtual machine.
You can also add other key value pairs.
Let's say that I'm adding the environment of this belongs onto the developer environment.
So yes you can do this via resource groups.
But if you're not doing it via resource groups, you can add multiple tags onto your resources.
So you can add a simple key value pair and click on apply.
Now once you do this I said what's the benefit of adding these resource tags?
You know what is the benefit of splitting your resources logically across different resource groups?
If I go on to all resources.
First of all, we can filter based on resource groups.
If you only want to see resources pertinent onto a particular resource group, we can do that.
We can filter this view.
We can filter view based on subscriptions.
We can filter view based on locations.
I can add another filter.
And this filter can be based on the tags.
So I can say that I only want to get the resources.
Where the department tag is is equal to logistics.
I can click on apply and I get that view accordingly.
So now we are able to view the resources based on the resource tag.
Another important aspect is if I go on to cost management within Azure and within cost management.
Let's go on to cost analysis.
Within cost analysis.
Let me go on to the accumulated cost.
So here I do get the cost the actual cost and the forecast.
Currently this is based on the current month of June.
Here I can go ahead and add a filter.
So I'll just change the magnification of the screen of the page.
We can now add filters based on various aspects such as the location.
But at the same time, we can also now perform a filtration of the cost based on the resource tags.
I can choose my department resource tag and choose my logistics value, which is just loading so I can
choose logistics apply this.
So here now we should get a filter on the cost of resources used by the logistics department.
So with the help of resource tags, we not only get the advantage of having a view based on the tags
itself, but at the same time from a costing perspective, we can also filter based on the tag itself.
So in this chapter I want to go through the concept of resource tags.

--- Ability to create an additional subscription ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through the concept that you can create different subscriptions
within your Azure account.
Now, currently what we've been doing is we have been creating, you know, or have we been only working
with one Azure subscription as part of our Azure account.
But you can create multiple subscriptions as part of the Azure account.
I talked about using resource tags in an earlier chapter.
I'd also mentioned that if you want to segregate your resources, you can group them into different
resource groups.
So in order to logically have a view and also from a costing perspective, if you want to differentiate
resources, we can make use of resource groups and we can make use of resource tags.
But maybe a company wants to have, you know, a larger segregation of resources.
So what they can do is they can create multiple subscriptions.
So you I'm giving you an example where you can have one subscription for, let's say the logistics department
and another one for the human Resources department, and each department can start having multiple environments
via the use of resource groups and then host their resources.
So this is something that you can do.
You can go ahead and create multiple subscriptions.
Now here I am in one of my other Azure accounts.
If I just go on to my subscriptions here also I have only one subscription in place that is my Azure
subscription one.
But we do have the ability to click on add and add a new subscription onto our Azure account.
Here we can choose the different details.
I only have the Microsoft Azure plan.
I can click on next.
We have our default directory and I said we can go ahead and easily review and create this additional
subscription as part of our Azure account.
I said if you want to have different departments using different subscriptions, very simple.
Go ahead and create a new subscription and the department can go ahead and deploy resources as part
of that subscription itself.
So in this chapter, I just want to go through the case where in you can create multiple subscriptions
as part of your Azure account.

--- Notes on managing resource groups ---

In this chapter, I just want to give, you know, some important points when it comes on to resource
groups.
Now, we already know that resource groups are used to logically group your resources.
So when you do deploy a resource on Azure, normally the resource needs to be part of an Azure subscription
and a resource group.
One resource can only be part of one resource group.
There you know we cannot make a resource part of multiple resource groups.
Also when we do create a resource group so you know we can create individual groups itself.
We don't have the ability to nest one resource group within another.
So normally students will ask me these questions as to can we make a resource part of multiple resource
groups.
No you can't.
One resource needs to be part of one resource group.
They also asked me, can we have one resource group that's nested within another?
Again, that is not possible at this point in time.
You can create individual resource groups and then make resources part of the resource groups itself.
Now we also have the ability to move resources within resource groups.
So if I go ahead and create quickly another resource group and let me put this in another location.
So let me try UK South for this particular resource group.
I'll go on to review and create and create the group accordingly.
Now I said we do have the ability to move resources across resource groups.
So let's take the use case scenario wherein you know a resource needs to move on to another group,
you know, for a particular reason.
So for example, if I go on to all resources, if I go on to my virtual machine resource.
Let's say that you need to move this on to another group.
You can see that we have that move operation that's available both for your resource group and also
for your subscription.
Let me click on move.
I can choose a target group.
Click on next.
It will perform kind of a validation.
Let me click on validate first.
Here it's doing a validation on whether we can move the resource onto a new resource group.
Now note that my services GRP resource group is in North Europe.
My app VM resource is in North Europe.
My destination resource group is in UK South.
Now do you think that we can move the machine from our services GRP resource group onto our new one?
Let's wait till the validation is complete to understand whether this move is possible.
So after a minute the validation is complete.
And here the validation status is a success.
That means we do have the ability to move the resource onto the target resource group.
C even though we can move the app VM resource onto a resource group in another location.
You have to understand that this is not going to change the location of the resource itself, so it
will not change the location of APM.
APM has a machine will be located in a data center in the North Europe location.
That is not going to change.
So if I go on to all resources, right.
My app VM is part of my services group.
Resource group.
It's in North Europe.
This move will not move the resource onto the UK South location.
The only purpose of having a location, one of the primary purposes of having a location for the resource
group is to kind of have a default location for resources that are deployed onto the resource group
itself.
Sometimes when we use other tools to deploy resources like let's say Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell,
that time, if we don't mention an explicit location to deploy the resource in, but we explicitly say
that we need to deploy this resource within a resource group, then that deployment will actually deploy
the resource in the location of the resource group.
So in the end I'm saying that one of the.
So in the sense I said the primary purpose of the location of the resource group is to provide a default
location for the deployment of resources within the resource group itself.
So in this chapter, I just want to kind of go through some important aspects when it comes onto resource
groups.

--- Quick note on other Azure environments ---

In this chapter, I just want to give a quick note on different Azure environments that are in place.
So we are working with kind of a global environment that's available for all Azure customers, but they
have separate environments that serve different purposes.
So for example there is an Azure government environment.
So your US government agencies and their partners that are interested in using cloud services, wherein
they want to deploy resources that meet government security and compliance requirements, they can deploy
their resources onto the Microsoft Azure government environment.
You can go through this documentation page to get more information on this.
Then we also have a separate environment in China, but this is managed by another entity in China itself.
Again, if you want to have a quick note on this, I'll leave both of these links.
Has resources onto this chapter.
But I said I want to give this quick note on these other environments that are available from an Azure
perspective.

--- Management Groups ---

Now in the chapter, I briefly want to go through management groups.
We talked about the concept earlier wherein we can deploy multiple subscriptions as part of an Azure
account.
Now a company can deploy many subscriptions.
So here's an example.
Let's say that the company has one subscription for the research department.
And they have their resource groups along with their resources.
You have kind of a main subscription that's used by multiple departments.
They also they have their own resource groups and their resources.
You have another one for human resources.
You have another one for logistics.
You might want to manage or club subscriptions together so that you can manage them by the use of,
let's say, role based access control or Azure policies.
For this we can make use of management groups.
Management groups can be used to manage a set of subscriptions.
It's a pretty simple concept.
By default in your Azure account, you get something known as a root management group.
All of your subscriptions by default come under the root management group.
But what you can do is you can create multiple management groups.
So for example here I could create one termed as business.
And under business I can say that I want my logistics and human resources subscription.
Then I could have another one for it information technology.
And under this I could club my research and my main Azure subscription.
Then once you do this, you can apply both role based access control, which you had seen earlier on,
and even Azure policies at the management group level.
So when you do this, those same roles, those same policies will automatically apply onto subscriptions
under the management group.
So this is ideal when a company manages a lot of subscriptions and they want, let's say these same
roles, these same policies to apply onto these subscriptions.
You can club them under management groups.
Right.
In this chapter briefly want to go through the purpose of using management groups within your Azure
account.

--- Azure Policy ---

And welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go to the Azure Policy Service.
The Azure Policy Service helps you to enforce organizational standards and assess compliance at scale.
There are different inbuilt policies in Azure, but you also have the ability to create your own policies
as well.
If you want to make sure that you know a company, a company might make use of Azure policies to make
sure that the different teams within the company adhere to certain standards.
When it comes on to, let's say, deployment of resources and maintainability of resources in Azure.
As an example, let me go on to my Azure account.
Now, currently I do have a set of resources in place.
I have a virtual machine.
This virtual machine is based on the size of standard underscore b-1s.
In order to look at policies.
I can go on to the policy service.
First of all, here you'll get an overview on the compliance of policies that have been assigned onto
your subscription.
Now by default, there is an ASC default policy.
This is from a security perspective.
But let's not focus on this.
Let's go ahead and see how we can apply an inbuilt policy onto our subscription.
If I go on to the authoring section I can go on to the definitions.
And here we should be able to see the different definitions of policies that are available.
If you want to club multiple policies together, you can create something known as an initiative.
At the same time, if you want to create your own custom policy, you can do that as well.
You can create a policy definition.
Now, I said here you have a whole list of policies in place here.
You can filter the policies based on the various categories.
Let's say if I unselect all and just enable the one for compute, you know, based on virtual machines.
So I'll click on compute, scroll down and click on apply.
We'll see all of the policies that are in place the inbuilt policies when it comes onto virtual machines.
Now here let me choose a policy of allowed virtual machine size SKUs.
I'll click on this.
So we can have a policy in place that can say that a company or teams can only deploy virtual machines
onto a subscription based on certain SKUs.
Maybe you don't want teams to deploy machines that have higher VM sizes, that have higher CPUs and
Ram, because that would add up to the cost.
So you want to have kind of a limit on these queues that can be used by different teams within an organization.
For this, we can basically use this inbuilt policy of allowed virtual machine size, cuz I can click
on assign the policy.
We can assign the policy at the scope of the subscription.
We can also drill it down onto a particular resource group.
So we can go ahead and limit the scope of assigning this policy.
Let me leave it at the subscription.
We can also exclude the resource groups and even resources from this policy, something that you can
also do.
So we are trying to use the policy definition of allowed virtual machine size.
Cuz I'll click on next.
And here we can decide okay what are the SKUs that you want to allow as part of this policy.
Let me search for actually D2S.
S.
Okay, I'll say I want to allow only standard underscore d to s underscore v3.
So this is the only allowed virtual machine SKU size I will allow as part of my subscription.
I'll go on to next.
There is no remediation.
We can have remediation steps.
This depends upon the type of policy that you're applying.
I'll go on to review and create and basically assign this policy.
Now it does take time for this policy to take effect.
But what we've done here is we have taken one of the inbuilt policies, which is based on allowing only
certain virtual machine size SKUs within the subscription.
So I chose one of standard underscore D2S.
Note that currently, as part of my resources, I have a virtual machine.
right?
This virtual machine is based on the size of standard underscore b1's.
So this is different from the size I mentioned as part of my policy.
Now it does take time for the policy to take effect.
What I'll do is I'll come back after around 15 minutes, and we'll see the impact of assigning this
policy onto our subscription.
Now, I've come back after around 10 to 15 minutes in the overview of Azure policy.
I've gone ahead and refresh this entire page.
Now, if I scroll down when it comes on to the policy that I have assigned the allowed virtual machine
size, cuz it's saying it's non-compliant, if I click on the policy itself, it should give me a list
of resources that are not compliant with this particular policy.
So yes, APM is not compliant, but did it have any impact on APM.
Well, no, it's not going to perform any operation on the existing resource.
No, because obviously it will have an impact to the entire service that you're hosting.
Right.
So all the policy is doing is that for the existing resources, it is giving you kind of that compliance,
you know, whether your existing resources are compliant with what policies are assigned.
But in another tab, if I go on to the all resources section and let me choose to create, actually
let me go on to virtual machines.
Let me try to create a new virtual machine.
So I'll play this part of any resource group.
If I quickly give a virtual machine name right.
No infrastructure redundancy required, I can leave it as Ubuntu Server.
Now, in terms of the size, you know here you're going to see that the only size that I can choose
is standard underscore D to S underscore v3.
I can't choose the one that's standard underscore b1 s.
And that's because of the policy.
So because there is a policy applied I am not able to choose all of these virtual machine sizes.
Okay.
If I go here everything has been blocked by the policy.
We don't have the ability to choose these different sizes.
So in this chapter I want to showcase that if you want your organization to apply with certain standards
right.
Certain compliance needs, you can make use of Azure policy.
Okay.
Now that we are done, I'll perform a clean up.
I'll go back onto the Azure Policy Service.
I'm going to make sure that I go on to the context menu and delete the assignment for this particular
policy.
Again, this will take you know, it'll take some time to take effect.
But in the end I want to unassign this policy from my subscription.

--- Azure resource locks ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go through a feature known as locking your resources within Azure.
So within Azure you can place a lock on your Azure subscription on your resource group or from resources
to protect them from accidental deletions or modifications.
There are two types of locks that you can create.
One is a cannot delete lock, so your authorized users can read and modify a resource, but they can't
delete the resource.
Another one is a read only lock, so your authorized users can read a resource, but they can't delete
or update it.
So as an example, in Azure, if I go onto all resources, I've deployed a VM as part of a resource
group.
Now if I go on to the VM itself.
So add a resource level.
We have the ability to create locks.
If I go on to settings here We have locks in place.
And I said, I do have the ability to create a lock.
Let me click on add.
So there are two types of locks.
You have a read only and a delete.
Let me create a read only lock.
This is for the virtual machine resource.
Okay.
Now once I've done this, let me go on to the overview.
This particular VM has a particular size standard B-1s.
Let me try to resize the machine.
So I'll go on to availability and scale.
Let me go on to the size and try to resize the machine.
I'll choose another size.
And let's click on the resize operation.
Let's see what happens.
So we're getting an error.
We're getting an error saying that we cannot perform the write operation.
We cannot change the status or the size of the VM because there is a lock.
There is a read only lock.
That means no changes.
No modifications are allowed onto the resource itself.
So if you want to protect your resources from accidental modification or deletion, we can go ahead
and make use of resource locks in order to make sure that you can perform operations on resources again
on this particular resource.
So you can go back onto the locks and we can delete the lock.
So note that or remember that once you have a lock in place, if you want to release the lock code and
delete the lock for a resource, you can have multiple locks.
So you can have one read only lock and a delete lock.
That's possible.
We can also create locks at not only the resource level, but at the resource group level and at the
subscription level as well.
So if I go on to the resource group and under the resource group.
If I go on to settings, if I go on to locks here we have the ability to create a lock at the resource
group level.
So if I go ahead and just create a read only lock and click on okay.
Now this has been done at the resource group level.
If I go on to my VM.
If I go on to locks you will see the lock in place.
It has been inherited from the resource group.
So if you go on to all resources right.
If you go on to the public IP address here again we have under settings.
If you go on to locks you will see a lock in place.
And again this lock has been inherited from the resource group.
If we need to release the lock we'll have to go on to the resource group again and go on to the locks
and delete the lock accordingly.
Right.
So in this chapter I want to go through the process of resource locks.

--- Lab - Azure CLI ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now, in all of these chapters, in this particular course, when it comes on to interacting with Azure
based services, we've been using the Azure Portal.
And the Azure Portal is a web interface that you can use from any device.
So if you're on Mac OS, if you are on an Android device, you can go ahead and open up a browser and
start using Azure.
Now, do you know that there are other tools as well that you can use for interacting with Azure based
services?
One of them is the Azure Command Line interface.
The Azure Command Line interface is a cross-platform command line tool that you can install locally.
And this tool can be used to interact with Azure based services.
So IT administrators can actually use these tools to kind of interact from a command line perspective
with Azure based services.
If you want to start using this tool on your local machine so you have an installer, you will need
to go ahead and install the tool.
So you can install this tool on windows You can install it on Linux, you can install it on Mac OS.
But what we are going to do is we are going to run the Azure CLI command in Azure Cloud Shell.
So in case if you don't have the capability of installing something on your local machine, you can
run these Azure command line commands within something known as Azure Cloud Shell.
Azure Cloud Shell is something that you can run within the browser itself from the Azure portal.
So here within Azure okay, I have some resources in place if I go on to storage accounts.
Currently I don't have any storage accounts in place.
I do have a resource group.
So the resource or if I go to resource groups I have a resource group of services group.
Let me go back onto storage accounts.
Let me click on this cloud shell icon.
And now what it's doing is it's opening an interactive session within the browser itself.
It's saying here, do you want to use bash or PowerShell?
Let me go ahead and choose PowerShell as an option.
Now, in order to get started, we need to select our subscription.
If we need to persist files between sessions.
So when we close this particular session.
Okay.
You know if you want to store files in Azure Cloud Shell and if you want to reuse them in the next session,
you will need to mount a storage account.
But for us it's fine.
We don't need to persist any files.
So the only thing I'll do is I'll say no storage account is required and I will point it onto my Azure
subscription.
I'll click on apply and now it should start a cloud shell session within the browser itself.
And then within Cloud Shell we should be able to execute Azure command line commands that can interact
with Azure based services.
So once you have the terminal in place we can I said execute Azure command line commands.
The Microsoft documentation has all the commands that are available for Azure CLI.
I'm going to execute a command, just as an example that can be used to create a storage account.
The way that I do this is I say Azure Storage account create.
I said these are all commands that are available.
You can see the Microsoft documentation to get more information about these commands.
Then we can specify what is the name that we want to create for Azure Storage Account.
Remember it needs to be unique in nature.
And then I can mention my resource group.
So it needs to be part of which resource group.
So I have a resource group of services GRP.
So what I'm doing here is I am interacting with Azure via a command line interface.
Remember we can do this from our local machine as well.
But there we need to install the Azure command line utility within Cloud Shell.
It's already present.
It's already there.
You don't need to basically install the tool.
If I go ahead and hit on enter, it will send now a request onto Azure to go ahead and create the Azure
Storage account.
Now please note that if you are running this from your local machine, so let's say from a windows based
device, I told you the first step is you need to install the Azure command line interface.
The next step is you will need to log into your account.
Now currently here we are already logged in as the admin.
But when you start a new session on your machine, let's say through the command line interface, you
will need to type in first the AZ login command to log into your account, and then you can start executing
commands to interact with Azure based services.
So now that this is done here, if I just click on refresh.
So now here we can see our storage account in place.
So in this chapter I want to go through how we can make use of Azure Command Line interface to interact
with Azure based services.

--- Lab - Azure CLI - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Using Azure PowerShell modules ---

Now in the prior chapter, I had shown an example on another way that we can create resources in Azure,
and that is why the use of the Azure command line interface.
Similarly, I want to showcase another tool that we can use for creating and working with Azure based
services, and that's PowerShell.
PowerShell itself is a general, you know, kind of scripting tool that you can use to work with not
only Azure, but with other Microsoft platforms as well.
It can actually run on your local machine.
So PowerShell is something that you can install on windows, on Linux, on Mac OS, and it's kind of
a command line shell that you can use.
You can you can run commands that can, I said, not only interact with Azure based services, it can
also interact with your underlying operating system and also with other kind of platforms as well,
based on Microsoft.
Unlike most shells that only accept and return text, PowerShell actually has the ability to accept
and return dotnet objects.
If you want to use PowerShell.
Okay, first of all, you have to install PowerShell on your local machine on windows.
On windows based devices, you will have a version of PowerShell already in place.
But if you need to use PowerShell on, let's say, Linux or Mac OS, you can install them accordingly.
Then once you install PowerShell, you.
This is a general scripting engine.
If you want to use PowerShell with Azure Based services, you then need to install the Azure modules
in PowerShell.
These modules will give the additional capability of interacting with Azure based services.
Now, obviously if we can't install PowerShell on our local machine, if we can't install the modules,
we can always execute PowerShell base commands in Azure Cloud Shell.
So similar to the earlier chapter wherein I shown you how we can execute Azure CLI commands within Cloud
Shell itself, we can also execute PowerShell commands as well.
Now as an example I'm going to execute a PowerShell command.
Currently, I don't have any storage accounts in place.
I've gone ahead and remove the storage account.
We can again go on to the Microsoft documentation and understand all of the commands that are available
in PowerShell when it comes onto Azure.
I said here, I'm giving an example on how we can create an Azure storage account.
The command is new Azure Storage account.
And I said in Cloud Shell we don't need to install PowerShell.
We don't need to install the Azure modules.
They'll be present by default.
We can then give a resource group name.
So I want my storage account to be part of the services GRP resource group.
We need to give a unique name for our storage account.
Then I need to mention the location.
So for example I can mention the location as North Europe.
And what is this new name?
So in this new name, I want to create a very simple standard based or account based on locally redundant
storage.
And since we have different storage accounts in place, what is the kind of storage account that I want
to create?
So a simple general purpose V2 storage account.
We can enter this command on Azure Cloud Shell.
So by mistake I just didn't give the resource group name correctly.
Let me go ahead and correct that.
We are now sending a PowerShell request onto the Azure Resource Manager.
Azure Resource Manager will now create the storage account based on this request.
Let's wait till this is complete in less than a minute.
We can see that the provisioning has succeeded in the storage account screen.
If I click on refresh, I can see the storage account in place.
So in this chapter, I want to showcase another way in which we can interact with Azure based services.

--- Using Azure PowerShell modules - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - ARM templates ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter I want to go through the usage of arm based templates.
So ARM stands for Azure Resource Manager.
Now when working with Azure Based Services when we deploy resources.
So let's say we are deploying a storage account.
We are deploying an Azure VM.
What we do is we go onto the Azure portal.
We then kind of create a resource based on the service.
We are presented with a wizard.
In the wizard we go ahead and configure the different aspects and then we deploy our resources accordingly.
Now let's say that there is a requirement to kind of build a test environment that consists of a set
of machines, that consists of an Azure SQL database that consists of storage accounts.
You need to provision this test environment on a regular basis.
So let's say you have an application that requires these resources.
You want to test the newer version of the application and hence you need to provision a test environment
on a temporary basis.
Deploy the application.
Test the application.
Once it is done, go ahead and delete the infrastructure.
Write for that environment, for the test environment and then the next time around when you need to
again test a newer version of the application itself, you have to provision the test environment again.
Again you have to provision the VMs.
You have to provision the storage account, provision the Azure SQL database.
Instead of going to the Azure portal over and over again, going through the wizards of deploying the
resources, what you can do is you can make use of ARM based templates.
ARM is infrastructure as code.
You if you have the requirement of repeatedly deploying resources, deploying infrastructure, you can
define your infrastructure as code and then submit that code onto Azure and Azure can provision that
infrastructure for you.
The other advantage is when you define your infrastructure as code, you can store that code in a version
control tool to maintain different versions of the ARM template.
You define the ARM template in JSON, that is JavaScript object notation.
When it comes on to using ARM templates for deploying a resource based on a service, the Microsoft
documentation has a lot of examples.
It has the, you know, the structure of how do you build a template.
So as an example, I'm on the documentation page wherein for the storage account service, when it comes
on to ARM templates, it's showcasing what is the format of the JSON based document that you can create
to deploy the storage account.
And it will give information about each and every sort of value that you can add on to the template.
Now, because the storage account service has so many features, so many configuration aspects, all
of them can be defined as infrastructure, as code.
Now apart from that we have ARM templates.
We have Terraform.
So Terraform is a language available from another vendor.
Terraform can be used to provision resources.
You know it's again infrastructure as code with Terraform is from another vendor another provider.
We also have Bicep.
Now Bicep is from Azure.
Again this is a domain specific language that can be used to again deploy Azure resources.
Now I want to quickly showcase how we can use an ARM template to deploy an Azure storage account.
Now when building the template again I'm going to use the Azure portal.
But please note that if you have your template in place, if you have the code file in place, you can
make use of other tools like let's say PowerShell to deploy that ARM template.
Since this is just a beginner level course, I want to showcase how we can deploy a template using the
Azure portal.
Now in all resources I will click on create.
And by the way, if I just go on to storage accounts, open the link in a new tab.
So currently I don't have any storage accounts in place.
Now here I'll say that instead of creating a storage account, let's use a template deployment.
So I want to create a template that can be used to deploy a storage account.
So let me create a resource based on the template deployment.
Here I'll choose to build my own template in the editor.
So the template itself has a structure, so you have the schema on the version of the template that's
being used.
You can specify parameters.
And within the resources block you can define the resources that you want to deploy.
So let's say that you want to deploy an Azure VM, a storage account a SQL database.
You can define the deployment of all resources within this resource block.
Now I'm going to add code here itself.
This is based on the Microsoft documentation.
This is a very simple snippet of code that you can use to deploy a storage account.
When deploying a storage account, what is required is the name of the storage account itself, the
location and the SKU name, and the kind of storage account.
As I.
Based on the Microsoft documentation, you can use all of the other name value pairs the properties.
You can configure the storage account, but what's required is the name of the storage account.
What is the location, the skew and the kind?
Now, once you have this template in place, I can click on save.
I can say let's deploy it onto my existing resource group.
Go on to review and create and create this custom deployment.
So seeing the validation phase let's look at the error details.
Okay.
It's saying that the template sorry the storage account name has already been taken.
So I'll go on to previous.
Let me edit the template.
Try to give a different name.
Click on save.
Choose my resource group.
Go on to view and create.
And then we should be able to go ahead with the deployment of the template.
So here the difference is instead of using the entire wizard to deploy my storage account, I have defined
the deployment of the storage account as code.
This is JSON based code.
It is known as JavaScript Object Notation.
It's quite simple.
It is just, you know, a set of name value pairs that you can define within the file in these name
value pairs I'm mentioning.
Okay.
I want to create a storage account with this particular name with this particular SKU, so on and so
forth.
I said you can define the deployment of multiple resources within the resource block.
You also have the ability to deploy this ARM template via other means.
So we can use PowerShell as a tool to deploy the template.
Okay I can see that the template deployment is complete.
So in another tab if I click on refresh under Storage accounts I can see my storage account in place.
So I said here what we've done is we've used infrastructure as code to deploy our resource onto the
Azure platform.
Now that I'm done, I'll go ahead and delete my storage account.

--- Lab - ARM templates - Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Note on the Azure Arc service ---

Instructor: Now in this chapter, I want
to give a quick note when it comes onto Azure Arc.
This is good for companies
that have their own on-premises infrastructure,
so they're having applications, servers, et cetera,
and they're making use of their Azure account.
Now, trying to manage both
of these environments can be tricky and complicated.
This especially when you have your application portfolio
across these two environments.
In order to have a unified management
and governance for your infrastructure, you can make use
of Azure Arc.
This is like kind of bringing Azure Resource Manager
to manage your resources for your on-premises environment.
So if you have virtual machines in your on-premises,
which you can, you can use virtualization technologies
to bring up virtual machines in your
on-premises environment.
If you have Kubernetes clusters
or if you have databases, you can manage them
as if they are running on the Azure platform with the help
of the Azure Arc Service.
So this provides a centralized
and a unified way
to manage your resources across different environments.
In this chapter, wanna have this quick note when it comes
onto the Azure Arc Service.

--- Azure Advisor ---

In this chapter, I want to give a brief overview when it comes onto the Azure Advisor service.
This is your cloud assistant that helps you to follow the best practices and optimize your Azure deployments.
So when you have a resources deployed onto your Azure account, what the Azure Advisor tool does is
it looks at these different resources.
It collects the telemetry data, the usage, and then it gives you recommendations on how you can improve,
let's say the reliability of your entire environment.
How do you ensure an improved continuity of your business critical applications.
So here it will actually give you recommendations.
Let's say you have a virtual machine.
So it might tell you that in order to improve the reliability of your virtual machine environment,
maybe deploy multiple VMs as part of different availability zones.
Similarly, it can give you recommendations on security in terms of threats and vulnerabilities.
How do you improve the environment against different threats and vulnerabilities?
How can you improve on performance?
How you can optimize on costs and how you can achieve operational excellence?
So currently, the Azure Advisor tool can give you recommendations based on these different categories
within Azure.
We should be able to go on to the Azure Advisor service.
I say what this service does is it goes through the different resources that you have, and then it
can give you recommendations currently based on whatever we have.
We don't have many resources in place.
From a costing perspective, it's saying that there are no cost recommendations.
There are some recommendations, you know, from a security perspective.
But here again is giving a complete 100% score.
If I scroll down it's giving me probably some recommendations on performance and reliability.
Let me go ahead and click on reliability to see what it's giving in terms of recommendations.
So in terms of reliability it's saying you know the general ones for a storage account.
It's saying please enable soft delete to protect our blob data.
In terms of services it's saying you can go ahead and create an Azure Service Health alert.
So we have these different sort of reliability recommendations it's giving.
We can then go ahead and download all of these you know as PDFs all of these recommendations.
And we can have people working on these recommendations.
We also have the ability to create alerts so we can create alerts based on new recommendations.
So new recommendations are available in these different categories.
We can go ahead and create alerts accordingly.
So you can use the Azure Advisor tool to get recommendations I said on these different categories in
terms of reliability, security, performance, cost and operational excellence.

--- Azure Service Health ---

In this chapter, I briefly want to go through Azure Service Health.
So Azure Service Health has a service notifies you about any incidents that occur to the Azure services
itself and any planned maintenance.
So in the end, you have to understand that the services that you use on Azure, in the end those services
are hosted on physical infrastructure within Azure data centers.
Obviously, sometimes incidents can occur to the underlying service.
This service could impact a few customers, again depending upon the feature that's having an issue
or the service that's having an issue, it could impact customers at a global scale.
If you want to look at these incidents, if you want to look at the planned maintenance that's in place,
you can go ahead and use these service health feature.
The Azure Service Health feature is available at no additional cost onto Azure subscribers.
So within Azure We should be able to go on to the service health service itself.
Now currently is loading the data on any sort of active service issues.
If you go on to the history, we can look at the health history.
So it's saying no events found.
This is from the last week.
Let me go ahead and look at the last three months and see if okay.
No events are in place.
We can look at the resource health.
We also have the ability to create a service health alert.
So if there is any impact onto a service you can get an alert accordingly.
We can also look at the planned maintenance.
Currently again there are no planned maintenance events found.
But you know, I said the entire purpose of this service health is to understand if there is any incidence
to your underlying services and also if there is any planned maintenance in place.
Just want to give this a quick note.

--- Azure Monitor service ---

Hi and welcome back.
Now in this chapter, I want to go through the or give an introduction onto the Azure Monitoring Service.
This you know, with the help of this service we can collect metrics and logs from our underlying resources.
You know if you look at a resource in Azure.
So here in Azure I have a virtual machine in place.
So if I go onto all resources and if I go onto the virtual machine resource itself in the overview,
if you scroll down, if you go onto the monitoring section, scroll down even further.
We can see stats here such as the VM availability which is in preview.
We have the average CPU percentage for the machine itself, and we have other metrics.
Now these metrics are coming in from Azure Monitoring Service.
So important metrics for the virtual machine in terms of the amount of network traffic that's flowing
in and coming out of the VM, the disk operations, so on and so forth.
Everything, all these metrics are coming in from Azure Monitoring Service.
The Azure Monitor service has the ability to collect these metrics from the underlying resources within
Azure.
Now, Azure Monitor can also monitor your on premises resources as well.
It has that capability.
In addition to collecting metrics, we can also create alerts.
So let's say that you want your IT admin team to get a notification.
If the CPU percentage for a machine hosting an application goes beyond a particular threshold, then
the admin team can take the required action on the VM itself.
You can go ahead and make use of alerts.
You can also collect logs for various resources.
This is done via the use of another resource or a service known as the Log Analytics Workspace.
You can get insights onto your resources such as your VMs, and also get reports and even visualize
your data.
So if we're looking at a monitoring service on Azure, we can use the Azure Monitor service.
Now in the subsequent chapters, from the perspective of the exam, we look at some of the important
aspects when it comes onto the service.

--- Azure Monitor Alerts ---

Now in the chapter, I want to go through using alerts in the Azure Monitor service.
So I have a set of resources in place that includes an Azure VM.
On the left hand side I have the monitor service.
Now within the motor service we have various aspects.
We have something known as the activity log.
Within the activity log you will get a view of all of the control plane activities that are occurring
as part of your Azure account.
So for example, if someone goes ahead and deletes a virtual machine, or someone goes ahead and deallocates
a virtual machine, all of that comes up in the activity log.
You can actually also create an alert for the activity log.
So let's say that you want a set of IT admins to get an alert.
Whenever someone goes ahead and deallocates a virtual machine, you can go ahead and create an alert
Note accordingly.
If you go on to metrics, you can scope out the metrics for various resources.
So here if I just choose my Azure VM, click on apply.
We can look at the various metrics.
So for example if you want to look at the available memory in bytes you'll get the graph accordingly.
So I said let me go through an example on creating alerts in Azure Monitor service.
So here I'm getting a view on the alerts.
Currently I don't have any alerts in place.
I'll go ahead and create something known as a new alert rule.
The first thing is to select our resource.
So we are creating this alert based on which resource.
Let me go ahead and choose the resource of my app VM.
I can click on apply.
Once we have our scope in place the next thing is the Condition.
So based on what condition do you want to trigger this alert?
Now, these are the popular signals when it comes on to the CPU percentage.
The available memory bytes, so on and so forth.
So for example, if I choose the percentage CPU now it's telling me please go ahead and add all of the
configuration for the alert.
What is the logic that you want to have in place for the alert itself?
So here we can say that if the average CPU percentage for the VM goes beyond 80%, please check this
metric every 1 minute or 5 minute period.
So if it goes beyond 80%, then go ahead and trigger this alert.
When it comes on to our particular VM, we are not going to get any alert based on the CPU percentage
because there's nothing running on the VM itself.
Here you are getting a graph where is showing, the CPU percentage is, you know, it's less than 1%.
What we can do is we can click on see all signals and look at the various signals that are available.
So we are getting signals based on the metrics based on the activity log, so on and so forth.
You have a take an example of the network let's say in total.
So the number of bytes that are coming in.
Let me click on apply.
So I can say that if the number of bytes coming in is greater than 100.
Now please note that this particular condition should trigger the alert because we do have bytes coming
in basically in memory in megabytes.
But here I'm just giving a very simple unit of bytes itself, just showcasing an example on how we can
trigger an alert.
Once you've defined the condition, the next thing is the action.
So what do you want to do once the alert is triggered?
For this, we create something known as an action group.
Let me go ahead and create this action group.
So this is kind of like another resource wherein we are getting now another wizard in which we specify
the different aspects for the action group.
I can choose my resource group.
This is at a global level.
I can just give quickly a group name the same display name.
Now as part of this action group, we can go on to notifications and we can specify an email.
So whenever the alert is triggered I can go ahead and send an email.
So for example, if I send an email onto my Gmail account we can go ahead and do that.
I can scroll down and click on okay.
Just need to give a name email alert.
We can also trigger various actions.
So for example let's say that the CPU percentage is an alert where the CPU percentage goes beyond 80%.
You can then probably run, let's say, an Azure function, or run an automation runbook to restart
the VM.
So you can perform various actions as well based on the alert.
I won't define any actions.
I'll go on to review and create and create this action group.
So please note here we are not creating the alert as of yet.
We are creating something known as an action group.
That action group is mentioning okay, what should we do if this alert gets triggered.
So here we are using action groups.
We can then give details about the alert itself.
Click on tags.
Go on to review and create and go ahead and click on create.
This will go ahead and create the alert rule accordingly.
And it's going to take some time.
What I'll do is let me just wait for let's say around 10 to 15 minutes and let's see if an alert indeed
gets triggered for the VM.
I'm sure that the alert should get triggered, because I set a very low threshold when it comes onto
the metric for network in.
So let's wait and come back.
So I've come back after some time here in the alerts page.
If I go ahead and click on refresh here I can see that the network alert was indeed fired.
And if I go on to my Gmail account, I can see I have received an email accordingly.
So we have this ability of having or creating alerts that can trigger us whenever a particular metric
goes beyond a particular threshold.
Now that we're done, I'm going to perform a cleanup.
First of all, I'll go on to the alert rules.
I'm going to delete this rule.
Then going back onto alerts, let me go on to action groups and let me delete this action group.
Right.
This marks the end of this chapter.

--- Lab - Log Analytics ---

Right now.
In this chapter, I want to showcase an example on using a log analytics workspace.
So the log analytics workspace is kind of like a central solution that allows you to collect logs.
You can collect logs from your resources in Azure.
So this could be your Azure virtual machines and also other services on Azure.
You also have the ability to collect logs from your applications or your workloads running in your on
premises data center.
Now currently in Azure I have an Azure VM in place.
This VM is actually based on Ubuntu Linux.
So let's say that you want to collect.
Okay maybe the metrics or the logs in a central location we can make use of the log Analytics workspace.
Now what I'll do is in all resources let me click on create to create a resource based on the Log Analytics
service.
So here let me search for the Log Analytics workspace.
And in the marketplace.
Let's create a resource based on the service.
We again get a wizard in which we can configure the different aspects about our workspace.
I'll select my existing resource group.
I'll need to give a unique workspace name in North Europe.
I can go on to review and create and create this log analytics workspace.
Now this should just take less than a minute.
Let's wait till we have the Log Analytics workspace in place.
Now once the workspace is deployed we can go on to the workspace resource itself.
And here I can go on to the logs.
This will take me on to a place wherein we can see the various logs being collected.
The logs get collected in tables.
And then you can query the data using a language known as the Kql language, the Kusto query language.
Currently, we should not be having any tables in place because we are not directing any data towards
this log analytics workspace.
In order to collect data from, let's say, an Azure VM, if I go on to the overview for the Log Analytics
workspace itself in, Get Started, you can see that you can connect a data source.
So we can connect storage accounts and we can connect our Azure VMs.
Let me click on this Azure Virtual Machines.
This will now take me on to a screen that is telling me we need to create something known as a data
collection rule.
This data collection rule can be used to collect data from the underlying Azure VMs and send it on to
the Log Analytics workspace.
Let me give a simple rule name.
I'll scroll down.
Now my virtual machine is in the North Europe location.
It is based on Linux.
I'll click on next for the resources.
Let me add the resources, which is the VM itself.
So we want to collect the data from the underlying VM.
So we can choose that and click on apply.
Click on next for Collect and deliver.
It's saying this data collection rule doesn't have any data sources or destinations.
So let me go ahead and add a data source.
Here we can choose okay what do we want to collect when it comes on to the virtual machine?
Do we want to collect the underlying performance counters which we can.
Do you want to collect the Linux syslog again which you can.
Do you want to collect some custom text logs or some custom JSON logs?
As an example let me collect the underlying performance counters.
So by default it is collecting these performance counters.
Click on next.
For the destination I can add the destination of my Log Analytics workspace.
Click on Add Data source.
We can go on to review and create and create this data collection rule.
So we're creating a rule that is supposed to collect data from our underlying Azure VM based on Linux,
and send it on to the Log Analytics workspace.
Now, the enablement of this rule and the collection of data to see the initial collection of data,
it does take time.
I'm going to wait for at least around 15 to 20 minutes and then come back.
So I said first, the first action is doing is it is creating that data collection rule.
But it does take time to get the data in place.
So I'm going to wait for some time and then come back.
Now I've come back after some time.
If I go on to my Log analytics workspace again and in the Log Analytics workspace, let me go onto the
logs.
Let me click on select a table.
Now under Azure Actually, I can see under log management we have this performance based table in place.
I can click on this performance based table and we're getting results in place.
Now all of these records are coming up in the Log Analytics workspace.
These are all based on the performance metrics that are being collected from the underlying virtual
machine.
So we can go ahead and collect these metrics.
We also have the ability to collect logs.
Now maybe I said we can collect logs onto the log analytics workspace.
But to make this lab very, very simple we collected performance metrics which we can do as well.
Okay.
Now that we're done, I'm going to go on to the Log Analytics workspace and delete the resource accordingly.

--- Revision ---

Now in this chapter, let's have again a revision based on some of the concepts that we have learned
in this particular section.
So first is the ability of a company to create multiple subscriptions.
Now for us we've only been working with one subscription but that's fine.
But a company does have the ability to create multiple subscriptions as part of their Azure account.
So they could create individual subscriptions for each department within their organization so they
could track costs accordingly.
You can also make use of something known as resource tags to add metadata or additional key value pairs
to your resources.
You can also do it for your resource groups.
We can use management groups if you want to manage multiple subscriptions.
Now we can build and manage Azure resources via the use of the Azure Portal.
During this entire course, we've been actually creating and working with Azure Resources via the portal
itself.
But we can also build and manage resources via other tools.
So we can use the Azure command line interface.
We can make use of Azure PowerShell modules.
We can also deploy resources via the use of Azure Resource Manager templates and bicep based templates.
We can manage Azure based services from any client based machine.
So whether it be Linux, whether it be windows, whether you have an Android device, whether you have
Mac OS, in the end, you just need a browser within the browser.
You can use the Azure portal.
When it comes to Azure CLI and PowerShell, there is support for Linux.
That is support for windows.
There's support for Mac OS.
With Azure Resource Manager templates, you can define your infrastructure as code.
Here the template is in JSON format.
You can define the deployment of multiple resources within a template.
And you can maintain also different versions of your template using let's say a version control tool.
You can deploy the template either using the Azure portal, or you could even use tools such as Azure
PowerShell to deploy your templates.
Bicep templates can be used to deploy resources by using a domain specific language.
We looked at the Azure Advisor tool.
This is a cloud assistant that helps you to follow the best practices when it comes onto deployment
of Azure Resources.
Here you can get recommendations that are divided into different categories.
So we have categories in terms of reliability, security, performance, cost and operational excellence.
We can also generate alerts using Azure Advisor tools.
So whenever there are new recommendations via this tool you can get alerts accordingly.
And Azure Advisor has support for a variety of Azure based services so it can monitor those Azure based
services and give you recommendations accordingly.
Then we have the Azure Monitoring Tool.
This is a monitoring solution that allows you to collect metrics logs from both Azure and your on premises
environment as well.
You can define alert rules in Azure Monitoring tool.
These rules can capture signals and based on conditions it can send alerts, let's say to email addresses
to send sms's etc..
Application insights, which is a part of the Azure Monitoring Solution, offers a capability of application
performance monitoring.
The Log Analytics workspace, which is also part of the Azure Monitoring Solution, can be used to collect
log data from your resources.
Now some quick Q and A's.
So which of the following can be used to collect any type of log data from Azure and Non-azure based
resources?
Is it application insights?
Is it log analytics workspace or is it Azure policies.
Well we have to go for the Log Analytics workspace because this is primarily used to collect log data.
Application insights is more of an application performance monitoring tool.
Yes it can collect the telemetry data from your application.
But is it primarily if you're looking at collecting logs, we will need to go for a log analytics workspace.
Which of the following page provides a global view of the health of Azure services and regions with
their service availability?
Is it Application insights?
Is it Azure Advisor?
Or is it the Azure Status page?
Well here are the correct answer is Azure Status page.
Which of the following can be used to enforce organizational standards and compliance for Azure based
resources?
Is it Azure policies?
Is it the Azure Advisor tool?
Or is it Azure status?
Well here it's Azure policies.
And finally a team has a set of Azure VMs.
You have to ensure that whenever the action of deallocation of VMs is performed, a team of administrators
are notified accordingly.
So which of the following can be used for this requirement?
Would you use Azure Policies, Azure Advisor or Azure monitoring solution?
Well, we can define alerts based on the Azure Monitoring tool right.
So in this chapter we're going to have a quick revision.

--- Hosting your infrastructure on the cloud ---

Instructor: Now considering
our current migration requirement,
how can we move workloads?
What are the possible options when moving onto Azure?
Well, first and foremost,
remember that what are the initial steps?
As a company, you first need to ensure
that you have an Azure account in place,
you have an Azure subscription.
Along with this, you'll also have Microsoft Entra ID.
I mean, this is your base, you first have the account
in place, you first have the subscription.
Obviously, you also need to ensure
that in Microsoft Entra ID you start building identities,
you know, users and groups based on those employees
in your company
who will start managing the infrastructure
that is gonna be deployed as part of the Azure account.
And the company can have multiple subscriptions.
Maybe this could be for different departments,
so on and so forth.
So from an initial perspective, the company needs
to decide on all of these aspects.
How many subscriptions do they want,
what are the users and groups that need to be defined,
and what are the permissions that need to be given?
Now, next,
considering just the base infrastructure,
like the virtual machines or the applications,
if they have web applications
in their on-premises infrastructure
and they have databases, do they want to use infrastructure
as a service and move all of them
onto Azure virtual machines that run
within a virtual network?
Maybe they wanna have complete control
over the underlying environment,
that's why they want to move onto virtual machine
as a service and host the application and host the database.
Maybe they need to install the web application software.
Maybe they're using a legacy database system
that's not supported
on the existing Azure platform database services.
Hence, they wanna move everything onto a virtual network
and virtual machines.
If this is not a constraint,
they can maybe consider platform as a service.
Maybe they can use Azure web apps
for hosting the web applications.
If they have databases based on Microsoft SQL Server,
they could consider using Azure SQL Database.
If they're using MySQL,
they could use the Azure Database for MySQL service.
Maybe they want to use, you know, a new database system,
says Azure Cosmos DB, wherein they want flexibility
of storing their data,
and they also have a requirement
when it comes onto low latency of data.
When it comes onto storage of files, do they wanna store it
as objects or maybe as file shares?
Well, for either this, they can make use
of Azure storage accounts.
They can make use of blob storage
when it comes onto storing files as objects.
So Azure has a variety of options
and services when it comes onto hosting your infrastructure.
Again, please note that, you know,
we are just studying everything from an AZ-900 perspective.
Obviously, there is a lot more that goes
into architecting the entire application landscape.
Here, I've already given a couple of options
when it comes onto, let's say, hosting your applications.
Remember, if you have a container-based application,
you could use a container-based service on Azure,
that is Azure Container Instances or maybe Azure Kubernetes.
If you want to host your function code,
you can make use of Azure Functions,
which is the serverless service on the Azure platform.
There are so many services
that you can actually choose from,
so as an architect working in a company,
you can decide on the right set of services that can be used
for hosting your applications.
In this chapter, wanna give that brief overview
on what you can consider as the services
that can be used on the Azure platform
when it comes onto hosting your infrastructure.

--- Understanding your requirements ---

Hi and welcome on to the section.
Now in this section, I want to kind of go through an entire use case scenario.
And the purpose of this is to kind of have a revision again, on some of the important concepts that
we have learned in this particular course in the earlier sections.
You know, in this course, at different points in time, I try to have a revision of the topics.
So at the end of certain important sections, I have kind of a revision in which we look at the important
points.
We have some important Q and A's.
Then at the end of the section I also have quizzes in place.
I also have a practice test at the end of this course right in the last section.
But in this section I want to go through a use case scenario that can help us from a beginner perspective,
understand okay, when a company wants to start using Azure, if they have a set of requirements, how
can they go about fulfilling those requirements on the Azure platform?
So first and foremost, in this particular chapter, let us go through the requirements of a sample
company wherein they want to go ahead and move workloads from their on premises environment on Azure.
So let's consider that a company has a set of on premises servers.
They have applications.
They have databases.
And they want to migrate some of these workloads onto Azure.
When it comes onto identity.
So let's look at each and every requirement when it comes onto identities.
So currently the company is using Microsoft Active Directory that is installed on a server in their
on premises data center.
So at the moment we're not touching Azure.
Everything is hosted in their on premises data center.
Microsoft Active Directory is a tool that you can install on a server that can be used to manage identities.
So if you want to define users in your organization and give access to these users to resources within
your on premises data center, you can make use of Microsoft Active Directory.
So currently they have kind of a setup in place wherein they are using Microsoft Active Directory to
manage their on premises identities, the user identities.
Then they have two applications application A hosted on application server, application B that is again
hosted on an application server.
That application connects on to a SQL database running on a database server.
Now when it comes on to migrating application A E on Azure, there is a requirement wherein the server
administrators need to have complete admin privileges over the underlying compute infrastructure.
The application needs to withstand any sort of data center level failures when it comes on to application.
B the requirement is that you should make use of managed services wherever possible.
The database currently for application B is hosted using an instance of Microsoft SQL server.
Now, at the same time, there are certain applications that the company cannot migrate.
This could be due to various reasons.
You know these applications could be legacy based applications.
These applications could be in such a way that, you know they don't have the source code available
anymore.
It could be a vendor product in which they don't have the installer.
There could be multiple reasons as to why they just cannot migrate certain applications onto the Azure
platform.
Hence they still need to go back onto the requirements.
So they still need, you know, that sort of connectivity.
They need to build a hybrid setup for the applications and users on premises so they can connect to
resources on Azure.
Then when it comes on to storage, they have a file store which is currently based on a shared file
share space.
This also needs to go onto Azure.
They have storage layers that is used to store different types of files.
These files need to be migrated on to an efficient storage service on Azure.
We should be able to save on storage costs for those files that are rarely accessed.
And then in the end, we need to monitor our entire infrastructure using managed services on Azure.
So first and foremost in this chapter I want to give kind of that high level requirement.
So I said let's assume that a company has these requirements and they want to migrate their workloads
from their on premises data center onto Azure.

--- Design and Initial implementation ---

So based on the current requirements, what should the company do first?
Well, first and foremost, the company can set up an Azure subscription.
That's the first thing at the organization level.
You might also think of setting up an enterprise agreement with Microsoft, and also decide on a support
plan.
If these applications that need to be hosted on Azure, they are critical in nature, they generate
revenue.
Then you have to consider several aspects such as okay, what are the SLAs provided by the underlying
Azure services?
At the same time, the company might need to have a support plan in place.
So let's say they need a support plan wherein they need 24 by seven support from Azure Technical Engineers.
They will have service reviews, advisory sessions, but at the same time they need to control costs
so they can opt for using the Professional Direct Support plan that has all of these requirements.
Next is the costing aspect.
Now, even though the company does want to move on to the cloud, Out, they would still need to mostly
have, you know, the required business use case.
Justification has to moving the workloads from their on premises data center onto the cloud.
They need the budget approved because first of all, you know the company needs to decide on.
What are the services that are going to be used on Azure for these workloads?
And based on the services we need to decide or we need to kind of understand or come to.
An estimate in terms of the costs.
So to get an initial understanding on the costs.
You can, you know, use the pricing calculator.
And if you want to develop a business use case you can think about using the total Cost of ownership
calculator.
See there are a lot of things that the companies to consider when going on to Azure.
When moving current workloads.
So I said the first thing is having the required people on the ground who have an understanding, first
of all, on the applications, on on premises.
What is your architecture?
What are the operational requirements then on Azure, what services to use, what services to map onto
the workloads.
And when it comes to, let's say, hosting virtual machines, okay.
What is the size in the database?
Also what is the size?
What is a storage.
How are we going to move the applications onto the cloud?
You can use the cloud adoption framework in terms of the best practices.
All of this needs to be considered by the company.
But the best thing when it comes onto a cloud platform like Azure, you have a low entry barrier wherein
we don't have that much of a capital expense.
The platform provides flexibility, scalability on demand.
You can start building your resources and hosting your applications.
So first and foremost has a first requirement.
The company can set up an Azure subscription, decide on a support plan, have the business case in
place, understand the services that they're going to use.
Look at planning on how they can move the workloads from their on premises onto the Azure platform.

--- Deciding on compute infrastructure ---

Now that we've performed the initial set of steps, the architects within the company can start now
deciding on what services to use when it comes to moving the workloads onto Azure.
So let's take each use case separately.
Let's consider application A now for application A.
Currently it's let's assume that it's being stored or it's being hosted using application servers.
These application servers could be physical servers.
They could be virtual machines.
They could be they could be based on windows.
They could be based on a Linux distribution.
Now we need to move this application onto the right compute infrastructure on Azure.
Here there is a clear cut requirement wherein the server admins need complete admin privileges over
the underlying compute infrastructure, and the application needs to withstand data center level failures.
So for this we can consider using the Azure Virtual machine has a service.
Remember this is an example of an infrastructure as a service.
You will have complete admin privileges over the underlying compute machine.
So we have the admin username and password.
At any point in time we can log on to the machine.
We can install our applications.
Now to protect against.
So I just made a mistake here to protect against data center level failures.
We can deploy our machines onto different availability zones.
Right.
If any one of the availability zones were to go down, if any data center were to go down, you would
still have your application hosted on a VM in another availability zone.
But remember that it is your responsibility to ensure that the application comes up on each and every
machine.
So automatically students normally ask me if I have multiple VMs in different availability zones.
Will Azure ensure that the application also comes up on each and every machine in each and every availability
zone.
Well, no.
So that's your responsibility.
The availability zone is just an option at the infrastructure layer on how you can, you know, ensure
high availability for your application architecture.
In the end, it is your responsibility to make sure that the application is installed on each and every
virtual machine.
Also, remember that when you deploy resources onto Azure, most of them we've seen in the case have
to be deployed onto a specific region, and you decide on the region based on various parameters.
So for example, the proximity of users, you might want to install an application on a VM that's closest
to your user base.
Or maybe from a costing aspect, you might choose a region wherein the cost of the VM is the least.
Right.
So we are going to go step by step.
In this chapter, I want to go through how the company, from an overall perspective, can think about
migrating application A onto Azure.

--- Deciding on platform service usage ---

Now the next bit is to target the migration of application B onto Azure.
Now here are the main requirement is application B is.
Let's assume that it is hosted on an application server.
This application also interacts with a database server.
Remember as per our requirement, the database is based on an instance of Microsoft SQL server.
We want to migrate this workload on Azure.
But it's saying that wherever possible use managed services because maybe the company does not want
the burden of managing the underlying infrastructure.
So here it's quite simple on what we can consider using for migrating these workloads.
We could probably think of using the Azure Web App Service for hosting the web layer, and the database
layer can be hosted using Azure SQL database.
Now, when it comes down to using the Azure Web App Service, yes, it is a managed service, but here
we are assuming that the application or application B is developed in a framework that has compatibility
with the App Service.
So it could be a dotnet based application that has support for the Azure App Service.
Then we can host it, you know, using the App Service itself.
If this is a custom application, it's a vendor application wherein you have to install the application
itself.
Then it could be difficult to go ahead and use the app service.
If you can containerize the application into an image using Docker, then maybe again you can think
about hosting it using the app service.
So there are a lot of things that we have to consider before using a managed service, because with
a managed service, there are some capabilities that are offered by the service itself.
We have to ensure that we match those capabilities in the app service.
If you have a programming language that is supported by the App Service itself, we can consider, you
know, hosting it on that platform, right?
In this chapter, I really want to go through how we could consider moving application be onto Azure.

--- Deciding on data storage requirements ---

Right now in this chapter, let's tackle the next requirement of the storage layer.
So as per the requirement of the company the organization, they currently have two storage layers.
One is a file store that is a shared file share space.
This needs to go on to the Azure platform.
Then there are various storage layers that is used to store different types of files.
These files need to be migrated on to an efficient storage service on Azure.
And we should be able to save on the storage costs for the files that are rarely accessed.
So for this purpose we can think about provisioning Azure storage accounts.
So here we are thinking about storing files.
So the ideal service is storage accounts with storage accounts.
Again we have different services in place.
We can store the file store using Azure File shares.
Quite simple.
We can go ahead and create multiple shares.
Remember the Azure Storage Account service is likened to a platform as a service wherein the underlying
storage is managed for you.
You don't need to think about the underlying storage, but it automatically grows in the background.
You just start using the service, you just start uploading your files.
Then if we're looking at a storage layer that can store different types of files, and at the same time
you can save on storage costs for those files.
We can consider using Azure Blob storage.
I said this is an option here even though we're talking about files.
If you want efficient storage, those files are stored as binary base objects in blob storage.
This makes it much more efficient to store different types of files within Azure.
And if you want to save on costs, on storage costs, we can make use of access tiers.
Remember we looked at those different access tiers.
We have the hot.
We have the cool.
We have the cold and we have the archive access tier.
So we can save on storage costs for those objects that are not accessed, that frequently by migrating
them or moving them onto different access tiers.
So from a storage perspective, quite simple.
We can go ahead and make use of storage accounts.
We can create a general purpose V2 storage account.
And within the storage account we can use the Azure File Share Service and the blob service.

--- Connecting on-premises to Azure ---

Now in the chapter, let's tackle the requirement wherein there are certain applications that cannot
move onto Azure at this point in time.
We have to allow communication between these services in on premises and Azure itself.
So let's say that you do have a set of virtual machines that are hosting application A within a particular
region in your Azure subscription, maybe application C and application D, which cannot migrate onto
Azure.
They need access.
You know they need to communicate with application A.
Or maybe you have users in your on premises, you know, kind of domain who need to connect onto the
application or the resources within the virtual network.
Well, in order to establish this sort of hybrid setup, there are a couple of options in place.
One is to create an express route connection here.
This is a dedicate and a private connection between Azure and on premises.
Here the traffic does not traverse the internet.
You could also create an Azure VPN gateway.
way.
Now, with the Azure VPN gateway, you can again connect your on premises network onto Azure.
Your.
The traffic does flow via the internet, but remember that it is an encrypted connection with Expressroute.
Your.
The connection goes via you know, a third party provider.
So it could be your internet services provider, but they have a dedicated link on to Microsoft.
And using Expressroute, you can privately connect onto your resources in Azure, like your virtual
networks.
At the same time, you could also connect privately onto other Microsoft services like Microsoft 365
with Azure VPN gateway.
Here, the traffic between your on premises and Azure between, let's say, a virtual network.
Everything goes via the internet.
But you have, you know, the traffic that flows via the internet through the VPN gateway is encrypted
in this chapter.
Briefly, you want to go through how we can set up this hybrid connection between Azure and our on premises
network.

--- Monitoring our infrastructure ---

Now, in this chapter, I want to go about how we could, you know, kind of monitor our entire infrastructure.
Let's say that we do have Azure VMs.
As part of our Azure subscription.
We have storage accounts, we have App services, we have SQL databases.
Now one thing I've shown here beforehand is, you know, you can have your resources.
So your Azure VMs, your storage accounts, your Azure App services, your SQL databases, they could
be part of the same resource group, but they can be in different regions.
This is possible.
So you could have your storage account in let's say East US.
You can have your VMs in west US at different regions, but they can be part of the same resource group.
Remember, in the end the resource group is just a logical grouping of resources.
The region is the location, the physical hardware on which the service is located on.
Right.
These two different aspects.
Now when it comes down to monitoring your infrastructure, we looked at the Azure Monitoring Service
as part of the Azure Monitoring Service.
We can plot out the metrics for the various resources within Azure, whether it be virtual machines,
whether it be SQL databases.
Note that you can use Azure monitoring solution for not only monitoring Azure based resources, you
can also monitor your on premises as well.
You know you can install agents on your on premises application servers, and those agents can send
data onto the Azure Monitoring service.
So it can be used for both aspects.
So we can use metrics for looking at the metrics for the various resources.
We can have a log analytics workspace for the central logging solution.
We can direct logs onto the log analytics workspace.
We can use application insights when it comes onto application performance monitoring of live web applications.
From a security perspective, we can use Microsoft Defender for cloud.
This can be used to monitor the security posture of resources within Azure.
You know, we need to make sure that we use paid plans as part of the available, you know, to make
full use of the available security features.
We can also make use of the various compliance reports that are available within Microsoft Defender
for cloud.
So when it comes to monitoring your infrastructure, we have a lot of options in place.

--- Managing your infrastructure ---

And now, on a last note, I want to go through kind of that point wherein how can we manage our infrastructure?
Now, first of all, when it comes on to deploying your infrastructure, remember you have a couple
of options in place.
You can go onto the Azure portal and deploy the resources.
Remember, if you want to have test environments in place, you want to repeatedly deploy resources.
We can also make use of ARM templates.
We can make use of bicep based templates.
Remember that administrators can not only use the Azure portal, they can also use tools such as Azure
CLI.
They can use PowerShell.
They can use Azure modules on PowerShell.
And this works on a variety of operating systems.
If you have an Android device, you can open up the browser and from there go onto the Azure portal.
And then from there we can go and manage resources.
Remember it comes onto the Azure CLI tool.
When it comes onto PowerShell, it works on windows, it works on Android.
It works on Mac OS devices For your organization.
You can define different users in Microsoft Android.
Microsoft Enter ID is at Manage Identity provider because it is managed.
We don't need to create any virtual machines.
We don't need to create any infrastructure for hosting Microsoft Android itself.
We can directly go ahead and start creating our users, and we can give our users access via the use
of role based access control.
So there are different roles available in Azure.
We can make use of these roles and give permissions accordingly.
We can also add additional security measures when it comes onto the login process.
For our users.
We have that concept of multi-factor authentication.
And we can enable conditional access to resources to better, you know, to have a better security protocol.
When users, you know, especially admins, access the Azure account.
Right.
In this chapter, we want to go to the additional aspect of managing your infrastructure.

--- Revision - Important concepts ---

Instructor: Now, in this chapter,
let's have a quick revision.
This revision is based on some important concepts.
The first was looking at the migration
of our infrastructure from the on-premises,
you know, network onto Azure.
There we discussed that we have a sort of options in place.
Either we could host the workloads on virtual machines,
that is infrastructure as a service,
or we could use platform as a service.
So in the infrastructure has a service,
the underlying physical hardware is managed by Azure.
An example of this is Azure Virtual Machines.
Here you get full admin rights over the underlying machine.
So if you wanna install software on the machine,
you can make use of virtual machine as a service,
your IT admin can go ahead and log into the machine
and install the software accordingly.
In platform as a service,
the infrastructure, the physical infrastructure
and the platform, both are managed by Azure.
Examples are the Azure Storage Accounts, Azure Web Apps.
Here, in addition to the underlying physical infrastructure,
even the compute infrastructure, the virtual machines,
they are also managed by the service itself.
Here, you don't get full admin rights over the platform.
So in Azure Web Apps, you have no facility
to actually install anything on the machines
that is hosting your application.
And mostly these platform as a services
have the ability to scale automatically.
See, with Azure Storage Accounts, you don't need
to worry about the underlying storage,
you just start uploading your data.
When it comes onto Azure Web Apps,
we have scalability already in place.
You can scale your infrastructure.
That is a feature.
Yes, there is a cost when you start scaling
your infrastructure with Azure Web Apps,
but this is a feature that is already available.
And then we have software as a service,
wherein the entire infrastructure, the platform,
and the software are managed by Azure.
An example is Microsoft 365.
Now we have not covered Microsoft 365
in this particular course,
because it's not mentioned anywhere.
You have Microsoft 365 in other basically
certification courses.
But as part of AZ-900, you have to understand
the concept of software as a service.
And this is a good example.
Here again, you don't get full admin rights
over the platform,
but you don't need to manage aspects again
about the software infrastructure.
Everything is managed by the platform itself,
and you get automatically high availability and scalability.
Now, some key terms, we have Fault Tolerance.
You're making your system tolerant on default.
See what happens if there's a network failure,
if there is an application fault.
How do you mitigate against Data Center level failures?
Elasticity, how flexible is your infrastructure?
The great thing about the Azure platform is you can scale
your infrastructure on demand.
For your virtual machines,
you can perform vertical scaling,
wherein you can increase the size of the machine.
That means you have more number of CPUs
and more amount of memory.
You also have horizontal scaling,
wherein you can have more machines running
as part of your infrastructure.
Your scalability, right,
we can use Azure Virtual Machine Skillset
to scale our infrastructure on demand.
Low latency, here is where users need
an ideal response time.
You can use Azure Cosmos DB if you wanna have a fast
database on hand.
You know, users can get low latency to data.
Also, we had used another service known as,
or looked at another service known as CDN.
That is a Content Delivery Network from Azure
that can be used to stream data, you know,
content to users across the world.
And then Disaster Recovery.
What happens if the entire region goes down?
We have some options in place
when it comes onto Azure Storage Accounts.
We have Geo-redundant Storage in place.
We have the different Cloud types.
We have the Private Cloud.
Here the company would use their own data centers
to have a Cloud environment that is available
to their internal users.
We have the Public Cloud.
Here different companies can actually carve out
a portion of the Cloud for themselves, so Azure Platform.
You have different customers
who can go ahead and create accounts and use services.
Here you can leverage advantages of Pay-as-you-go.
You can scale your infrastructure on demand
and your self-service management.
Now even the Private Cloud companies
would have that facility
of self-service management, definitely.
You could scale your infrastructure,
but you know, to an extent, if you need
to extend the Private Cloud, you need to have more servers.
Again, you would need to go ahead
and buy infrastructure, you know, buy servers,
because you're having your own, you know,
your managing the physical infrastructure
in the Private Cloud.
We also have the Hybrid Cloud,
wherein companies can go ahead
and extend their infrastructure.
They can use the Public Cloud for certain applications
and if they have any sort of sensitive application,
they can store it in their Private Cloud environment.
So in this chapter, wanna go through a revision
of some important concepts.

--- Revision - Costing ---

Instructor: Now as part of our entire revision process,
in this chapter, I want to go through the costing aspect.
So the cost of an Azure service,
remember, depends on several factors.
It depends upon the region of the service.
It also depends on how much you use the service.
When it comes onto Azure virtual machines,
you pay for the running compute costs.
And also remember that you need
to consider all of the costs.
If you stop an Azure virtual machine,
you deallocate the machine, you'll still pay
for the cost that is the underlying disk.
When you make use of a service,
understand all of the aspects
that go into using the service.
For Azure web apps, as an example,
here you pay based on the app service plan that you use.
Right?
This is based on the running cost of compute,
depending upon the plan.
You pay a monthly cost for the service.
But once you have your application in place,
you know you don't, let's say pay for the number
of connections, onto the application itself.
No, you pay for the running cost
of the underlying infrastructure.
Then we have bandwidth cost.
There is no cost linked onto transferring data into Azure.
There is a cost for transferring data out of Azure.
There is a cost when it comes
on to data transfer between Azure regions
and Azure availability zones.
Costing for certain Azure services is free.
Always make use of the Microsoft documentation
to understand, right?
For Microsoft Entra ID, just as an example,
you don't pay for defining the use, and the groups.
Even in our newly created Azure account,
in Microsoft Entra ID, we had the free edition,
wherein we could go ahead and create users and groups.
There is no charge for Azure virtual networks.
There is no charge for virtual network interfaces.
There is no charge for creating Azure resource groups.
In your deployment, try to understand
those services that are free,
and understand the charge when it comes to other services.
And when you are considering the charges,
you separate as to whether they are capital expenditure,
costs that you pay upfront,
operational expenditure, here you pay ongoing cost.
So when you consider the pay as you go model,
this comes under the operational expenditure.
Azure gives you the flexibility
when it comes on choosing between CapEx and OpEx.
And remember, there are ways in which you can
save on cost, when it comes on to,
let's say, Azure virtual machines.
You can make use of virtual machine reservations
or use spot virtual machines.
So in this chapter, I wanna have a quick rundown,
when it comes on to the costing aspect.

--- Revision - Tools ---

Instructor: In this chapter,
wanna have a quick revision,
when it comes to the tools that you can use.
So we have the Azure portal, right?
We can use this to work with resources
on the Azure platform.
We log into the portal via the username and the password,
and we can start creating resources,
based on the different Azure services.
Along the line, we had also looked at
another tool known as the Azure Command line interface.
This is a specialized tool, that allows you
to work with only Azure based services.
Normally, IT administrators would consider
using this tool when it comes on to automations,
developing scripts, et cetera.
At the same time, if they're familiar with PowerShell,
PowerShell as an engine, I told you
can work with other services as well.
It can work with your local machine,
if you're based on Windows,
or if you're based on other platform as well.
So, along with this, you can install
the Azure PowerShell modules,
and interact with services in your Azure account.
With the Azure portal, you can use this
on any machine that has browser support.
This means that you can use the Azure portal
on devices such as Windows, MacOS, and Linux.
We can also make use of Azure Cloud Shell,
in case if you can't run the commands
on your local machine, using PowerShell
or the Azure CLI, in the browser itself,
you can open up Azure Cloud Shell.
It just needs a storage account in place
and you can start executing your CLI commands
or even your PowerShell commands.
Again, Azure CLI and the Azure PowerShell modules
are supported on Windows, Linux, and MacOS.
For MacOS and Linux, you just need
to install PowerShell first.
So in this chapter, we'll have a quick note
on the tools that can be used,
to interact with your Azure based services.

--- Revision - Security and Governance ---

Instructor: Now in the chapter,
we wanna go through a revision,
so based on our infrastructure
when it comes onto security and governance.
If you are hosting your workloads
on your Azure virtual machines,
you can make use of network security groups
to filter the inbound and the outbound traffic
from your virtual machines.
Network security groups can be applied
at either the network interface level
or at the subnet level.
It cannot be applied
at the entire Azure virtual network level.
You can have multiple inbound and outbound rules.
And these rules can be used
to base the traffic on IP addresses,
on Application Security Groups, Service Tags.
The Azure Firewall is a managed service
that can be used
to protect your entire Azure virtual network,
so all of the resources that are present in your network.
Here it has in-built threat intelligence.
Hence, if there are requests coming in
from malicious IP addresses,
it can go ahead and detect this sort of traffic
and protect your infrastructure, you know,
from the requests that are coming in
from these malicious IP addresses.
Then we look at Microsoft Entra ID.
We define users and groups.
And when we log in with a user credential, the first step
that happens is authentication.
This is used to verify a user's credential.
Then we have authorization.
So once the user is authenticated,
does the user have access to a resource?
Like for example, can the user view the list
of resources like Azure VMs, storage accounts, et cetera?
So this is authorization.
This is used to grant access to resources.
Now both authentication and authorization can be conducted
by Microsoft Entra ID.
And in order to use Microsoft Entra ID,
you don't need to deploy any infrastructure.
When using Microsoft Entra ID, we could also make use
of multifactor authentication.
This provides an additional level of security
in the entire authentication process.
Here what we could do is we could have,
let's say, a code sent onto our mobile device.
So after we enter username and a password,
you know, code will be sent onto a mobile device.
And only once we enter the right code,
we are granted access.
We are basically authenticated onto our Azure account.
We can have multi-factor authentication set
for both our admin and non-admin-based accounts.
Here again, you don't need
to deploy any sort of special infrastructure
to make multi-factor authentication work.
We have resource locks.
This can be used to protect the accidental deletion
and modification of resources.
Now if you define a lock, like a Delete lock,
in order now to delete the resource,
even if you are the owner, you are the administrator,
you still can't delete the resource.
You first have to remove the lock.
Then you can go and delete the resource.
We have Azure Policies.
This helps to define governance.
You can define a policy that allows virtual machines,
let's say, to be deployed only to a certain region.
This can be done with the help of Azure Policies.
We have Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
This helps to evaluate the security of your resources.
Here you can also get a secure score.
You can also get security recommendations.
You can implement the security recommendations,
but it's up to you.
And you also get security compliance reports as well.
We have Azure Monitor.
This can be used for viewing the metrics for your resources.
You can monitor both your Azure
and your on-premises resources.
You can also make use of Log Analytics
when it comes onto storing log data.
And remember, we also have Application Insight.
This is part of Azure Monitor.
This can be used to look
at the live performance of your web applications.
So this chapter will have a quick review
when it comes onto security and governance.

--- Revision - Core Services ---

Instructor: Hi, welcome back.
Now, starting the entire revision process.
You won't have a one-liner when comes on
to the different Azure services that we have seen so far.
We looked at a lot of compute services
via the Azure App Service.
This can be used for hosting your web applications.
We have Azure virtual machines.
This provides the basic compute infrastructure
of machines on the cloud.
The Azure Virtual Network helps to isolate workloads
that run on your Azure resources
such as your virtual machines.
We have the Azure SQL database.
This is the relational database service on the cloud.
We have one that corresponds onto Microsoft SQL server.
We have another one that corresponds onto MySQL as well.
We have Azure Storage accounts.
This provides storage solution on the cloud.
As part of storage account, we get many services.
One is the blob service.
This can be used for hosting objects.
Here you get a unique URL for each object.
We have the file service, this can be used
for hosting file shares.
You can then map drives onto the file shares.
We have the table service, this allows you to store data
in the form of key/value pairs.
We have the queue service, this used a messaging service.
Now with Azure storage accounts, we have the ability
to virtually store unlimited number
of objects in the storage account itself.
By default, Azure makes three copies of your data,
but it can make use of other
data redundancy options as well.
For blob storage, we also have the different access tiers.
We have the Hot, Cool, the Cold,
and the Archive access tier.
We have Azure Cosmos DB.
This is a fully managed NoSQL and relational data store.
Here, you get fast access to your data.
You can choose from a variety of APIs.
We have APIs that is a NoSQL API, Table,
Gremlin, Cassandra, and PostgreSQL as well.
We have the Azure Advisor tool, this can give you
several recommendations on your Azure environment.
This can range from security on to cost recommendations.
We have application insights.
This can be used to monitor your live web applications.
It can also give you various aspects of the performance
for the web applications itself.
We have Azure AI services, this can be used
to build artificial-based applications.
Within Azure Synapse, this can be used
to host a SQL data warehouse.
You can use this for your analytical
and data integration needs as well.
The Azure Logic app is a workflow service.
You can use this to build workflows
based on triggers and actions.
We have the Azure Content Delivery Network Service.
With this service, you can distribute
content to users across the world.
We have the entire Azure DevOps set of tools
that can be used to manage your entire
DevOps lifecycle processes.
We have Azure DevOps-Repos.
This can be used for hosting your code.
You can make use of Git when it comes
on to to managing code versions.
We have pipelines, this can be used to manage
your Continuous Integration and Deployment Processes.
We have boards, this can be used to manage
your tasks, backlogs, and user stories.
If you wanna connect networks together, we can do this.
One thing is if you wanna connect
Azure Virtual Networks together,
we can use virtual network peering.
If you want to connect your on-premises machines
on to your Azure Virtual Network,
we can use either point-to-site
or site-to-site VPN connections.
And if you wanna have a dedicated connection,
we can make use of Azure ExpressRoute.
Write us a quick summary on the core services.

--- Revision - General Concepts ---

Instructor: Now, in this chapter,
there's some revision on some general concepts.
We first have Azure regions.
These are comprised of data centers
that are deployed with latency-defined perimeter.
We have Azure availability zones.
These are physically separate locations
within an Azure region that are tolerant to local failures.
If you need to protect resources
against data center level failures,
then you can deploy your resources
across availability zones.
Now, please note that Azure availability zones
will not replicate your data automatically,
this you need to do on your own.
You can deploy machines based on both Windows or Linux
onto availability zones.
We have Azure resource groups.
This can be used to logically group your resources together.
A resource can be part of only one resource group.
You can't nest resource groups together.
The resource and the resource group
can be part of different regions.
When you assign tags onto a resource group,
they don't apply to resources in the resource group itself.
We have Azure subscriptions.
This is used from a billing perspective.
You can create multiple subscriptions.
A resource can only belong to one subscription.
If you have multiple subscriptions in place,
you cannot merge them together.
And you can also use one Microsoft account
to manage multiple Azure subscriptions.
We have Azure Resource Manager.
This is the main part of the Azure ecosystem.
This helps to deploy resources to Azure
in a consistent manner.
We have Resource Manager templates.
This can be used to automate the deployment of resources.
We have management groups.
This can be used to manage multiple subscriptions.
And we have resource tags.
This is used to add metadata onto your resources.
You can filter resources and costs based on resource groups.
So in this chapter, I want to have a quick revision
on the general concepts.

--- Its time to take the exam ---

Lecturer: So there's a lot
that we learned in this course,
and all of this has been done for your preparation
for the AZ-900 exam.
Now that you're ready,
you can look to schedule the exam.
Here I am on the official page for exam AZ-900.
If you scroll down, first of all,
you can review the study guide.
So this course is based on this study guide document.
Here you will see all of these skills
that are being measured.
You can then schedule your exam.
You have a couple of options in place.
Here is the price of the exam itself.
There is also a free practice assessment that you can take.
This is quite useful.
We just need to sign in with your Microsoft account.
So sign in with my current
Microsoft based account that I'm also using
for my Azure account as well.
So we have signed in.
I'll click on next.
It's asking me to create my profile.
Always give a display name, click on next,
select my country and region
and click on save.
Select my country and region
and then click on save.
Or click back to learn.
And now we get a practice assessment
when it comes onto the AZ-900 exam.
You can go and actually check your answer right here itself,
for example, which are the two attributes
that are characteristics of a private cloud deployment?
So remember we had covered private cloud deployment.
Here the company is responsible
for the underlying physical infrastructure
and they're making a cloud environment
available for their customers.
So can applications be provisioned
and deprovisioned quickly?
That's one option.
Hardware must be purchased.
Yes, possibly hardware needs to be purchased by the company
because it is required for the private cloud deployment.
Organizations only pay for what they use, but not exactly.
Organizations need to pay for the underlying hardware.
The company has complete control
over the physical resources and the security.
That should be true because they do have complete control.
Let's go ahead and check our answer and both are correct.
We can actually go through this practice assessment,
you know, get a better feedback if you're ready
to take on the AZ-900 exam.
With this done, I also have some practice tests
as part of this course
and then I issue the best of luck for your exam, AZ-900.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
