

=== Section 1 - Getting Started with Dockers ===


--- Overview of the Course ---

Hey everyone and thanks for subscribing to the Docker Certified Associate Video course.
I am ZIEL and I'm going to be your instructor throughout the course.
Now, in today's video, we'll be primarily be discussing about two important pointers.
First one is about the overview of the course and second, about the overview of the official Docker
certification.
So with this, let's get started.
Now, there is one important part to remember is that this is a certification specific course aimed
at individuals who intend to gain the Docker Certified Associate certification.
So Docker is one of the most popular technology nowadays in the market, and this is one of the reasons
why a lot of individuals have started to learn about Docker.
So not only this course will help you in understanding Docker in depth, but it will also prepare you
to give the certification which will in turn validate your knowledge in the industry.
So this is a perfect course and certification if you plan to start your journey in Docker.
Now before we go ahead and proceed further, let's quickly have a look into the official certification
guide so that we have a better understanding on what it is all about.
So I in the official Docker certification page now if you go a bit down, you have a dedicated section
associated with the study guide.
So let's quickly look into the study guide here.
So this is basically the Docker Certified Associate Study Guide.
Let's go a bit down.
In fact, let me zoom in so that it becomes better to go through.
Now before we go ahead and discuss more about the study guide, one very important part to remember
for the certification is the prerequisite.
So if you look into the section here, it states that candidates for the certification should have at
least six months to one year experience with Docker, including the exposure to the Docker enterprise
edition.
So when you just discuss about the certification, the certification requires six months to one year
of prior experience.
So this certification is not based on the individuals who are new to Docker, but our course is designed
in such a way that even if you are new to Docker, will fill that specific gap that the certification
requires.
Now if we go a bit down, you will see that these are the domains that are available.
You have orchestration, image creation, installation, networking, security, storage and volumes.
So having the high level overview about the domain in the exam blueprint, let's discuss about the associated
section that we have within the course.
So as we were discussing in this course, we begin from absolute scratch and then we move ahead with
the advanced topics.
So this basically means that even if you are new to Docker, this course is the perfect course to begin
with.
Now if you look into this specific sections that we have, the Section two to section seven, these
are the sections which are officially part of the blueprint.
Now, before we actually start with any of the exam domains, we have a Section one which aims to bridge
the gap of six months to one year.
So if you understand this section well, you will be able to begin with the official exam blueprint
in an easy to understand way.
Now, one more important part to remember, let's go a bit down.
So within the official exam blueprint, you have a domain one which starts with orchestration.
However, if you are new to Docker and you start with orchestration, this is something that will definitely
go out of the head.
So this is the reason why our course is modified accordingly.
So if you see within our course, the orchestration is at the section four, so only after you have
a strong understanding about Docker, you understand image creation management, you understand networking.
Then we begin with the orchestration domain.
So not only we cover all the domains that are part of the exams, but we have modified the structure
a little bit so that it fits to all the individuals, be it a beginner or also be it someone who already
knows Docker.
But our primary aim is towards the individual who are new to Docker and that is how the sections are
arranged.
Now one important domain here, which is not part of the study guide is the exam preparation section.
So in this section we look into some of the very important pointers that are part of the certification.
We also have exam preparation practice test that will allow you to validate your knowledge to see if
you are prepared for the exams.
Great.
So that's the high level overview about what this course is all about and the structure based on which
the course is designed.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Note - New Certification Page ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Section 2 - Image Creation, Management, and Registry ===


--- PPT Notes - Docker Certified Associate ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Section 3 - Networking ===


--- Introduction to Docker Containers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the basics of Docker, the advantages that the Docker offers,
which really makes it as one of the great technologies available and also a small demo before we conclude
the video.
So let's go ahead and understand more about it now before we go ahead and understand the advantages
that the Docker offers, let's look into a typical installation of software workflow.
I'm sure that most of you might have already experienced this with your workstation.
Now let's say that we have a Windows operating system and you want to install certain applications or
you want to install a certain game.
Now the first step is to download the installer.
So installer would be a typical dot exe file.
Now once you download the installer, you go ahead and double click on the exe file so that the installer
starts to run.
Now, during the middle of the installation, many of you might have already experienced that you get
an error message during installation, saying that certain files are missing or certain dependencies
are missing, etcetera.
So you start to troubleshoot the issue so that you understand the fix to solve this specific error message.
Now, once you troubleshoot it and once you install a specific dependency, you rerun the installer
and maybe you get another error, which might not be the same as the previous one.
Now again, you go back to the same cycle of troubleshooting it and rerunning the installer.
Now you still remember this type of workflow you typically see specifically when you used to install
the GTA game.
Now it always used to say that there are certain DLLs which are missing certain dependencies which are
missing and you had to go through this software workflow at least a time or two to make sure that you
have all the dependencies and all the requirements to install the game.
Now this workflow that we were discussing over here, this is the end user workflow.
Now there is also a workflow related to the development.
Now let's say that this is a programmer who works very hard developing a software, so he has developed
this specific software.
Now, depending upon the way in which he has created the software, it might or it might not work out
of the box in the operating system.
So let's say that he has created a software through Visual Studio, so it might work directly in Windows.
It will not work in Linux, it will not work in Mac.
And this is a pain for the programmer because if he wants that software to work in Linux, if he wants
to make it work in Mac, it is really a pain.
He might use Java, but if let's say he does not really wants to use Java out of the box, it really
becomes difficult for the developer as well.
So what he can do, he can create the software, he can put it in a Docker container.
Now he can deploy the Docker container in Windows, he can deploy it in Linux, he can deploy it in
Mac, and he can be 100% sure that the Docker container software that he has tested in his local environment
will work perfectly in Windows, it will work perfectly in Linux and it will work perfectly in Mac and
all the operating system which the Docker supports.
So this really becomes much more easier for the developer to push his software to a wide variety of
operating system and also all the dependencies which are required by this specific software.
Because during the second slide that we are discussing that a software installation typically fails
due to dependency issues.
ET cetera.
He can put all of these dependencies within the Docker container itself, so once he deploys the Docker
container to any operating system, it will work out of the box and the end user does not really have
to do anything other than running this specific Docker container.
So with this, let's understand what Docker is in a definitive terms.
So Docker is basically an open platform.
Now once we build a Docker container, we can run it anywhere.
We can run it in Windows, we can run it in Linux, we can run it in Mac, whether it is a laptop,
it is in a data center or it is in a cloud.
Now it follows build once run anywhere approach.
So that basically means that once the software developer has built his own Docker container, he can
run it anywhere.
He can run it in windows, he can run it in Linux, he can run it in Mac as well, in a perfectly working
condition depending upon the test that he has performed while he has created the Docker container.
So this is the theoretical perspective.
Let me quickly give you a demo so that we have a good understanding about this.
So for our demo purposes we'll be taking the example of Nginx.
Now, Enginex is a very popular web server in the market.
Now we'll consider Nginx to be this software which has been written by an organization.
Now if you look into the technical specification of Nginx under the supported distribution, it does
support Amazon Linux.
Then you have CentOS, DB and FreeBSD.
Then you have the Red Hat Linux, Susie, Ubuntu, etcetera.
But it does not really support Windows.
And this is the reason why I intentionally, I have used this specific web server for our demo purpose.
Now what we need to ensure is that if we try to install this in Windows, it will not really work because
you will not have a exe file out of the box.
So what you need to do is you can put this entire Nginx within a Docker container and once you have
done that, you can deploy the Docker container in Windows Linux as well as Mac.
Now again, Mac is not supported here, but if it is under the Docker container, it will work irrespective
of whether Nginx is supported out of the box or not.
Now the first thing that we typically need to verify whether the Nginx docker container is available
or not.
So this is the Docker Hub website and here you see there is a Nginx container which is available and
this is the official image.
So let me click over here and if we go a bit down, you see this is the Nginx official image and basically
here is the command to pull the Nginx image.
And if you go a bit down, you will see various commands which are available in which you can run the
specific image.
So generally there are two steps which are involved.
Generally when you use Docker, the first step is basically this specific Docker container image.
It would be in a specific website.
Now Docker Hub is one such website, so you have to pull this image or I would say you have to download
this image within your operating system where you want to start the container from it.
Now for that you have the command of Docker pull Nginx.
Now once the image is downloaded, you can go ahead and start the container from it.
So let's look into how exactly this would work.
Now let me copy this up and from my windows cli, I'll paste the Docker pull Nginx command.
So this command will go ahead and download the Nginx image from the Docker hub repository.
Now do remember that before this command works, you need to make sure that you have the Docker daemon
installed within your operating system.
Now Docker supports Windows Linux as well as Mac.
And basically if you see over here, I have the Docker daemon which is running and this is the reason
why my Docker command works perfectly.
So let's quickly wait for a moment for our image to get downloaded.
All right.
So our Nginx image has been successfully downloaded.
Now the next thing that you need to do is you have to start the container from that image.
So for that I'll write a simple command of Docker run.
I'll specify a port mapping, let's say 80, 80 to the 80 of the container.
Let me specify the container image, which is nginx.
So it has given us the long output over here.
But if we quickly do a Docker PS, then you should see that there is a Nginx container which has started
up.
Now in order to verify, I am in my ignito mode and I'll put 127001 colon 88 and now you see it basically
is showing me the index dot HTML page of nginx.
So that means my nginx is perfectly working in the Docker container and I'm able to access that within
my Windows browser.
So this is the great advantage of the Docker containers.
You don't really need to worry whether it is supported or whether the application is supported in Windows
or not, or whether the application is supported in Linux or not.
As long as you can put it under the Docker container, you will be able to run it in Windows Linux as
well as Mac or in fact any operating system where the official Docker daemon is supported.
So with this, I hope you understood at the high level overview on what Docker is all about.
Now one great thing in fact two advantages we just saw.
One was Nginx was not supported in Windows but through the Docker container.
It is perfectly working.
And second is we did not really have to worry about installation of Nginx and taking care of all of
the dependencies.
ET cetera.
All we did was we pulled this specific docker container of Nginx and that container itself had all the
required dependencies to run the Nginx web server.
And once we pulled it, we went ahead and started the Docker container and that's about it.
And this is the reason why Docker as a technology has become extremely popular.
And typically if you look into the roles of DevOps or SREs, having a good understanding of Docker is
a mandatory thing which a lot of organizations are looking for.
And even as a software developer, primarily because of such advantages that it offers, a lot of organizations
are also mandating that the software developers should also have at least basic knowledge about the
Docker containers.
So this is the high level overview about the introduction to Docker.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.


=== Section 4 - Orchestration ===


--- Our Community ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Section 5 -  Installation and Configuration of Docker EE ===


--- Installation Methods for Docker ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Section 6 - Security ===


--- Creating Infrastructure for Docker Setup ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about the infrastructure that will be creating for a Docker
setup.
Now, as we are discussing in the earlier video to begin with, in the initial sections, you can go
ahead and decide to install the Docker desktop directly within your laptop.
However, for this course, the preferred choice for Docker installation would be Linux.
Now do note that we'll be exploring both the Linux based installation method as well as the Docker desktop
based installation method in the upcoming videos.
Now, if you're using a Linux based installation method, then you will need a server.
So to begin with, what we'll be doing is we'll be creating a new server in the digital ocean environment
in case if you have a credit for other providers, you can go ahead and launch a new server in that
provider.
One important part to note here is that make sure that you choose the Ubuntu operating system primarily
because the video for installing Docker in Linux would be based on Ubuntu OS.
So once we have the server up and running, the next step would be to install the docker and then we
can go ahead and learn various features of Docker.
Now whenever you launch a new server, depending upon the cloud provider that you choose, there are
multiple authentication methods that are available.
The first primary one is a password based authentication, so this is a simplest authentication method
available.
So let's assume that you have a server up and running.
You go ahead and you log in with the username, so you try to connect to the server with the SSH username
and the server will respond back asking you for the password.
Now, although the password based authentication is supported by multiple cloud providers, this is
not a recommended approach specifically if your servers over the internet.
So the better approach is a key based authentication.
So in this type of authentication, there are two special types of keys that are generated.
One is referred as a public key, second is referred as a private key.
So if you look into this diagram, you have two keys, you have a public key and you have a private
key.
So what happens in this approach is that the public key that is created, that public key is stored
in the server that you launch, and in order to log in to the server, you will have to use the corresponding
private key.
So let me quickly show you this.
So currently you see that there are two keys that are created.
One is the private key over here and second one is the public key.
Now if I show you the contents of the private key, so this is just a test key.
You see the contents of the private key is much more bigger.
And this is the reason why specifically, if you have servers over the Internet that has a password
based authentication enabled, you will see that the attackers would launch a brute force attack and
they'll try thousands of password combination to connect to the Linux server with various usernames.
However, if you have a key based authentication and the key is so big, it becomes very difficult to
go ahead and run a brute force attack here.
And this is the reason why for the server that we will be launching over Digitalocean, we will be choosing
a key based authentication.
All right.
So currently I'm in the Digitalocean console and what we need is we need a new Linux server.
So in Digital Ocean the server is referred as a droplet.
Now again, depending upon the cloud provider that you choose, the name changes.
So in AWS it is called as the EC2 instance and so on.
So let's go to the droplets here.
And currently I have one droplet that is available for our Splunk course.
However, let's go ahead and create a new droplet so you can go ahead and click on Create.
You can select the droplet over here.
Now within the first thing that you will be choosing is the operating system.
You can choose the Ubuntu one.
Now the next important setting is to choose a specific droplet size.
So there are multiple droplet size that are available depending upon the Ram and CPU requirements.
We'll be using the basic one, which is the $5 per month droplet over here.
The next important part is to choose a data center region.
You can select the data center, the one that is closest to your location.
Since I'm based out of India, I'll be using Bangalore.
The next important part is the authentication.
Now do note that there are multiple authentication methods that are available.
As we were discussing, you have a password based authentication where you can go ahead and you can
type the password that you need for the server.
This works perfectly well.
However, this is not the best of the approaches.
The ideal approach is to go ahead and create an SSH key.
So currently you see I have multiple SSH keys that are available.
In fact, each ssh key is for a different droplet, for a different course.
So the Splunk keys or a splunk course console keys for our console course you have.
For our Kubernetes course.
So what we'll be doing is we'll be creating a new SSH key.
So let's go ahead and create a new SSH key and it will ask you to paste the contents over here.
Now currently I'm in my Windows terminal and I have the SSH related utilities that are already installed.
So if I just type SSH, you will basically get a prompt related to usage.
Now in case if you're using Windows operating system and if the SSH is not really present, then you
can go ahead and enable it as part of the Windows features.
Now let me quickly show you.
So in Windows, if you explore the optional features over here and within here, you have to make sure
that the open SSH related packages are enabled.
If they are enabled, then this command will work for Mac OS.
You do not really need to worry because SSH client comes by default.
So it is very straightforward in Mac.
Now in order to go ahead and create a new public private key, you'll have to run a command called as
SSH key gen.
It is asking you to select the location where this public and private key will be stored.
Let me go ahead and copy this up.
I'll paste it here.
The name of the key.
You can change it.
Let's say Docker underscore RSA, I I'll not enter any passphrase for the key.
I'll press enter multiple times and are public and private key is created.
So let's go ahead and explore this.
So within my C drive I'll go to users.
Let's go to zalora and you have a SSH directory here.
And currently you see I have a docker underscore RSA, which is the private key.
Do note that you should not share this key with anyone.
This is like a password and you have a docker underscore RSA dot pub which is a public key and this
is the key that you will be uploading it to the server.
So let's go ahead and open this public key.
You can open it up with any utility like notepad that you have within your operating system.
So this is the public key.
Let's go ahead and copy this up.
And within our digitalocean we'll go ahead and paste this key.
Let's just call it as Docker key.
All right, We'll add the SSH key here.
So now under the SSH key, you can select the Docker key once.
Then the next step is to choose a hostname.
Now you can go ahead and choose any name that you require for your droplet.
You can say something like Docker demo or any name that you intend to use here.
And optionally, if you have multiple projects available within the Digitalocean console, you can just
select the appropriate project.
If you do not have multiple projects, you can just use the default settings that is available once,
then you can go ahead and create a droplet.
Perfect.
So it took around two minutes and our new droplet is up and running.
Now, if you'll see, you basically get a public IP, which you can use to connect to your server.
So let's go ahead and copy the public IP here.
Now from your terminal, you can quickly go to the dot SSH directory.
So basically the directory where your key is stored and from here you can specify the name of the key.
In our case it is Docker underscore RSA, followed by the name of the user and the IP address of the
server first.
And when you connect it will ask you for a confirmation on the fingerprint.
We'll put a yes.
And now you see we are connected.
So once you're connected in the upcoming video, we'll be looking into how we can install the Docker
and Linux.
And then we'll start with learning the Docker features in great detail.


=== Section 7 - Storage and Volumes ===


--- Installing Docker in Linux ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So now that we have our first server up and running using Linux, the next step is to go ahead and install
the Docker.
So let's look into the steps that are involved here.
Now within the documentation associated with installation of Docker Engine, it basically shows you
the platforms that are officially supported.
We were discussing about Docker desktop, which is supported for both Mac as well as Windows.
Apart from that, Docker works perfectly well in CentOS, Debian, fedora Ubuntu as well.
So what we'll be doing is we'll be exploring the Ubuntu base installation step.
So let's go ahead and explore the Ubuntu base steps here.
Let's go a bit down.
And within a year, one of the first step that you need to do is you have to run the app, get update.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll copy this up.
So currently I'm connected to the server with the root user.
Let's go ahead and run the app update.
That's great.
The next step is to install certain prerequisite packages, so I'll copy this up.
Let's clear the screen and let's paste it here.
I'll press a Y for the confirmation here.
Perfect.
The next step is where you need to go ahead and add the official GPG key.
So let's go ahead and copy this up.
Let's clear the screen, I'll paste it here and our key is installed.
Once your key is installed in the third primary step, you can go ahead and configure the appropriate
repository.
So let's go ahead and copy this command.
I'll paste it.
And now once you have these prerequisite steps done, now you can go ahead and start to install the
Docker engine.
So installation process is very straightforward.
You have APT get update and then you have APT get install Docker and few other CLI packages.
So let's do an apt get update here.
And now we'll go ahead and install the Docker Community edition related packages.
I'll press y for confirmation.
Perfect.
So a Docker engine is installed.
Now, if you'll quickly do a systemctl status docker, you should see that Docker is up and running.
And if you run Docker info.
So here you will see various details related to your virtual machine.
And if you go a bit up, it also shows you various details related to the Docker plugins and various
other information here.
Great.
So as we have seen the installation of Docker on Linux is a very straightforward process.
What I'll be doing is I'll be sharing the commands that we have used after this lecture, so you can
also go ahead and try this out in case, if you're going ahead with the Docker desktop based installation
to begin with.
In the upcoming video, we'll also look into how this would work.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.


=== Exam Preparation Section ===


--- Document - Linux Installation Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Installing Docker Desktop ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how we can install the Docker desktop.
Now for today's video, we'll be using the Windows version of Docker Desktop.
However, even for Mac OS, the overall installation process is very similar.
So the first thing that you'll do is you'll go ahead and download the Docker desktop.
So here you'll see that there are multiple versions of Docker desktop that are available.
You can go ahead and choose the appropriate version for your operating system.
Now for this case, I'll be using the download for Windows button.
So what it will do, it will go ahead and download the Docker desktop with the extension of X.
Now do note that the overall size of Docker desktop is a little big, so it's somewhere around 525 MB.
Now once your binary is installed, all you'll have to do is you'll have to double click on it for the
installation to continue.
So let's double click here.
Great.
So it took around five minutes and a Docker desktop installation is completed.
So let's do a close over here and let's open up the Docker desktop.
Now in Windows.
If you go here, you will see that the Docker desktop is currently in the starting state.
Do note that it is a little resource heavy application so it can take a minute for it to start.
So I'll double click here and it will show you the GUI.
So the Docker engine is currently in the starting state.
All right.
So once your Docker engine is up and running under the containers, it will basically show you that
there are no containers that are running.
This is completely fine because we are not really launched the container here.
Now here you can also see various things like the Docker images if you are creating Docker volumes.
So all these things you will be able to see from the GUI along with this, you can also go ahead and
sign in and for here you will basically need the credentials for Hub.docker.com along with this.
If you quickly go to the settings over here, there are multiple options that are available which you
can go ahead and explore as well as modify depending upon your needs.
Now for the Windows users, one important part to remember here is that it basically currently you see
it is based on the WSL two based engine.
Now in Windows, there are multiple options to start the Docker desktop.
One is the WSL two, and you can also make use of a Hyper-V based backend.
Sometimes for some users you will see that things are not really working well with WSL two.
In such cases you need to make sure that the Hyper-V is enabled.
Now let me quickly show you on how you can do that.
So if you open up the turn Windows features on or off here currently you see that the Hyper-V is not
enabled.
So if you want to associate the Docker desktop with Hyper-V, you first need to enable the Hyper-V from
your Windows features and then you can go ahead and deselect the use WSL two based engine.
So this is specifically for the Windows users.
So let's go ahead and do a cancel.
So once your Docker desktop is up and running.
You can open up the command prompt here from Windows.
Make sure you open a new command prompt and from here you can type Docker info.
And within a year you will see that there are multiple configurations related to the docker that you
can explore.
However, if this command is working fine, your docker is up and running perfectly well.
That's great.
So now that we have the Docker up and running in the upcoming video, we'll go ahead and start to learn
the Docker related terminologies and features.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - Docker Desktop ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Docker Image vs Docker Containers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll have a very high level overview about certain terminologies like images
and containers with respect to Dockers.
Now, when you start to work with the Dockers, the Docker image and Docker containers is one of the
terminologies which will come pretty often.
So let's look into what exactly they mean at a high level overview.
Now the Docker image is a file which contains all the necessary dependencies and configurations which
are required to run an application.
So let's understand this with a below diagram.
So let's say that you have a Docker image for the Nginx web server.
So this image of Nginx would have the Nginx binary, it would have all the necessary configurations
related to Nginx.
It will also have all the necessary dependencies which are required for the Nginx web server to start.
All right.
So this image is basically all that is needed for the application to start in a high level overview.
Now this image by itself is not running.
So a Docker container is basically a running instance of an image.
So from image, we launch a container and this is the container which is running and where the execution
happens.
So let's understand this with a quick demo.
So before we go ahead and we can start the container, basically container is a running instance of
image is something that we discussed.
So before we can start the container, we need to have the image within our workstation or within our
servers.
Now within the Docker hub, which is Hub.docker.com, there are a lot of container images which are
already available.
Now you have image of Nginx, MongoDB, Alpine, Redis, etcetera.
So depending upon the use case that you have, you can go ahead and download the required image.
So let's go ahead and click on Nginx.
So first thing, as we already were discussing in the introduction video, the first thing before we
can start the Docker container is we need to download the image associated with that container.
So for our Nginx container we need to download the associated Nginx image.
So if I quickly copy this up and within my CLI, if I do a docker pull Nginx.
Now this command will go ahead and download the Nginx image which is there within the Docker hub.
Great.
So now within the status you see it states that it has downloaded the newer image of Nginx.
Now if you quickly do a Docker images, you should see that there is one image which is available and
the size is 109 MB Now this is just the image.
There is nothing which is running.
So if I just try to open this up and see whether the Nginx page loads in browser or not, it will not
load because this image is just a file and this is not running.
So if I can quickly do a docker.
PS you see that there are no containers which are running.
So now what I need to do is I need to create a new container from the specific image.
So in order to do that, I'll type Docker run, I'll say hyphen d t, I'll specify the port, let's
say the port is 8080, and you can specify the image ID, so I can specify the image ID here or you
can also type Nginx.
So when I press enter, it should give you a long string.
And now if you do a docker PS you should see that there is one container which has been created.
Now this container is basically what we were discussing, a running instance of an image.
All right.
Now in order to verify whether things are working or not, let me do a ifconfig.
So I'll copy up the IP address of my server in case you are doing it within your laptop.
You should replace this with 127001.
So I'll copy this up and I'll specify port 80 and typically you should see the default.
Welcome to Nginx page up and running.
Great.
So let's go back to the server and let's do a docker.
PS So this is our container which is currently up and running.
Now you can go ahead and you can stop the container also.
So in order to do that you can do a Docker stop and you can specify the name over here.
So if you do not specify the name while creating the container, the Docker will basically use one of
the names which it has within its list.
So now let me do a Docker stop.
And currently it has stopped the container.
So if I can quickly do a docker.
PS you should see that there is no container which is up and running.
So if I can go ahead and refresh this.
You see it works.
And the reason why it is working is because it is the browser based cache.
So if you quickly want to verify that, you can just copy this up and paste it in CLI.
I'll paste it in CLI.
Let's put port 80 here and I'll remove the Http part and let's quickly do a curl and you see it is basically
saying connection refused.
The reason why it's saying connection refused is because there is nothing which is listening on port
80 of this specific server.
So now let's go back to Docker PS.
So currently, once the container is stopped, it will not appear within the Docker PS.
So in order for you to see it, you have to put Docker ps hyphen A.
Now when you put Docker PS hyphen A, you will be able to see the container irrespective of the status.
So currently the status of this container is exited.
So let's go ahead and start the container.
I'll do a docker start and I'll put the container name over here.
All right.
So now if I quickly do a Docker, PS, you should be able to see that I have one Docker container which
is up and running.
So let me clear the screen here.
And since this Docker container is associated with Port 80, you should see that I have the Port 80
over here which has appeared.
And now if we run the same curl command, you should see that I'm getting a Http 200.
Okay.
Which means the response has been successfully received by the Nginx web server.
Great.
So this is the high level overview about the Docker container and the Docker images.
Again, we'll be discussing about each of this command because we had run hyphen P while we were configuring
our first Docker container.
We also ran hyphen D, so we'll be discussing about that in the relevant section.
But today's video was specific to understanding at a high level overview the difference between the
Docker images and Docker container.
So just to revise if you type Docker images, this is a specific file which contains the necessary configuration,
necessary binaries, necessary dependencies for a specific application.
And when you do a Docker PS, this is basically a running version of a Docker container which was started
from the specific image.
So that's about it.
At a high level overview about this video, I hope this video has been informative for you and look
forward to see you in the next video.

--- Container Identification ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the container identification.
Now, whenever you create a Docker container, it is assigned a universal, unique identifier, which
is also referred as the Uuid.
Now, this Uuid, basically it helps in distinguishing as well as identify the Docker containers.
So within this screenshot, if you see we are doing a Docker run.
So this is basically a command which creates a Docker container and once this command gets executed
you have a long Uuid here.
So this is what is referred as the Uuid.
Now this Uuid is basically good for the system perspective, but for the users it is basically very
hard to remember as well as identify.
Let's say that there are two Docker containers which has two different IDs.
So as a user it becomes difficult for me to identify which docker container is which.
And this is the reason why we also have the option of container names.
Now, Docker also allows us to supply the container name, but one important thing to remember here
is that by default, if we do not specify the name, Docker will supply a randomly generated name from
two words joined by an underscore.
So if you look into this screenshot, basically this was the Docker container that we had ran earlier.
We did not really specify the name in the Docker run command and hence Docker gave a name which is randomly
generated, which is inspiring.
Poitras's.
All right, I hope I spell it right.
Anyways, I hope you got what the second point over here means.
Now you can also specify the name.
You do not really need to have this randomly generated name for your Docker containers.
Now you can add your own name with the help of hyphen.
Hyphen name is equal to whatever name you want to assign to a Docker container.
So you can specify this while you are doing a Docker run command.
So if you see the screenshot here, you have the Docker run and we are specifying the name over here.
Now the name is my Nginx.
And then after you execute this command you have the long Uuid and then when you do a Docker.
PS If you look into the name column, it is my Ingenix So now if there are ten containers which are
running, it is quite easy to identify because for ten containers I'll be giving a ten different team
from which I'll be able to distinguish between them.
So let me quickly jump to the CLI and let's try this out.
So let's run the Docker command yet again.
This time we'll run it with a name and I'll call it my Nginx.
All right, we'll put a hyphen D and I'll specify the port mapping, say port 8000 to port 80 and I'll
specify the image which is Nginx.
Now, as soon as it got executed, you have this long Uid number.
Now if you quickly do a Docker PS over here, this is the container which got created.
Now the container name is my Nginx.
So now it really becomes easier to identify.
Now you also have a container ID, so this is the container ID, This is basically the first 12 characters
of the long Uid.
So if you see you have seven one, one, A, B and same will be identified over here.
However, the easier approach for us is to remember by the container name.
So this is the high level overview about the container identification.
Do remember that there are three ways in which you can identify.
First is through the longer uid that you would see.
Second is the shorthand format of that.
And the third is the container name that we specify.
Now, before we actually conclude this video, let me quickly show you a few things.
Now, we already discussed that you have a longer Uid, you have the shorter one and you have the container
name.
Now whatever command that you might type, let's say I want to stop a Docker container so I can reference
by the container name.
Let's try it out.
Let's try Docker.
Stop, I'll specify the container name and the container has stopped.
So if you quickly want to do a docker, PS, you will see the container has stopped.
Now if I want to start the container instead of the name, I can definitely specify the name.
It will work correctly.
I can also specify this one.
All right, so now if you quickly do a Docker, PS you see the.
My nginx container has started.
And now let's try the Uuid.
So I'll say Docker stop.
I'll specify the full Uuid and basically the my nginx container should have stopped.
And now you see you only have one Docker container which is up and running.
So I hope you understood.
There are three ways of identification of a specific Docker container with this specific example.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Port Binding ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the port binding now in one of the Docker run commands
that we have been executing.
If you remember, we always used to give the hyphen P option and then we used to specify the ports over
here.
So it is important for us to understand on what exactly this means and what is the use of it.
Now, by default, Docker can make the connections to the outside world, but the outside world cannot
connect to the Docker containers directly.
Now, if we want the containers to accept the incoming connections from the world, we need to bind
it to a specific host port.
So let's understand this with a diagram here.
So we have a Nginx container which is running now.
Nginx container is running on port 80.
So by default someone from outside world will not be able to connect to my nginx on port 80.
All right.
Because this nginx container itself has a different ip address altogether.
So what we have to do is if someone wants to connect to my nginx, we have to bind the port 80 of my
nginx to one of the ports of the host machine.
So let's say you can bind it to a port 8080 of the docker.
Host Now after you bind it, what happens is that from the outside world, if someone tries to open
up the IP address of the Docker host followed by the port 8080, then the request would be directed
to the port 80 of the Nginx container.
So this is the high level overview.
Again, this would be little confusing.
So let's jump into practical and understand on what I mean by this.
So if I do a Docker, PS we have one container image which is up and running Now, this container image,
if you see over here, there is a bind.
So it is under the ports section over here.
So if you just want to see it in a better way because of the screen, it is not really appearing in
the straight line.
So if I just copy it up in the notepad, you will see that under the ports section you have the port.
So this port that you see over here, this port is the port of my host and this is the port of my docker
container.
So this means that any request that comes to the port 80 of the Docker host would be sent to the port
80 of the Docker container.
Now, since this is the Nginx web server, it is listening on Port 80 inside the Docker container.
However, if you would like to see if I quickly do a Docker inspect, let's do a Docker inspect.
You see it is giving a lot of information.
Now one of the information is the IP address.
So this is the IP address of my Docker container.
So one 7270 0.2 So this is the private IP address.
That means that from the outside network I will not be able to connect to the private IP address over
here.
All right.
So it's like the Nginx web server is listening on the private IP address.
So the Docker container has an IP address of 172 dot x.
Let's assume this and it is listening on port 80.
Now from the internet.
I cannot connect over here since this is a private networking that is being created.
So what I need to do is that I have to connect to the host.
This is the Docker host, so let's try it out.
So let me do one thing.
I'll do a Docker run command again.
Let's say I'll do a Docker run, I'll specify hyphen D So this time I'll say port 8000 and port 80.
Let's also specify the name.
I'll say my Nginx and the Nginx image name.
All right, so now if you do a Docker PS over here, you should see that port 8000 of my host machine
is mapped to port 80 of the container.
So if I quickly do a netstat hyphen p, you will see that there is a new port 8000 which is created
and the program name associated is the Docker proxy.
All right, so now if I copy the IP address and I specify 8000 over here, you see you are getting the
welcome to Nginx page.
So I hope you begin to understand on what exactly this port mapping is all about.
You can have any port here as well.
So the simplest way is to have port 80 to port 80.
So this is one of the simplest way.
However, you can specify any custom port on the host side.
So any user which connects to this custom port, that request would be forwarded inside the container.
So with this, I hope you understood on what the hyphen P is all about.
So in this screenshot I have Port 800 which is associated with port 80.
All right, but this is something like a variable.
You can put any custom port which you intend to over here.
So this is the overview about the port binding.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Attached and Detached Modes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the attached and detached mode of your Docker containers.
Now, when we want to start our Docker container, the first thing that we need to do is we have to
decide if we want to run it in a default foreground mode or in the detached mode.
Now the benefit of foreground mode is that you will be able to directly see all the output on your terminal
and if you do not really want to see all the output within your terminal, you can make use of the detached
mode.
So let's quickly jump to the CLI so that we can understand this in a quicker way.
So I'm in my CLI and if I do a docker images, I have one nginx image which is up and running.
So let's do a Docker run, I'll specify the name, I'll call it as say detached or let me call it as
attached.
I'll specify the port as well, let me call it as 80, 80 and I'll point it to the 80 of the container
and I'll specify the container image.
All right.
So now what happened was earlier when we used to run the Docker run command, it basically used to give
us the big Uid and we got access back to our terminal.
Now what has happened here is that since this container has been started with the default foreground,
you are not able to get back the access to the terminal.
However, if you go to the 8080 port within your browser, you will be able to see the default nginx
screen.
So let's quickly verify that.
So I'll just put my IP address and I'll specify 8080 over here.
And you see I got the default nginx screen and within the CLI you should see the logs.
So these are the nginx logs.
So since this is running in the foreground, all of the data is coming to you on your terminal.
Now the problem with this type of approach is that let's say that you want to have back your terminal.
You have to open up a new TV.
So you have to open up your new terminal.
And along with that, if I press the control C over here and when I press control C, I got back my
access to the terminal.
And if I do a docker.
PS You see that the container got exited.
So if I quickly do a Docker PS hyphen A, you will see that the container with the name of attached
got exited and this is the reason why hyphen D really proves to be very useful.
So now let's say we'll run the same command.
Let me go a bit up.
So we'll run the same command this time with the hyphen D option.
Let's change the port here.
I'll say 8081 and it basically says that there is a conflict in the name.
All right, so let's change this up.
I missed to change it anyways, so let's try it out.
And now you see, you got the Uuid and the benefit of running this.
So D is basically for detached.
So the benefits of running this in a detached mode is that you have the access to your terminal and
this specific container process will be running in the background.
So I hope you understood the benefit of Hyphen D.
I hope this quick video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Removing Docker Containers ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we look into how we can go ahead and stop the Docker containers, as well as
how we can remove the unused containers.
Now, if you quickly do a Docker, PS, you will see that there are multiple containers which are currently
running and if you do a Docker PS hyphen A it will give you the list of containers which are running
as well as the list of containers which are not running or in the exited state.
Now let's assume that there are 20 containers which are currently running and you want to stop each
and every container which are currently running.
Now how you can do that now, one quick way is if you do a Docker container stop and followed by the
name of the container.
This is the trivial way because this works.
So if I press enter.
So now if you do a docker PS you should see that the container is in stopped state.
So although that is a trivial way, but it takes a lot of time.
So if you have a lot of containers, this is not the right approach.
So in order to do a specific operation in mass, so let's say there are 20 containers which are in the
stopped state and you want to start it.
So in such kind of a use cases, you can do something like follows.
So you can say Docker container ls hyphen EC.
So let's understand what this does.
So this specific command here.
So let's try it out.
So I'll say Docker container ls hyphen EC.
So this will basically give you the list of IDs associated with the Docker containers which are currently
present within my workstation.
And what we are doing with this is we are passing this IDs that you see over here to the Docker container
stop command.
So in this case, Docker container Stop command will get the list of IDs of the containers.
So if you have 20 containers, the Docker container stop command will get the IDs of 20 containers and
it will go ahead and stop all of those containers.
So let's try it out.
So before we do that, let's do one thing, let's do a Docker.
PS So currently you see that there is one container which is running.
So now let's go ahead and run this command.
So basically this command will be applied on all the containers because here you get the IDs associated
with all the containers within the system.
Great.
So now if you quickly do a Docker, PS, you should see that all the containers are in the stopped state.
So this is one quick way.
Now if you do a Docker PS hyphen A, you will see that you have four containers which are exited.
Now, if you want to remove a specific container, you can run the command Docker container, remove
followed by the container ID or the container name.
So let's try it out.
So let's go ahead and remove a container which has the name of attached.
So I'll say docker container remove attached.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker PS hyphen A, you will see that the container has been removed.
Now if you have a lot of unnecessary containers which are in the stopped state and you want to clean
it up again, you can make use of a similar command.
So you have docker container remove and you can pass on the command Docker container.
LS hyphen ec.
All right.
So now it has removed all the containers.
So if you do a Docker PS hyphen A, you will see that there are no containers which are currently available.
So that's about it.
On how you can stop as well as remove the containers in mass.
So do remember, this kind of statement will really make your life simple in the long run.
So with this will conclude this video, I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward
to see you in the next video.

--- New Docker CLI Commands ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So in the earlier videos, we had been making use of the basic Docker commands like Docker Stop, Docker
Run and various others.
So although that is the working one, however, Docker is moving to a different set of command structure.
So let me quickly give you an example.
So currently I am in the Docker and this is the base command.
So base command is you have the Docker as the base command and then you have various commands like attach,
build, checkpoint, commit, etcetera.
So now how Docker is moving is let me show you.
So if you see over here you have a Docker container.
Now let's click here and within the Docker container also you have commands like Docker container attach,
Docker container commit.
However you see on the base command, also you have something like Docker attach, then you have Docker
commit, etcetera.
So both of these commands does the similar thing.
However, Docker is now moving towards this specific command structure.
So for the individuals who have been using Docker since long time, they are still used to commands
like Docker attach, Docker build, however we should be.
Familiar with the Docker Container Command, because moving forward, this is the correct way in which
you can define things.
So let me quickly show you a quick demo.
So currently if I do a Docker PS here you see that there are multiple containers.
Now you can run a command like Docker Stop container zero one and this will work perfectly fine.
So our container is stopped.
However, you can also make use of Docker container stop and you can specify the other container which
is currently running, which is container zero two.
So you see it does the same thing.
Now if you do a Docker PS over here, both the containers are stopped.
So earlier we never had the Docker container.
We always used to make use of the Docker followed by the sub command.
However, nowadays Docker has started to add a lot of things under the Docker container.
So if you see you have Docker container attached, Docker container, CP, docker container create,
etcetera.
So this is the correct way.
And since you are learning Docker, it's better to get used with the newer approach of commands.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- docker container exec ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the Docker container exec.
Now the Docker container exec command runs a new command inside a running container.
Now, one important part to remember here is that the command started using the Docker exec only runs
while the containers primary process is running and it is not restarted.
If the container is restarted, we'll look into this specific aspect while we are doing practical,
but the overview of this specific slide can be understood with the diagram over here.
So here you have a nginx docker container and here the primary process might be in Pid1 is the Nginx.
However, within this container there can be various other programs as well.
So it can be bash, it can be ping, etcetera.
So you can definitely run these things as well alongside the Nginx.
So this is one important part to remember.
However, as the second point says, that if this primary nginx process goes down, then the container
would exit.
So let's jump into the demo and see on how exactly this might look like.
So I'm in my CLI and let's create a new container from the nginx image.
So I'll say docker container run, I'll specify hyphen D, I'll also specify name name.
I'll say Docker exec because this is the video that we are doing right now and I'll specify the container
name which is Nginx.
So Nginx container should have been successfully started.
If I do a docker.
PS you should see that our Nginx container has been started.
Now this nginx container, basically it has the Nginx process which is up and running.
However, it can also contain various aspects like bash, ping, etcetera and you will be able to connect
to them.
So let's try it out.
So let's say Docker container exec I'll say hyphen it, specify the name of your container, which is
Docker Exec in our case and specify.
Bash All right.
And now you see you are inside the container now.
And if you quickly do a sec init dot d nginx status, you will see that nginx is running.
So this is like you are logging in inside your docker container.
Now, the reason why you are able to do that was because this container under the bin directory had
bash which was available.
So if you see bash is available over here.
Now there are various other binaries which are also available and you will be able to execute all of
these binaries with the help of the Docker container exec command.
So let's do one thing.
Let's install certain packages inside the container.
Before we do that, we'll run the APT get update.
So basically this container is based on Debian and this is the reason why the apt get update command
will work perfectly here.
If your container is based on, say, Amazon Linux or CentOS, then you will have to do yum update.
Great.
So our apt get update is done.
So we'll quickly do apt get install net hyphen tools.
Great.
So net hyphen tools is installed.
So now you can do a netstat hyphen P and basically you will see that all of these process listening
on a specific port.
So currently you only have nginx over here.
Nginx is on PID one and it is listening on the local port 80.
So this specific netstat command, let's quickly do a which netstat and it is inside the bin directory.
So if I come out of the container.
So in order to do that you can press exit and let's do a docker.
PS Again, you see the Docker container is running.
Now if you want to run the netstat command, you can directly do that.
So let's say Docker container exec let's say I t I'll specify Docker Exec Basically this is the name
of the container.
It can be any name and then you can specify the command, say netstat hyphen NP and you see you are
able to run that command and you got the output so you can run the commands inside the container while
not be logically logged in to the container.
Do remember that.
However, if you connect to bash, then also you can do the netstat hyphen LP or.
Now, I hope you understood at a high level overview on what the Docker container exec command is used
for.
Now, here's the second point that we were discussing that the command started using Docker exec only
runs while the Containers primary process is running.
So in this diagram, if you see the containers, primary process is enginex.
So if you want to verify that, you can in fact run the same command again and from here within the
netstat output, you'll see the program name.
Over here you have a Enginex which is running on Pid1.
So if this specific process exits, then your container will also exit.
Let's look into that.
So currently if I do a docker PS here you see the status is up for five minutes, so let's connect to
the container.
So I'll say Docker container exec and I'll put bash.
All right.
So currently I am inside the container and inside the container.
We already discussed that there is one process which is running, which is Nginx on PID one, and if
this process goes down, let's say let's try to stop this process and see what happens.
So currently I am inside the container.
You see the hostname is one C and so on.
So as soon as I stop this specific process, you see I automatically got logged out from the container
and I'm back to my host.
So if you do a Docker PS over here, you see the container is no longer available and this is the reason
why we had that point in the second point of the PowerPoint presentation, which says that the command
started using Docker exec only runs while the Containers primary process is running.
Because if this is not running, then the Docker container itself would be in the exited state.
All right, So if you typically do a Docker PS hyphen hyphen, all you will see here that your container,
the status is exited.
Now do remember here that instead of hyphen hyphen all you can even do a docker ps hyphen a so whichever
is suitable.
Hyphen hyphen.
All is basically better for understanding and hyphen A is something that you will typically do for quick
works.
So this specific container is exited and you can start this specific container, you can say docker
container start and specify the container name.
All right.
Now if you typically do a Docker, PS, you should see that the container is up and running.
So now if you want to run that command again, let's say Docker container exec it, specify the container
name and do a netstat hyphen.
P you will be able to run the command yet again.
Now here, one important part to remember is that if you try to run commands which are not available
inside the container, you will get an error, something similar to this.
All right.
So make sure that in case if you get an error similar to this, make sure that the executable file is
in the path and available inside the container.
Not all the containers can be attached to via bash.
So this is something that you should always remember.
So before we conclude this video, let me quickly show you one more thing.
Let me type Docker container run.
I'll specify the D and I'll specify the image name.
So this time, instead of using the Nginx image, we'll be using the BusyBox image.
And if I do a Docker PS here you will see that one new container has started.
Now if you want to connect to this container, let's try it out.
I'll say Docker container Exec I'll copy the image name and let's try the bash one.
And you see you are basically getting an error saying that the bash is something which is not within
the path.
So different container has a different way in which you can connect.
So in the case of BusyBox, you can make use of over here.
So SE is used for connecting.
So this is the high level overview about the Docker container exec command.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I'll look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Importance of IT flags ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing the importance of the flag.
Now, if you remember during the Docker container exec video, we had basically run this specific command.
Now, while running this command, we had specified two flags.
One is AI and second is TI.
So in today's video, we will look into what exactly these flags are all about.
Now, one important part to remember is that any process that you create in a Linux environment basically
has three open file descriptors.
One is stdin, second is stdout and second is STD error.
Now let's say that there are two processes which are running over here.
One is bash and second is Unix.
So bash also has STD in std out std error.
Same with Unix.
You have std in stdout and stderr error.
Now std in is basically the standard input.
So any input that you specify to this specific process goes via STD.
So one of the ways in which you can put the input is through your keyboard.
So if you type certain commands, that is the command that goes to the STD in, then you also have various
pipe operators through which you can put the STD in.
So this is the STD in so this can be better understood.
So let's say this is your terminal so that the things that you type in it goes to the STD in and the
things that shows up in your screen.
It comes through the STD out.
Now hyphen I flag so let's go a bit up.
So hyphen I flag basically keeps the STD in open.
So let's go back to our practical and look into how exactly it might look like.
So let me do a docker.
PS here I have one container up and running.
Now let's say Docker container exec.
It will run the same command that we had run in the earlier video to keep the things straight.
I'll say.
Bash And now you see, as expected, we are logged in inside the container.
So here if I type various commands, I'll be able to get the relevant output.
So let's come out of the container.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's run without it Flag.
All right.
And now you see, I automatically got out of the container, so nothing came.
Now let's try one thing.
Let's specify the hyphen.
I flag over here, which basically is for standard in.
So now, after I ran this command, although it did not really get the T over here, but if I type ls,
you will see I'll be able to see the output.
If I type commands like PWD, I'll be able to see the output.
However, you do not really have a T, so let's press ctrl C and now let's put hyphen T, so when you
put hyphen t, you get a T.
So now if you type T, this is the T, and basically this is like a nice way of representation where
you can run your commands.
So let's come up with Ctrl D, you can even type exit over here.
Now let's say you remove hyphen I you only put hyphen t so as expected you got a T but when you run
commands, let's say when you run commands like ls, you will not really get an output because the commands
that you are typing.
So the commands that you are typing, it needs to go to the standard input of a specific process that
you are running.
So currently without AI, you will not be able to send those specific commands.
So let's come out with Ctrl C and if I do a I now and if I do LS, things are working as expected.
So with this short video, I hope you understood the importance of the flag.
Now do remember.
Here, let, let me just come out of the container.
Do remember here that these are the two separate flags.
So it is hyphen hyphen t Now you can even combine them together, but in reality they are two separate
flag because both of them have a different function altogether.
So if I run in this way, I'll be able to make things work as expected.
All right.
So I hope you understood the importance of Hyphen.
I as well as hyphen T so revising the topic, do remember that hyphen.
I flag is basically hyphen hyphen interactive.
So hyphen I is a short form.
Of hyphen hyphen interactive.
You can actually put the entire command over here.
So hyphen flag basically keeps the standard input open even if it is not attached and hyphen t, which
is for hyphen hyphen t.
Basically this flag allocates a pseudo t for your session.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Default Container Commands ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the default container commands in Docker.
Now, if you remember in the earlier videos when we had started a new container from the Nginx image,
the container started over here.
So when you type Docker, PS, this is a container which got started.
However, inside the container, the nginx automatically started.
However, we never defined which process should be started within the container because a container
can have enginex, it can have multiple binaries within the path.
So how did my container automatically start?
Nginx and it did not really start other things like bash or netstat or any other binary.
And the answer to this is in the default container command.
Now if you look into the screenshot under the command section, there is this one command which is started.
Let me quickly show you this within the CLI as well.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly start a new container, let's say Docker container run and I'll specify the Nginx image.
All right.
Now if I do a Docker PS within the command section, you see it automatically started the Nginx process.
So if we can quickly log in to the container.
I will copy the container name.
So now if you look into the engine process, you see the engine is automatically started.
Now there must be some place which basically defines that whenever a container starts, this engine
is something that should be started automatically and that place is what we are referring to, the default
container command.
So let's look into some of the important pointers as far as this topic is concerned.
The first one is that whenever we run a container, a default command executes, which typically runs
as a PID one.
So in case if the Nginx is the process which is going to start from the default command, it typically
runs with the PID one.
And this command that we were discussing, which automatically starts a process when a container starts,
can be defined while we are creating a container image.
So if I typically do a Docker images, there are multiple container images.
Now let's say this is the container image.
Now this container image will have its own default command.
Now let's say that you start a new container from a different image.
Then the BusyBox image will have its own default container command.
So let me quickly show you I'm in my Docker hub and if I type Nginx, let's go to the official Nginx
image.
I'll quickly show you on where exactly do you define that command.
So within this we'll open up one of the Docker file associated with the main line.
So this is a Docker file.
We'll be discussing more about this in the relevant videos.
But just remember that this file is basically used to create the image.
So basically this image that we have over here, this image is created from a specific Docker file and
this is how the Docker file looks like.
Now if you go a bit down, you have a command over here and this is the command which says nginx hyphen
G daemon off.
And if you typically do a docker PS you see within the command you have nginx hyphen daemon off.
So that basically means that whenever a container starts or whenever you launch a new container from
a nginx image, whatever command that has been specified in the image creation process.
So here, whatever command that you specify over here, this command would automatically get started
when you start a container image.
So let's do one thing.
Let's start a new container.
We'll use a different image altogether.
So I'll do a Docker container run, let me put D t, and this time I'll launch from a BusyBox image.
So now if you do a Docker PS here, if you see the command over here, so the default command over here
is SS And again, this default command would change depending upon which container image you launch.
So let's say you launch a Apache image.
Then what you want is whenever a container starts or whenever a container automatically restarts, then
you want Apache process to automatically start even when the container restarts.
So in such kind of a use case, you can specify what you want to start when the container starts or
whenever a container restarts through the directive of CMD and various others.
So this is the high level overview about the default container commands.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overriding Default Container Commands ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the default container command.
Now, one of the questions that generally comes when someone learns the default container command is
whether can we override this specific container command?
So let me quickly give you an example here.
So let's start a new container here.
So I'll say docker container run hyphen D and I'll specify the image, which is Nginx.
All right, So now when you run Docker, PS, this is the container which got started.
And within this container, this is the default command.
Now what happens if you want to change this specific default command or what happens if you want to
add one more argument over here, let's say you have a daemon of you want to change it to daemon on
how can you change this specific default container command.
So in order to do that, there are two ways in which you can do that.
First is you change the default container command itself when the image is created.
So let's say when I do a Docker images over here.
Now this image, this Nginx image itself has a default container command.
So let me quickly show you.
So I'm in my Docker hub and when I type Nginx we'll go to the official Nginx image over here.
So within here we'll go to the main line and this is basically the Dockerfile.
So the image is basically created from the Docker file.
We'll be discussing about the Dockerfile as well as the image creation process in the later sections.
However, we are more interested in the last line over here which is cmd nginx hyphen g daemon.
Now the one way in which you can change the default container command is by modifying the arguments
over here and then you can build a new image from this specific dockerfile.
However, we can also change the default container command when we start the container image.
So let me quickly show you on how you can do that.
So let's say I'll say Docker container run, I'll specify hyphen D, then I'll specify the image over
here.
All right, so this is the image, and then you can replace the default container command with with
whatever command that you might have.
Let's say I'll put it as sleep 500.
And when I press enter and when you do a Docker, PS, you'll see the default container command was
overridden with the command that we executed.
All right, So now if you log in to the container, let me specify the container name and I'll specify
the bash.
So let's do one thing.
Let's run the APT, get update quickly and I'll install a utility called as H2O.
Oops.
All right.
And now if you type stop over here, you will see that the sleep 500.
So this sleep 500, which we replaced the default container command with this has a PID of one.
And we already know that once the PID one exits, then your container will also exit.
So let's see on how exactly that might look like.
So sleep basically, let me type sleep five.
So now what will happen is that it will sleep for five seconds.
After five seconds, the sleep will exit and I'll be back to my TV.
So now if I do a Docker PS here, sleep 500 basically means that this specific process will sleep for
500 seconds and after 500 seconds, the sleep process which was created, it will exit.
And once it will exit, the container itself will also exit.
So let's look into that as well.
So let's type the Docker container command yet again.
And this time, instead of sleep 500, we'll replace it with sleep 20.
All right, So now if I do a Docker, PS, then you have this container and here the container command
is sleep 20.
Now, we already know that whatever process that gets created while you are running this command will
only be valid for the 20s after 20s, the process of sleep will complete itself.
And since this is running as PID one after sleep completes or after sleep process exits, the container
will also exit.
So now let's do a Docker.
PS and you see the container has exited automatically and let's do a Docker PS hyphen A here.
So this is the container which got exited primarily because this specific process was completed.
So next time when I start this specific container, let's try it out.
And when you do a Docker PS again, this specific process of sleep 20 will start after 20s the process
will stop executing and then it will exit itself.
Since the process of PID one exit itself, the container will also exit and same goes with the nginx
container also.
So after the nginx stops then the nginx container will also exit itself.
So this is the high level overview about how you can override the default container command.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Restart Policies in Docker ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the restart policies.
Now, by default, Docker containers will not start when they exit or when the Docker daemon is restarted.
This is very important because let's say that you have this Docker host and there are two Docker containers
which are running.
One is of Nginx and second is of Apache.
Now, due to some reason, the Docker daemon got restarted now after the Docker daemon got restarted,
the containers which were running will not automatically start.
So one quick example is let's say you restart your server and after the restart of your server, your
Docker daemon, once it comes up, then the containers which were running previously will not automatically
start.
So in order to solve this issue, Docker provides us with the restart policies which allows us to control
various aspects related to containers, let's say, when specifically when they exit or when the Docker
restarts.
Now we can specify the restart policy by using the hyphen hyphen restart flag with the Docker run command.
So there are various restart policies which are mentioned over here.
Now before we go ahead and understand that, let me show you a quick demo.
So if I do a Docker, PS there are no containers which are currently present, so I'll just create one
container and if you do a Docker.
PS So this is the container of Nginx which is currently running now due to some reason, let's say our
Docker daemon got restarted, so let me restart it.
Alright, so the Docker daemon got restarted.
Now there can be various other reasons.
One can be the server itself got restarted or second reason might be that the Docker daemon got killed
due to some memory issue or various other factors as well.
So now if I do a docker, PS you see the Docker container did not automatically start.
So if you do a Docker PS hyphen A the Docker container is in the exit state, so now I'll have to manually
start this Docker container.
All right.
So although for testing purposes this might look fine, but when you run this in production and in production
due to patching activity, restart of server happens quite a lot.
So you want that your containers of production should automatically start when the server restarts.
So it is very important that we specify a appropriate Docker restart policy for our Docker containers.
Now the restart policy, basically there are four flags that we can offer over here.
One is no, that basically means that do not automatically restart the container and if you do not specify
the hyphen hyphen restart flag, this is considered as a default one because till the time whenever
we run the Docker run command, we never specify the restart flag.
And this is the reason why this no was considered as a default one.
Now the second one is on failure, which basically means that restart the container if it exits due
to an error which manifests as a non-zero exit code.
Third one, which is pretty important, and this is the one which is used in all the production, is
unless stopped.
So unless stopped basically means that restart the container, unless it is explicitly stopped or Docker
itself is stopped or restarted.
And the last one is always that basically means that always restart the container if it stops.
So unless stop is something that we are interested in.
So let's look into how we can specify this specific flag and what exactly this does.
So what we'll do is we'll run the same Docker container run command.
However, this time we'll have to specify the restart flag and I'll specify unless stopped.
All right, so now if I do a Docker, PS, this is the container which got started and it got started
with a restart policy of unless stopped.
So now let's go ahead and restart our Docker container and after restart, if I do a docker.
PS you see that my container automatically got started.
So anytime when the Docker daemon gets restarted or anytime when your server itself gets restarted,
you can ensure that your Docker containers will automatically get started.
So this is the high level overview about the restart policies in Docker.
Make sure that any time you create a Docker container in production, make sure you put the restart
of unless stop.
I do remember that in one of the organizations that I was working with, there was one system admin
guy like he was learning Docker and he created his application in Docker and he pushed it to production.
And during the monthly life cycle of patch management, after the server was restarted, his container
never came up and the monitoring team were after him saying that the Docker container is stopped at
the middle of the night when the patching was completed.
So then he had to start the Docker container manually and then he realized that there was something
called as restart policies.
So anyways, he could have improved upon that if he would had gone through this course anyways.
I'm just kidding.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Removing Docker Container Images ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how we can remove the unnecessary containers that we might
be launching during the testing phase.
So let's say that this is one of the container image that we want to remove.
So the first thing that you should be doing is to run the Docker stop command and specify the container
name.
I'll say my Nginx.
Now once you have done that, you can call the Docker RM command and specify the name of the container
image.
So this will go ahead and delete the container.
However, if you try to remove a running container, let's try.
I can do a docker.
RM Inspiring.
Here you see it.
Basically it is giving you an error response saying that you cannot really remove a running container.
However, you can specify the hyphen f for force in order to do that.
But anyways, the best practice is stop the container before you go ahead and remove it from your system.

--- Disk Usage Metrics for Docker Components ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will look into how we can monitor for disk usage on the host, which is
running Docker containers.
Now, typically whenever you're using containers for production environment, you have to know on how
you can analyze the disk usage associated with the containers, because many a times what happens is
that one container or two containers, they consume a lot of amount of disk and due to that, other
containers or other applications on the host are not able to run very effectively.
So let's look into how we can monitor for disk usage.
So this is my Linux box and let me run df hyphen h command.
So df hyphen h command is specifically for Linux and here if you see it is basically telling me that
there is one hard disk which is associated.
So that name is dev hyphen one.
The size of the disk is 25 GB the used is 2.4 GB, the available is 23 GB and the utilization in terms
of percentage is 10%.
So although this gives a good amount of information but it does not really tell the disk usage specific
to Docker components.
So if you want to have a component level disk matrix, then you can run the Docker system DF command.
So now if you see there are various types, one is images, containers, local volumes and build cache
and the Docker system DF command will give you the utilization related to all of these four types.
So here you see the components in which you have the type of image it is consuming, the highest space,
which is 308 MB.
The container is not really utilizing any space because primarily there are no containers which are
running.
You can verify over here.
You also do not have any volumes, nor do you have any build cache.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's create a new container.
So I'll say Docker container run, let's call it as BusyBox and I'll create from the BusyBox image.
All right, So now if you do a Docker, PS, you will see that there is one container which is up and
running.
So let's quickly connect to the container.
So I'll say BusyBox SSH, and let's run a command.
So basically let's create a file of size 500 MB.
So I'll say d d input, I'll say dev zero output, I'll say big file dot txt I'll say of one MB and
count is 500.
All right.
So this has basically created a file called as big file dot txt of size 500 MB.
And if you want to verify, you will see that you have a big file dot txt and the size is 500 mb.
So let's come out of this and let's run the same command Docker system.
DF.
And now if you see within the containers also you will have the size associated with it.
Now if you want to go in detail because it might happen that there are ten containers which are running
and you want to see which specific container is consuming the highest amount of disk.
So that is also possible.
You can say Docker system DF hyphen V.
So now it will give you a per component level size.
So here you see, you are seeing that there is a nginx image.
The size of that image is 109 MB.
You have a ubuntu image, the size is 88 MB and so on.
Now also within the container space usage, it is showing that you have a BusyBox container with the
size of 524 mb.
So the DF hyphen v gives you a per component level disk usage.
So this command really helps you have a great insights into which container or which image or which
volume is taking the maximum disk utilization.
So that's the high level overview about how you can check the disk usage specific for the Docker components.
I hope this video has been informative for you and look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Automatically Delete Container on Exit ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we look into how we can automatically remove a Docker container when it exits.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly create a new container.
I'll say Docker container run.
Let's give it a name.
I'll call it as test container.
Now I'll launch it from the BusyBox image and we'll specify a command line, say ping ten times to google.com.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that there is one container which is currently
running and if you do a docker logs on test container, you see that it is pinging.
Now after pinging ten times, this container will exit.
So you see the container is no longer running.
And if I do a Docker PS hyphen A, this container is in the exited stage.
Now, many times what happens is that containers are created with a specific job.
Now, once that job completes, then there is no use of that specific container.
So what you would like is after the job is completed, you want the container to automatically be deleted.
You don't really want to be within the exited stage because after some amount of time it will unnecessarily
take a lot of amount of storage.
So in such cases you can specify the hyphen hyphen option.
So let me quickly show you on what exactly this option means.
So when you do a Docker container run, let's do a hyphen hyphen help here.
And there are a lot of options.
Instead, if you want to quickly do it, you can do a grep on.
So here you see it basically says that automatically remove the container when it exits.
So this is what the hyphen hyphen option is all about.
So now let's run the same command.
I'll change the name to zero one.
So that name conflict does not happen.
Oops, we had to specify hyphen hyphen.
All right.
Now if I do a docker ps the container is running as expected and if we do a docker logs on container
zero one, it will again ping for 10s.
Now, after it was able to ping for ten times to a destination target, you can go ahead and do a docker.
PS The container is no longer running and if you do a Docker PS hyphen A, you will see that the test
container zero one is automatically deleted.
So hyphen hyphen option is a great option that you can supply specifically if you are running some jobs
at night and you don't really want the container to be present after the job is completed.
So that's the high level overview.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Working with Docker Images ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing the basics about the Docker images.
We'll also have a demo about how exactly this Docker images are built from scratch.
Now, before we start, there are a few important pointers that we need to remember.
First is that every Docker container is based on a specific image.
Now, till now we have been using certain ready made images which are available in Docker Hub, which
have been created by some individual contributors or even the organizations.
So now as we progress towards learning Docker in depth, it is essential that we know on how we can
go ahead and create our own custom images.
Now a Docker basically can build images automatically by reading instructions from a file called as
Docker file.
Now a Docker file is basically a text document that contains all the commands A user should call on
the command line to assemble an image.
Now we'll look into the Docker file in detail, but do remember that in order to build an image, you
need to have a Docker file.
So this Docker file basically contains all the instructions which are necessary to create an image.
So let's say for example, you have an image for Nginx, so you will need the Nginx package to be installed
and all the relevant dependencies.
So all of those things you will be writing in a Docker file.
Now after you have written all the instructions, you perform the Docker build and after the Docker
build command you will have the Docker image.
So this Docker image is something that you can put to the public repositories like Docker Hub.
You can even put it to various private repositories like ECR, which can later be used by your organization
or even by the people across the Internet.
So let me quickly show you how exactly this specific process looks like.
So within my CLI, I'm in a directory called as Docker image.
And within this directory I have a file called as Docker file.
Now if I quickly open the Docker file, basically these are all the instructions which I have written
in the Docker file and when I do a Docker build, Docker will basically read all of these instructions
and it will perform all the operations accordingly.
So here the instructions are pretty simple.
So basically you are using a Ubuntu image, you are running the get command, then you are installing
the nginx and then you are starting the nginx.
All right, so we'll be discussing on what exactly each one of these means.
But from the high level overview it is very easy to understand that run basically means that it will
run this specific command.
Then CMD is basically for command.
If you want to run a specific command, we'll be discussing again these things in detail, but I hope
you at a high level overview, you know what this dockerfile does.
All right.
So once I have this Docker file, what I need to do is I have to do the Docker build.
Now, after the Docker build has been completed, we will get a Docker image.
So in order to do a Docker build, I'll say Docker build and I'll specify the current directory.
So if you see here it is basically reading the instructions over here first is from Ubuntu, then it
is basically running the apt get update and you see all of these output that you see over here.
This is the output when you run the apt get update command.
So after app.get has been completed then you have the command of apt get install nginx where all of
the nginx packages are being installed.
And then you have the fourth command which is the Nginx and that is being run.
Now.
When I do an LS here you will not see the image within the directory.
In fact the image you will be see within the local.
So if you see over here in the Docker images, this is the image which has been created.
The size is 172 MB So now if I create a new Docker container from this image, let's try it out.
So I'll say Docker container run, I'll say hyphen D, let's put a port mapping of 8080 and I'll specify
the image ID over here.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that there is one container which got started
and this container is started from our custom image that we have created.
So in order to verify if things are working correctly or not, we already know that within our host
it is listening on Port 80 because while creating the Docker container we had specified the port mapping.
So the easiest way if you just do a curl 127001 you should see the welcome to Nginx page and even from
the browser if you want to verify, you should see the Welcome to Nginx page.
So with this I hope at a high level overview you got an idea on how exactly the images are built.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
Now, this video was more focused on giving you a demo towards how the container images are built in
the upcoming video, we'll be discussing in detail related to the Docker file and various other aspects
related to it.
So I'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Dockerfile ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about dockerfile.
Now, during the video of working with Docker images, we already discussed that the high level overview
on what Dockerfile is.
So basically a Dockerfile is a text document which contains all the commands which are required to build
a Docker image.
So on the left hand side you have a Dockerfile which will have list of commands here.
Then you make use of Docker build and the output of the Docker build is the Docker image here.
Now coming to the format of the Dockerfile.
Now the format of the Dockerfile is something similar to the syntax that we see over here where the
comment part that you might want to add, you need to have a hash at the start of the line and you can
put your comment over here and then you have the instruction and then you have the arguments which are
associated with the instructions.
Now, one important part to remember is that the Dockerfile must start with a from instruction from
basically means that from which base image you want to start creating your image from.
So let's say that you want to have a nginx container.
So the first thing that you want to define is the from.
So your container can be from the base image of Ubuntu or it can be from the base image of CentOS or
it can even be from the base image of Alpine.
So from which base image you want to start creating your image from must be defined in your dockerfile.
Now this instruction is basically the list of various commands that the Dockerfile supports.
So it does supports a lot of commands so it can be from run CMD label expose.
You have env you have ad copy entrypoint volume.
ET cetera.
So there are quite a lot of them and depending upon the use case and requirement that you have, you
might use one of them, you might not use one of them.
All right.
But from something that you will be using in all of your Docker files.
So nothing is better than practical.
So we'll be starting the practical session.
So for our practical, we have a simple use case.
The use case is that you need to create a custom nginx docker image.
All right, so let's look into the what use case states that we want to create a custom nginx image
from which all the containers within the organization will be launched.
Now the base container image should have a custom index.html file which states welcome to base nginx
container image from cablelabs.
So this is the requirement.
So let's do one thing.
Let's first do this thing manually and once we understand what are the steps which are required to have
this configuration, then we'll automate it with the dockerfile.
So I'm in my CLI, so let's go ahead and launch a new container.
We'll be launching it from the Ubuntu image.
So I'll say Docker container run, I'll specify the port of 80 to the 80 within the container.
Let me also specify the t flag.
I'll say the name as my nginx and I'll be launching this from the ubuntu image.
So now if I do a docker ps you should see that I have one container which is up and running.
So let's connect inside this container with docker container exec i.
I specify my nginx and the command would be bash.
Great.
So if I want to have the nginx installed within the ubuntu, then the first thing that I need to do
is I have to run the apt get update command.
All right.
So the first command is apt get update.
So let's do one thing.
I'll also just write down the commands that we are doing manually so that we'll come to know when we
convert them to the dockerfile instructions.
Great.
So once we have done that, the next thing that we need to do is we have to type apt, get install nginx.
We'll also specify hyphen y so that this can be a automated installation.
So this is going ahead and installing the Nginx package for us.
All right.
So it has installed the nginx package.
So let me say apt get install nginx.
I'll specify the hyphen y as well.
Now once the nginx is installed, if we quickly verify let's do a init the nginx status.
Currently the nginx is not running.
Now before we start the nginx, if you look into our requirement, the requirement says that the index
dot HTML file should be welcomed to base nginx container from labs.
So it's like once the nginx has started and once someone puts the IP address of the nginx container
within the browser, he should be presented with this specific message.
Now before we go ahead and look into it, let's look into where exactly the Nginx is storing its default
file.
It should mostly be in dub HTML.
And if I do a look over here, there is a file called as index dot nginx hyphen db dot HTML.
So let's open this up.
I'll do a cat here.
And this has basically the HTML file.
So let's do one thing.
Let me put the complete path over here.
So the path is war dub dub dub HTML index, dot nginx hyphen db dot HTML.
So I'll copy the entire path.
And I'll paste the path over here.
All right.
So now let's go ahead and add the following lines.
So I'll copy the line from my PPT.
And I'll paste it over here and I'll put it to index dot nginx hyphen db dot HTML.
All right.
So if you quickly open this up, this has a line which is present.
Once you have done that, let's go ahead and start the nginx.
So this will basically run it in the foreground.
So let's quickly verify if our nginx is working as expected.
So from my ignito mode, I'll specify the IP address of my server and as expected, we are getting a
perfect welcome to base nginx container from.
So this is what we were expecting.
Great.
So these are the three major commands that we have run.
So what we'll do is we'll convert it to a Docker file.
So let's come out of the Docker container.
I'll press Ctrl C and I'll press Ctrl D.
So now let me go to root and I'll create a directory called as Demo and I'll go inside the directory.
All right.
And within that I'll create a file called as Docker file.
Now, as we know, the first thing that we have to put is the from instruction.
So I'll say from ubuntu.
So you can even specify Amazon Linux or any other base image that you might want to start from.
Now the next thing that we need to do is we have to run the apt get update command so that can be done
from the instruction call as run.
So I'll say run apt, get update and after that you need to run one more command.
I'll say apt get install nginx.
All right.
So at this specific amount of time our nginx is installed.
So now what we want is we want to have a custom file which is index dot nginx hyphen db dot HTML.
So let me just copy this up and I'll come out of this file, I'll save it.
And within this directory let's go ahead and create the file with the same name.
And within this file I'll basically specify our custom message.
I'll go ahead and I'll save it.
All right, so let's go back to the Docker file.
Now, basically what we want is we want this file to be copied inside the Docker container on a specific
path so that specific operation can be achieved with the instruction of copy.
So let's go a bit down.
I'll say copy.
I'll specify the file which is present in my current directory where the Docker file is present.
And then we also have to specify to which path this specific file should be copied to.
So in my case the path would be var dub dub dub HTML.
So I'll copy the path.
Great.
So our path is also copied now.
And now one last instruction that is very important is basically the default container command.
Now, if you had seen our video of default container Command, that is the container Command, which
automatically gets run when a container starts or a container restarts.
So in our case, we had run this specific command to start the Nginx.
So basically we have to use this command as a default container command so we can specify that with
CMD and I'll directly copy and paste this specific command.
So whenever someone starts like someone does a Docker run on the image which is created from this specific
instruction, automatically this specific container command would get executed and it can also be overridden
during the Docker run operation by the user.
So that's about our simple Docker file.
Let's go ahead and save it.
So now if I quickly do an LS hyphen L, there are two files.
One is the Docker file and second is index dot nginx hyphen dot HTML.
So now we can go ahead and build it with the command of Docker build and I'll specify dot, which basically
means the current path.
So if you look into the step one.
So here the step one is from ubuntu.
So basically this would be the ubuntu base image that would be pulled.
Once you have the ubuntu image then the apt get update command would be executed and after that is done
then you have the apt get install y nginx which gets executed.
So all of these output is basically of installation of nginx package and its related dependencies.
And then you come a bit down.
Then you see you have a copy instruction.
Basically it is copying this specific file which is present in my current directory to var, dub dub
dub HTML and then you have the cmd of nginx hyphen daemon of.
All right.
So now if I quickly do a docker images, this is the image which got built.
So if you basically look into the output of the Docker build command, it will say that successfully
build a image and this is the image ID and same can be identified over here.
All right, So now let's go ahead and start the container from that image.
In fact, I'll do a Docker image so that we can copy paste the image ID.
So let's do Docker container Run.
Hyphen D Let's associate with the different port.
I'll say 8001 to the container port of 80.
I'll give it the name of my custom engine X and I'll specify the image ID over here.
All right.
So now if you do a docker, PS, you should see that you have a my custom nginx image which is up and
running.
So if you quickly do a curl on 127001 on port 8001, you should see that it states that welcome to base
nginx container image from KB Labs.
So with this I hope you have started to understand on how exactly the Docker images can be built.
Now, the Docker file contains a lot of instructions.
And again, it really depends on use cases and requirements based on which you will be using one of
them.
But at a high level overview, I hope you understood what the Docker instruction commands are all about.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Dockerfile ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- COPY vs ADD Instructions ---

Hey, Aaron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about the difference between the copy versus add instructions
in dockerfile.
So it is important for you to understand the difference because in exams you might get question related
to which one you should use for a specific use case.
So let's go ahead and have a quick demo post which will go ahead and understand more about this.
So I'm in my CLI and there are three files which are created here.
One is add dot txt, second is copy dot txt and third is the dockerfile.
So let's quickly open up the dockerfile and see the contents.
Now this is a very simple dockerfile So in the first instruction we have a from instruction.
So this will basically create an image from BusyBox.
Then we have a copy instruction here which would copy the file called as copy dot txt to the temp directory.
You have add instruction which would add the file called as add dot txt to the temp directory and you
have the cmd instruction which basically runs the shell.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly build this specific image.
So I'll say as Demo BusyBox.
Great.
So our image is built.
So if you can quickly do a Docker images, you will see that you have one image which is present over
here.
So we can quickly create a new container from this specific image.
I'll call it as Demo BusyBox and we can launch it from the BusyBox image.
Great.
So basically, before we go ahead and connect to the container, let's understand this Docker file.
Now, in the first instruction, if you see it, is basically copying a file called as copy dot txt.
So we have the copy dot txt file here and it is putting it inside the temp directory.
In the next instruction we are adding a file called as add dot txt.
We also have add dot txt in the same directory and we are moving it to the temp.
So in the container that we have created both copy dot txt here and the add dot txt here should be within
the temp directory.
So let's quickly find it out.
So I'll do a docker ps to verify if everything is running and yes it is.
So let's connect to the container.
Now, if you go to the temp directory here and if you do an ls hyphen L, you will see both the files
added dot txt and copy dot txt which are part of the temp directory inside the container.
Now in exams you might get quiz related to the difference between add and copy and which one you should
use for a specific use case.
So with the basic understanding set, let's go ahead and understand about each one of them.
Now the copy instruction and the Add instruction are basically serving a similar purpose.
Now both of them allows you to copy files from a specific location into a Docker image.
Now the copy basically takes in a source and the destination.
So basically, whatever file that you might have in the source, the copy will copy that specific file
in a specific source.
So source can be a local file or a directory and it will copy that file inside the container image.
So that is what copy does.
Now add also does a similar thing, which copy instruction does, but it supports two other kind of
sources.
So the first one is that Add will allow you to make use of URL instead of local file or directory.
Now copy can only copy a file which is present locally or within a specific directory.
Now Add can also do that, but in addition to that it can also fetch the file from the URL and it can
move it to a specific container directory.
Now the second important aspect of the Add command is that it can allow you to extract a tar file from
the source directly into the destination.
So if you have a compressed file within your source, then if you make use of Add instruction, add
instruction will decompress the file and it will store the contents of the decompressed file into the
destination.
Now, do remember that although you can make use of add instruction to fetch the package from the remote
URL, making use of that is strongly discouraged.
Instead of that, you should make use of curl or wget instead.
So if you see over here.
So in this case we are basically adding so you have a add instruction which copies this file.
So this is a compressed file and it stores the files inside the user C things directory.
Now after it has done that, you are making use of the run instruction to decompress the specific contents
of the compressed file.
And then you are again you have a run instruction which does the building part.
So if you are aware about the layering, then this will create three layers within the image.
Now instead of that, so what Docker says is that you should avoid this kind of a scenario because this
will add multiple layers to the image which will increase the size.
So instead of that, you can make use of curl and you can make use of the and an instruction over here.
So if you basically make use of the and an instruction not only it will help you have the lower layers
but it will also help you have the lower size of the image.
So this is one part to remember.
Now, the copy instruction here.
So whenever you have a local file which is currently present within your host and you want to copy that
file inside a container image, then you can make use of copy, avoid using Add there.
Now if you have a compressed file within your host and you want to decompress it and send it inside
the container image, in that cases you can make use of Add.
So let's quickly look into one of the supported sources of Add.
So let's do one thing.
I'll come out of the container and I'll create a file called as compress dot txt and let's go ahead
and compress this specific file.
All right, so now if you do ls hyphen l you will see that we have a compressed file which is present
over here.
Now let's change our Docker instruction here where I'll add one more add instruction.
I'll say compress dot tar dot GZ and I'll put it to TMP.
Now let's go ahead and build the image.
So I'll say Docker build, I'll say Demo BusyBox zero two and I'll build it from the Dockerfile.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker container run, I'll say the name of Demo BusyBox zero two and I'll launch
it from the demo BusyBox zero two Image.
Alright, so now if you do a docker, PS you should see a container with a name of Demo BusyBox.
So let's go ahead and connect to the demo BusyBox container.
Oops.
Now, if you look into the temp directory here, you will see you will see a compressed dot txt file.
Now basically what Add instruction did was it took this file, it uncompressed it so it performed the
decompression on this specific file and whatever decompressed files which were present here, it moved
it inside the container.
So that is what Add is specifically used for.
So simple and short.
Let's say that you want to move a file like add dot txt or copy dot txt to the image.
You can avoid using the Add command.
You should make use of the copy command in case you have a compressed file and you want to move the
contents of this compressed file inside the container you can make use of Add.
Now Add also has the capability to fetch files from the remote URL and that is something that you should
avoid and instead you can make use of curl or wget.
So that's about it for the difference between the copy and add instructions in dockerfile.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- EXPOSE Instruction ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video will be discussing about the expose instruction in Docker file.
Now the expose instruction, it informs Docker that a container listens on a specified network port
at a runtime.
So let's say that you have a Docker image and the service or the application within that Docker image
is listening on port number 5000.
So how will a individual who is running the Docker container know that a service is listening on Port
5000 because the service can listen on 8000, 9000 or any ephemeral port.
So the expose instruction precisely informs on that aspect.
Now, as we are discussing, the primary aim of expose instruction is not actually to publish the port,
but to inform on which port a specific application or a specific service is running.
So if you want to actually publish a port at a Docker level, then you will have to use the hyphen P
option.
So the third point, as it states that this expose instruction, it functions as type of a documentation
between the person who builds the image and the person who runs the container about which port are intended
to be published.
Now, generally what happens is that there are hundreds of images within the Docker hub.
Now a specific image as we are discussing it, can listen the service or the application inside that
container can listen on any ephemeral port.
So how will a person who is running that container know on which port that application is listening
to?
So anyone who builds their own image, they inform with the help of expose instruction that a specific
service or the application within the container image is going to listen on a specific port.
So let's better understand this with a use case diagram here where you have a service container on the
right hand side and when you perform a curl on the domain followed by the port, then this service container
basically returns a data block.
Now, you don't really know on which port this service container is listening to, so it might be listening
to 5000.
It might be listening to 5001, 5002, etcetera.
So unless and until, you know on which port this service container is listening to, it becomes difficult
to publish that port.
So that is where the expose instruction comes into the picture.
So when you look into the Docker file, you have apt get install service.
So this is a service which listens on a specific port and then you have a expose instruction with 9324.
So now what will happen is the image which gets built from this Docker file, from the image, a person
who is going to run it can identify that this specific service is going to listen on 9324 and he can
publish the port accordingly.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into practical and understand more on what this means.
Now I'm in my Linux server.
Let's go ahead and run a container, let's call it as Nginx and we'll launch it from the Nginx image.
All right.
Now when you do a Docker, PS, this is the container.
Now within this port section over here, you will see it is showing 80 TCP.
So that basically means that this enginex daemon which is running inside this container, it is listening
on the port of 80 at a TCP level.
Now remember that this information here does not come from the container by itself.
So let's say this Nginx can run even on port 9000.
So that does not really mean that this port will be updated accordingly.
In fact, this information is coming from the expose instruction which the image creator had added within
the Docker file.
So when you do a Docker inspect on this Nginx container, if you go a bit up here, you'll see within
the exposed port you have 80 slash TCP.
So this is the way in which the image creator has informed that the service which is going to run within
the container is going to listen on Port 80 TCP and anyone who wants to run this container can go ahead
and publish that port.
So something like you can do a Docker run, let's call it as Nginx to you can publish the port, something
similar to this.
And let's specify the nginx image.
Oops, we made a small typo.
Let's specify hyphen hyphen name.
All right, so now when you do a Docker, PS now what you will see is that any traffic which is coming
on the host port of 80 will automatically be forwarded to the container port of 80.
So in this case when we made use of hyphen P So here we are saying that any request which comes to the
host port, the port of this server on 80 will be forwarded to the port 80 of the Nginx container.
So from this instruction, from this expose instruction, it was easy to find this second part.
However, there can be a lot of applications which might listen on port 5000.
So then this part will change accordingly as well.
So let's look into that as well.
Now I have a custom Docker file over here and if you see this Docker file, this is basically based
on Nginx.
And this dockerfile is basically having a expose instruction on 9080.
So that basically means that this engine, based on which this image is being created, this Nginx,
is going to listen on port 9080.
So let's go ahead and create a container based on this.
So let's quickly do a docker images.
I'll grep for my lab.
So this is the specific image in which the Nginx is listening on a different port.
So let's go ahead and create a container, let's call it as custom Nginx and we'll launch it from our
custom nginx image.
Now when you do a Docker PS over here, so this is the container and within the container now you see
it says that the ports which are exposed, it is 80 and 9080.
So these are basically coming from the expose instruction.
So when you do a Docker inspect custom Nginx, if you go a bit up, you see that there are two expose
port over here.
One is 80 and second is 9080.
Now in case, if you're wondering where does the eight come from, it basically comes from the image
from which we are building this.
Now.
On top of that, we are also exposing one more port, which is 9080.
Now, the question that many times it comes is what happens if you do not expose a port?
Now, as we were discussing, if you do not expose a port, then it will be a little difficult for the
person who is going to run your application container to identify on which port your application is
actually running.
So let's also look into that scenario.
So now I have one more Docker file.
Let me quickly show you this.
And within this Docker file we are again, we are going to run Nginx, but this time we are not going
to have a expose instruction at all.
So let's look into how that would look like.
So let's go ahead and run one more container, let's call it as CP Labs Nginx and we'll run it from
the Nginx custom image.
All right.
Now when you do a Docker PS over here, you will see that this is the Nginx custom container.
Now within there is nothing within this port.
So now if this engine is running on an ephemeral port, let's say port number 5000.
So for the person who is pulling this image, it is very difficult to know on which port the service
within this container is running.
All right.
So if the image creator had mentioned within the expose instruction that this specific container is
running on Port 5000, then it becomes easier to do the mapping part.
All right.
So I hope you understood the importance of expose instruction As we were discussing, Expose instruction
is primarily used for the documenting part so that the person who is running the image knows on which
port a application is running so that he can publish it accordingly.
Great.
So in today's video, we look into the expose instruction in good amount of detail so that we understand
the purpose of it.
Now, before we conclude, let me quickly show you.
So this is basically the Nginx image.
And when you open up the Docker file associated with this image, you will see that if you go a bit
down, generally you see it says expose 80.
And this is the reason why when we had pulled the Nginx image within the port, the 80 had come so that
it is easier for a person who is running the container to know on which port this is running.
So that's the overview about expose instruction.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Dockerfile - HEALTHCHECK Instruction ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the health check Dockerfile instruction.
Now, the health check instruction basically allows us to tell the Docker platform on how it can test
whether our application is working as expected or not.
Now, typically whenever a Docker starts a container, it monitors the process that the container runs.
So we already know that because that process would run as a PID one.
Now if that process ends or it terminates, then the container also exits.
However, this type of check is a very basic check.
Sometimes it might happen that the process is running.
However, there are a lot of errors and it is not really responding properly.
So there is a need to have a proper health check which can verify whether the application is working
as expected or not.
So in order to do that, we make use of the health check instruction.
So let's quickly jump into the practical and understand on how exactly it might work.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly do one thing.
Let's start a new container call as BusyBox and I'll launch it from the BusyBox image.
So if we do a Docker PS here, you should see that you have one container up and running.
So let's quickly get the IP address associated with the BusyBox container and it is one 7217 0.2.
So now I also have a file which is the Docker file here.
And if you open up this Docker file, you will see that we have a instruction of from and this will
create an image from BusyBox and we have instruction of health check where we are specifying the interval,
which is five seconds and we are running a command which is ping on one 7217 0.2 So this specific command
would run at the interval of five seconds.
So basically it can monitor whether the container is up or not.
So what I'll do, let's go ahead and build this up.
So I'll call it as monitoring.
Great.
So once this is up, let's quickly verify with Docker images.
So we have the monitoring image.
Let's go ahead and start a new container from it.
Let's call it as monitor and I'll start it from the monitoring image.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that you have an additional field of health here and
the health is starting.
So then depending upon the interval that you specify, the health check would be performed accordingly.
So now if you rerun the command again, you should see that it is showing as healthy.
The reason why it is showing as healthy is because it was able to successfully ping the BusyBox container.
Now you can also find great information within the inspect.
So if you do a Docker inspect on the container name, which is monitor, let's go a bit up here.
So here you see this are basically the logs over here.
Now if you look here, it is able to successfully get the ping reply and the exit code is zero.
That means everything is working as expected.
So let me also give you an overview about exit code.
So if let's say let's let me do a ping on C one on, let's say Google.com.
All right.
So I successfully got the reply back.
Now if I do a echo status here, so the exit code is zero, that means that the execution has been done
successfully.
However, if I try to do some random name, let's do one 7270 zero dot ten.
So this IP address cannot be ping because there is nothing which is listening on this specific IP address.
So now if you do an echo status here, you see the exit code is zero.
That means something bad happened or something unexpected happened.
Now health check basically makes use of this exit code.
So if the exit code of the command is zero, then you will typically see the status as healthy.
However, if you see the status code of something like one, then it would be marked as unhealthy.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and stop the BusyBox container.
So then that would basically mean that once the BusyBox container is stopped, then the ping would fail.
Great.
So the container has been stopped.
So if you do a Docker PS now you should see that the container status is now unhealthy.
So that's about the high level.
Review of health check.
Now, if you do a Docker inspect on the container name, you will typically see if you go a bit up.
So here, if you see it, try to do a ping on one 7270 0.2.
It did not really get any reply back and the exit code status is one and this is the reason why the
health check is unhealthy.
Now there are certain parameters that you can specify before the CMD operation.
So basically this is the health check line that we had within our Docker file.
Now these are the specific parameters that you can specify.
So here you see we had specified interval is equal to five seconds.
So if you do not specify this, then the default will be taken care of.
Now for the retries here the default is three, so it would basically do three retries.
Same for the timeout, same for the start period.
So depending upon the use case that you might have, you can go ahead and play around with these type
of parameters.
So that's the high level overview about the health check instruction in Docker file.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- HEALTHCHECK Instruction Options ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the health check options.
Now, whenever you're making use of a health check instruction, there are multiple options that you
can combine it with to achieve a desired result.
So there are four important options that we need to be aware of at a high level.
Overview.
One is the interval, second is the timeout, third is the start period and fourth is the retry.
Now do note that if you do not specify all of these options while adding a health check instruction,
then the associated default values will automatically be used.
So for example, if you do not specify interval within the health check, then by default the interval
would be 30s and so on.
Now whenever you are making use of health check, do note that the commands exit status indicates the
health status of the container.
So for example, if you have the exit status of zero, that means success.
And the command did not throw any error if the possible value here is one.
So the exit status is one, then the container is not working correctly.
If it is two, which is basically for reserved and it has a description which states that do not use
the exit code.
So let's take a simple example here.
So you have a health check instruction where you have a curl on the localhost.
So in case if you have some kind of application running or if you have a web server running, then this
command will give you a result.
If not, then this command will fail.
So what this health check does, you have an interval of five minutes and the timeout of three seconds,
so it will check every five minutes whether the curl on localhost is working or not and the timeout
is three seconds.
So the results should be appearing within this specific timeout.
Now when you discuss about the health check, not only you can specify it as part of the overall dockerfile.
So if you see these are the various options that you can use as part of the Dockerfile, but you can
also make it available as part of the Docker run command.
So if you are doing a Docker run and if you want to specify the health check, that can also be done.
So what we'll be doing in today's video, we'll be using the Docker run command to explore this so that
the concept can be easily understood.
So currently within the console, let's go ahead and create a new Docker container, let's call it with
the name of temp.
Now within the health check associated with the Docker run, you see that you have a health CMD where
you have to specify the command that will be used for health check.
So let's specify health CMD and the command that will be using for health check would be http localhost
where the curl will happen.
So if there is a web server or an application that is listening on this specific localhost, then this
command would be successful.
So we'll be using the BusyBox image for our demo.
That's great.
So now if you quickly do a Docker, PS you see that our container is available and within the health,
the health is still within the starting state.
So after a hold of a few seconds, let's try once more.
So it has been up to one minute.
And if you see the health is still within the starting state.
Now, one of the question that comes is why is it taking so much amount of time for the health to be
starting?
It should either be healthy, it should either be fail.
And the answer to that is within the default options.
Now, since we have not specified any default option, the interval of health check would be 30s.
The timeout is 30s and the retry is three, so it will retry for three times in the interval of 30s
before sharing a specific result.
So now if you quickly do a docker PS you will see that it has been elapsed, the amount of default settings
and now the container is within the unhealthy state.
So now if you quickly do a docker inspect on ten container, let's go a bit here.
You will see within the health check the command is curl on the http localhost.
And within here, within the health it is showing as unhealthy.
And here the output here is curl command, not found.
So let's clear the screen and let's go ahead and stop.
The temp container will also remove the temp container and this time we'll be manually specifying the
retries as well as various things like interval.
I'll also remove the temp container here.
Great.
So this time, along with the health CMD, let's also specify various options.
So the first one is the interval option.
The interval is 30s.
Let's change it.
Let's change it to five seconds.
And in fact, this should be health interval primarily because the interval is associated with the Docker
file.
And this is the Docker run that we are using.
So since the interval is five seconds and the retries again, since we have not specified the retry,
it will have the default of three.
So if you do a Docker PS now you will see the health is still within the starting state.
And if you do a Docker PS again, again you will see the health immediately went to the unhealthy state.
So here the default retries is three.
So now let's try one more time.
However, this time we'll specify the retries as well.
So within the Docker run you have the health retries and the health retries, let's call it as one.
And let's call the container as temp to.
Alright, so after the health interval of five seconds, since the retry is one, you should be able
to get the health immediately.
So if you do a docker PS immediately you see it has been eight seconds only.
However, the overall health it is showing as unhealthy.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood various instruction options associated with the health
check and we also understood on if we do not specify any of these options, then the default values
will be taken and the amount of time it will take for the health check will also be increased.
Along with that, we also looked into the options associated with the health check, not only for the
Docker file.
So these are all associated with the Docker file, but even for the Docker run, you can specify this.
In fact, if you want to quickly test all of these options, you can do a Docker run since it can save
you much more amount of time when you go with the Docker file approach.
So with this, I hope you understood this command where you have a health check, you specify the interval
is equal to five minutes, the timeout is equal to three seconds within the Docker file.
Now before we conclude, there is one more important thing that I wanted to show you that whenever you
make use of curl specifically in scripts, it is advisable to also make use of the hyphen f option,
which is generally used to make it fail silently.
So this is mostly done to better enable the script to deal with the failed attempts.
So let's look into what happens without F and with f option.
So without f option, you see that whenever you do a curl on a non existent part, for example, you
get this big amount of error of 404 not found.
However, if you do a hyphen f over here immediately you get a one liner stating that 404 not found
so many times unnecessarily.
You do not really want this big HTML contents.
All you need is to see this error and you'll be able to figure out on what exactly this does.
So in fact, let me quickly show you this.
So if you do a curl on, let's say Dexter Dot Labs dot in and I'll give some random path which is not
existing and you see you got a big error over here.
However, if you make use of hyphen f option or hyphen hyphen fail option immediately you get a one
liner and this is the one liner that you are more interested in.
Now.
Along with that, you can also make use of the exit one option.
So what this will do is if this command fails, then automatically the things will exit.
So let's do one thing.
Let's change it to a single line.
And if I do a curl, you see, you get a message, something similar to this.
However, if you make use of a format, something similar to this, what will happen is if this command
will fail automatically, things will exit and you will be logged out.
So let's run this and immediately you see you got an exit over here.
And I was logged into the container and now you have automatically exited from that specific container.
So this is where this type of format can be used.
Great.
So that's the high level overview about the health check options.

--- Document - HealtCheck Document Resource ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Dockerfile - ENTRYPOINT Instruction ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the entry point instruction in Dockerfile.
Now, the best use of the Entrypoint instruction is to set the images main command.
Now, one important part to remember is because you can even set the main command with CMD.
So whenever a image is launched, whatever things that you specify with CMD will run.
Now the problem with CMD is that the command can be overridden now for entry point.
It does not really allow you to override the command and for the exam perspective as well.
It is important for us to understand the distinction between the CMD and Entrypoint.
So let's quickly jump into practical and understand the difference between both of them.
So I'm in my CLI and if I do an LS, we have a dockerfile here.
Now.
This is a very simple dockerfile and it contains only two instructions.
First is from BusyBox and then is command.
So let's go ahead and build this up.
So I'll say this as base zero one.
All right, so now if we do a Docker container run, I'll call it as base zero one and I'll launch it
from the base zero one image.
Now, whenever the container starts, you will see automatically the command, which is the switch is
being connected to.
So this is basically the shell.
Now, this specific whatever command operative that you specify, let me quickly show you.
So whatever operative that you specify over here can be overridden.
So in if I can show you that quickly.
So here if you can quickly say ping C ten Google.com.
Oops.
Let me just change the name to base zero two.
And now if you do a Docker, PS, you see now the command is ping C and Google.com.
So after ten times the container would exit because this specific command would have completed the execution.
So now if you do a Docker, PS, you see the container has exited.
Now this is as far as the CMD instruction is concerned and this is the reason why we were discussing
that.
Whatever thing that you might specify with the help of CMD can be overridden during the runtime.
So now let's look into the entry point.
Now before we do the entry point, let me just comment the CMD out and let's put entry point here and
I'll say bin and you can specify the binary.
So let me specify ping here and I'll save it once.
Then let's go ahead and build this image.
I'll call this at base zero two and I'll put a dot.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker container run, let's give it a name of base zero two.
I'll launch it from the base zero two image.
Now, if you try to do a search, what exactly will happen is the Docker will basically try to execute
something like Bing ping search.
So the bing bing command.
So this binary cannot be overridden.
So if you want to see that, so this binary that we have specified over here, it cannot be overridden
here, it can be appended.
So if you try to do something like say C 20 Google.com.
All right, So now what will happen here is that in fact, let me give it a new name.
So now what will happen is you see it appended the C 20 google.com here.
However, the main binary remains the same, which is bin slash ping.
So this specific binary cannot be overridden.
You can append the things that you would interested in.
So that's the high level overview about the entry point.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Dockerfile - WORKDIR Instruction ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about the Working Directory instruction of Dockerfile.
Now the Workdir instruction sets the working directory for any run CMD Entrypoint copy and add instructions
that follow it within the dockerfile.
Now this can be better explained with this diagram where you have a container A and within the container
A there are two folders that are available now.
Any instructions like run that you have and if you want to use that instruction in a specific folder,
then you can make use of the workdir.
So now once you have created Workdir folder one, what will happen is any subsequent instructions that
is specified after the workdir will automatically be associated with the folder one.
And that is the basic concept.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's quickly jump into the practical so that this can be better explained.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly create our Docker file and this time the Dockerfile would be based on the BusyBox image.
What we'll do is we'll quickly create a new folder under the root directory.
The name of the folder would be demo and let's set the Workdir to root demo.
Along with that, let's go ahead and create a file called as file 01. txt and we'll have a CMD instruction
which goes ahead and loads the bash.
Great.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and build our Docker file.
So the name I'll say Workdir hyphen demo.
Great.
So our image is created.
The name of the image is Workdir Hyphen demo.
So let's quickly go ahead and create a container out of it.
The name again, we'll keep it as same, which is Workdir hyphen demo and it will be based on Workdir
hyphen demo image and we want to load a shell.
So now if you do a docker PS we have one container that is running.
Now if you connect to this container, let's try it out.
You see, you automatically got connected to the demo directory.
So now if you do a PWD, we are automatically inside the root demo directory where our workdir was set.
Along with that, if you do an LS over here, you will see that you have the file 01. txt that is available.
Great.
So let's quickly open up the Docker file once again to understand how this works.
So if you look into the definition, it states that the Workdir instruction sets the working directory
for any run cmd Entrypoint copy and add instruction that follows it within the dockerfile.
So at this specific stage we had set the work day to root demo.
So any instruction that are following that these instruction would run under this specific directory.
So the touch command file 01. txt will run under this specific directory and even the cmd whenever we
connect to the container will automatically connect inside this specific folder which is associated
with the workdir.
Great.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood this specific instruction.
Now there is one more important point that we need to remember.
So the pointer states that the Workdir instruction can be used at multiple times in a dockerfile.
So for example, let's say that there are three workdir instructions you have worked in slash a workdir
B Workdir C So now when you run the PWD instruction, which basically shows you the present working
directory, the output would be slash A slash B slash C.
So this is the combined output of all the work that have been specified.
So let's quickly also look into it.
So let's quickly open up the Docker file here and let's specify few more instructions.
So I'll say work context one and Workdir Context two.
All right.
And before we do that, we have to also ensure that the folder is created.
So let's say context one, Context two.
So here we are basically creating the folder.
Then we have multiple workdir instruction and now the file 01. txt would be basically created under
root demo context one context two followed by file 01. txt.
So let's quickly try it out.
So I'll save this.
So let's quickly do a docker build.
So I'll say workdir demo zero to.
Great.
So let's quickly create a new container out of it.
So name I'll say Workday demo zero two and we'll be launching it from the same image.
So now we have our second container that is running.
Let's quickly go ahead and connect to it.
And now, if you will see, we are automatically associated in the demo context one, context two.
And if you do a p.w.d., it is root demo context one, context two.
And if you do ls, you should see that we have a file called as file 01. txt that is available.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood the importance of the Working Directory instruction.
Again, this specific second slide that we are discussing, this is very important for you to remember,
so that's the high level overview about today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - WORKDIR Code ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Dockerfile - ENV Instruction ---

Hey, Ryan.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about the Env instruction in Dockerfile.
Now the Env instruction sets the environment variable, which is in the form of key and value pair.
So this can be better explained with this example snippet where you have a env.
The key is nginx and the value is 1.2 and then you are using a run instruction which basically does
a curl on the URL.
Now within the URL here you see you have web hyphen dollar nginx dot tar dot x.
So here what would happen is that the value that is associated with the nginx key will be automatically
replaced over here.
And the same thing over here again you are making use of a variable.
So the enginex variable will be replaced by whatever value that you specify within the Env instruction.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the demo so that this can be better understood.
So going back to the CLI, let's quickly create a new Dockerfile instruction.
We'll be using the BusyBox image and let's have a Env where we'll say Nginx as 1.2.
Now let's also create a run instruction where we'll go ahead and create a file.
The name of the file would be web hyphen, the variable name of nginx dot txt.
All right.
And let's also create a cmd instruction of ssh.
Great.
So let's go ahead and save this and let's quickly do a docker build and the name would be image hyphen
env from this specific folder.
Great.
So now let's quickly create a new container from it.
So I'll call it as just env it would be from the image hyphen env image and we'll use the SSH instruction.
Great.
So now let's go ahead and connect to the container.
So if you quickly do Docker, PS we have a new container, let's quickly connect to the container.
Great.
So now here, if you see that the file that is created, the name of the file is web hyphen 1.2. txt
where 1.2 is nothing but the value which was associated with the environment variable.
So I hope you understood the basic concept.
So here within the env instruction you have a key of nginx and the value of 1.2.
So whenever you refer to this specific variable, the value associated with that variable will be used
over here.
So since we are making use of Nginx over here, the value that is associated with the Nginx key would
automatically be replaced.
Now, along with the Dockerfile, you can also set the environment variables from the CLI.
So in that case you can make use of hyphen e or hyphen hyphen env and even the env hyphen file flag
to set the simple environment variables in the container that you are running.
Or you can also make use of it to override the variables that are defined within the dockerfile of the
image that you are running.
So this can be better explained with the snippet here where you have docker run hyphen hyphen env.
Then you have the key which is var one followed by the value which is value one and so on.
All right, so let's do one thing, let's go ahead and also try it out.
So going back to the CLI, let's quickly create one more container, the name of the container, let's
call it as Env zero two and let's specify an environment variable.
The name of the variable, let's call it as user is equal to admin user.
And let's launch a BusyBox image here.
All right, So when you do a Docker, PS you have one container, let's go ahead and connect to the
container.
And now if you want to see the value associated with the environment variable of user, you have admin
user as its associated output.
Great.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood about how you can set the environment variables from
the Docker file as well as from the CLI.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - ENV Instruction Code ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Tagging Docker Images ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing at a high level overview about tagging a Docker image.
Now, if I quickly do an LS, you see I have a Docker file.
Now, if I build an image from this Docker file, what exactly happens is that if you quickly do a Docker
images, you will see that there is one image which got built.
So this is the image and same can be found.
So after the Docker file gets built, it gives you the image ID, which is C5D, So this is the image
ID, All right.
However, this specific image is not tagged.
All right.
And if you have multiple of such images with a different functions, then it is very difficult for you
to remember on what exactly this image does.
So in such cases, you can tag it in a meaningful way.
So if you look into the below images, all of those images are tagged so that it is easier for us to
identify.
Now there are two ways in which you can do that.
The first one is if you do a Docker build, you can specify the hyphen T option.
So hyphen T option is basically for tag and you can specify the tag that you want to associate with
the image.
So before we do that, let's go to Docker images and let's remove this specific image with the RMI command,
which is remove image.
All right, So once this is done, let's run the Docker build command.
I'll have to specify the tag, I'll call the tag as demo, and then I can specify version one.
All right.
So when I press enter, you see it basically says that it has built a image and this is the ID, and
also it has successfully tagged this specific image.
So if I do a Docker images now, you should see that whatever image that is being created, the name
is Demo and the tag associated is version one.
Now this is one way in which you can tag the image that you are building.
Now in case, let's say that in case you have already built an image, let's do one thing.
Let's remove the tagged image.
All right, Now let's build the image yet again.
This time we will not tag the image.
So now if you do a Docker images, you will see that this image does not really have a tag.
So in this case you can tag the specific image.
So I'll say docker tag.
Then you have to specify the image ID here and then you can specify the tag name.
Let's say I'll say demo hyphen version two.
All right.
Now if I do a Docker images, you should see that our image is now tagged in a similar way.
You can also create a tag associated with the already existing image.
So let's take an example.
So this is a ubuntu image and it is already tagged so you can have a second tag also associated with
the image.
So I can say docker tag, specify the image name that you want to tag and you can specify the new tag
name.
I'll say my ubuntu version one.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker images, you should see that there is a new tag which is created now both
of them has the same image ID So what this basically does is it creates an alias for the primary image.
So in this way it is easier for us to identify in case if you want to have a different naming conventions.
So this is the high level overview about Docker tags.
Now, Docker tags has a great importance specifically when you want to push the image into the Docker
repository.
It can be public or private.
However, we'll be discussing about that in detail in the later sections.
But for now I just wanted to give you an overview about the Docker tags.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Docker Commit ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the Docker commit command.
Now, typically whenever you launch a new container from image and specifically when you are modifying
a lot of files to achieve a specific target, it can be useful to commit that containers file changes
or settings that you make to a newer image.
Now you can easily do that.
Let's say you have a running container and you have modified a lot of files and configurations within
that running container.
So now you can commit that running container so that it forms a new image.
Now the syntax looks something similar to this where you have a Docker container commit, you have the
container ID and you have the image name that you want to associate it with.
So let's quickly look into the practical so that we understand this in a better way.
So I'm in my CLI now and if I quickly do a Docker images, you see that multiple images which are present
over here for this demo.
We are more interested in the BusyBox image typically because it is of lower size and it helps quite
a lot during the demo purposes.
So let's go ahead and create a new container from BusyBox.
So let's do a Docker run.
I'll specify the name, let's use BusyBox and it will be launched on the BusyBox image.
All right, so now if I do a Docker, PS, this is the BusyBox container which is up and running.
So now let's go ahead and connect to the container.
I'll say BusyBox.
SSH.
All right.
Because here the SSH command is something which is running.
All right, so I'm within the container.
If I quickly do an LS hyphen L, these are all the directories which are present within the container.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go to root and for our demo purposes we'll create a file, let me call it as change one dot txt.
So let's say that this is the BusyBox container.
So you modified a lot of things within this container and you want to create an image out of the modified
things that you have done on top of the container.
So that can be achieved with the help of Docker commit.
So you, you can do a Docker.
PS So let's say that you have made all the configuration changes that you intended to do and your application
is working perfectly.
So if you want to create a new image out of this, you can go ahead and do a Docker container, commit,
specify the name of the container.
In my case it is BusyBox and specify the new name that you might want to make it appear within the Docker
images list.
So let's say I'll say Docker BusyBox Hyphen modified zero one.
All right.
And now if you do a Docker images here, you will see that this is one image which is created.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's run a new container from this specific image.
I'll call it BusyBox hyphen custom, and I'll launch it from this specific modified image that we had
created.
All right, So now if you do a Docker, PS, let me just clear the screen so that it's easier for us
to see.
So now there are two containers.
This is the new container which we launched from a custom image.
So let's quickly connect to this custom image.
I'll say Docker container exec, Let's specify the image name and I'll say s.
Now, in order to verify whether the changes that we had made to the container previously before creating
the image are still present or not.
So within the root, if I do ls hyphen l you will see that change one dot txt is still present, so
I hope at a high level overview you understood what the docker commit is all about.
Now there are a few more things which I thought I'll share.
Basically when you are doing Docker commit, there are certain aspects that you will be able to modify.
Let me quickly show you.
So I'll say Docker inspect and let's take up the BusyBox image.
So within here, if you go a bit up, you have the CMD over here, you also have the env over here.
So with the commit you can modify all of these aspects.
So let's look into how we can modify.
Let's say you want to change the CMD from SSH to something like H, or if your image has bash, then
you can change it to bash as well.
So this is something that you will be able to do.
Let's look into how we can do that.
I'll say Docker container commit, you will have to specify change.
Now you have to specify the instruction that you want to change.
A container can have multiple instruction.
So let's say we want to change the instruction of CMD and we want to change from SSH to H.
All right.
And now you have to specify the container ID, let's say.
Or you can specify the container name also.
That is also fine.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker images, you will see that there is one image which got created.
So let's run the Docker run command again.
I'll say Docker run d t, I'll say BusyBox hyphen modified zero two and I'll specify the new image ID
over here.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker, PS, you will see that there is a new container which has been launched
and this container has the command of assets.
So basically Docker commit not only allows you to commit a image which has a different files or configurations
that you have made inside the container, you can also change various aspects like command and V, etcetera.
So coming back to the PowerPoint presentation, we looked into what Docker commit is at the high level
overview.
We also discussed on what the change option allows us to do.
Now do remember that there are supported Dockerfile instructions for change so you can change CMD you
can change entrypoint the env expose.
Then you have label on build user volume and workdir.
So along with that, one important part to remember is that whenever you go ahead and commit a container,
the process will be paused while the image is being committed.
There is a way in which you can override this specific aspect, but do remember that the process does
get paused while you are committing.
So this is the high level overview about the Docker commit command.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Layers of Docker Image ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the layers of Docker image.
Now a Docker image is built up from a series of layers.
Now each layer represents an instruction in the images Docker file.
Now this is very important to understand.
So typically, if you look into the diagram, this diagram has multiple layers over here.
And in the second point we discussed that each layer.
So there are multiple layers that you see over here.
Now each of this layer represents an instruction in the images Docker file so this can be understood
with this.
So this is a Docker file.
And when the Docker file is created and when you build an image from this Docker file, this image consists
of multiple layers and each of these layers is corresponding to the instruction which is present here.
So when you see the first instruction here is from Ubuntu 15.4.
So then the first layer over here, the most bottom one is basically created as an output of this specific
instruction.
Then you have the copy.
So then you have the second layer over here, then you have the run, then you have the third layer
over here and similar.
Now do you remember that there can be layer of type zero bytes, so that is perfectly fine.
Now the major difference between a container and an image is the top writeable layer.
Now all the rights that you basically make to the container that adds or modifies existing data are
stored in the writeable layer.
So this is something that we already saw.
So the image that is being built from the Docker file, this image is read only.
You cannot really modify this image.
On top of this image there is this read write layer and any modification that you make if you add a
file, if you remove this file, that modification is been written to this read and write layer.
So this can be understood with this diagram as well, where there are multiple Docker containers, each
and every Docker container can share a same image.
So you have a Ubuntu image over here and there are four containers which are using this Ubuntu image.
Now this is perfectly fine because this ubuntu image over here it is read only.
You cannot really modify that and each container will have its own read write layer and any changes
that they make.
It gets stored to this specific read and write layer.
Now if you look into this type of architecture, it is really great because even if you have ten containers,
all of those ten containers can share the base image.
They don't really have to create a completely new base image.
So this not only helps us save space, but also leads to better performance.
Now, if you want to see the layers associated with a specific image, you will be able to do that with
the help of Docker History Command.
So let's quickly look into how exactly it might look like.
So I'm in my CLI, so let's do a Docker images and there are multiple images which are present now if
you want to see the layer associated with the nginx image so you can run the command Docker history
and you can say Nginx and now you can see that these are the amount of layers which are associated with
the Nginx image.
And if you know the Docker file, you will be able to understand what each of these mean.
So you have an ad, you have a CMD, you have a label, you have a Env and various others.
All right.
So the amount of layer that each image has will be different on the image to image basis.
So if you typically do the Docker history on Ubuntu, you'll see Ubuntu has around five layers over
here, right?
And if you typically do a Docker history of MySQL, you'll see MySQL has a lot of layers.
So again it really depends on which image you use and the layers would be deferred accordingly.
So let me show you some interesting examples which will allow you to have a better understanding of
the image and layers.
So this is a simple Docker file.
If you see this Docker file, there are five instructions and this five instruction will correspond
to five layers.
All right, so you have.
From Ubuntu which might form the base layer which is layer one.
Then you have the run which would be layer two.
Then you have one more run layer three.
Then you have layer four and layer five.
So let's focus on the first three instructions of the Docker file.
Now the first three instruction is from Ubuntu.
All right.
So from ubuntu will basically pull the ubuntu image.
Now this image will have its own size.
Let's assume that the size here is 90 MB.
All right then.
What we are doing is we are doing a run and we are running this specific command which is d d input
file is dev zero.
Output file is root file dot txt and bs is one and count is 100.
So this will basically create a file called as file one dot txt with the size of around 100 mb.
Same year you have one more run command.
This time it is creating a file name called as file two dot txt which will have the files file size
of around 100 MB yet again.
So let's do one thing.
Let's try it out and see on how exactly it might look like.
So I'll copy this instructions here and I'll create a new directory called as Layers.
And within this directory I'll create a file called as Docker file.
Within the Docker file, I'll basically paste the three instructions over here.
So let me go ahead and save it in case if you are not aware of, let me quickly show you.
I'll just run this command.
All right.
Let me just run this command.
And now if I quickly do a search, oops, we forgot to specify the file path.
Root file one dot txt and you see it created around 100 MB of file.
So now let's go ahead and do a docker build.
Let me call it as layer demo zero one and I'll specify the current path.
So now if you see there are three steps.
The first step is from ubuntu.
So it is basically pulling the ubuntu image.
Then you have the run here and then you have the run command once again.
So now if you do a docker images you will see that this is the image.
Now this image will have three layers so you can quickly verify, you can say Docker image history,
specify the name.
I'll say layer demo zero one.
So within here you can see that there are multiple layers.
Now do remember one thing that the Ubuntu image because here if you see over here we are basically pulling
the Ubuntu image.
Now Ubuntu image also might contain its own layers so we can quickly verify.
So if I do a docker image history on ubuntu you see ubuntu image by itself has multiple layers over
here.
Now if you are basically pulling the ubuntu image and on top of that you are adding some data.
Then the amount of layers that your image will have will be the Ubuntu image layer plus the instructions
that you are adding on top of that.
So let's run the earlier command yet again.
So if you see the total layers which are part of the ubuntu image is one, two, three, four and five.
So same thing here.
Let's say one, two, three, four and five.
So these are the layers which are associated with the Ubuntu image.
And then on top of that you added two more layers and these two more layers are basically associated
with the two run instructions which are part of your Docker file.
And together the size of all the layers are being combined and you will be able to see the total size
of your image.
All right, so I hope you understood what the layers are at the high level overview.
So let's go to one interesting example, which is the last two instructions of our Docker file.
So we already know that there are two more instructions of the Docker file.
One is remove route file two dot txt and remove route file one dot txt.
So now what we are doing here.
Let's go a bit.
Up first, we are basically creating a file which is file one dot txt file two dot txt.
So this file would be close to around 100 mb.
And then we are removing both of these files at the later stage.
All right.
Now the question is after you run the entire Docker file, what would be the size of image?
Would it be the same, which was around 297 MB or would there be a difference because here.
We are basically removing both of these files.
Just think about it, what it might be.
All right.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's add both of these commands within our Docker file and see what are the changes that it might make.
So I'll copy the two instructions and within the Docker file.
I'll add both of these instructions.
All right, so now let's run the Docker build again.
We'll call this layer two.
All right.
So our layer two image has been successfully built.
So now if you look into the size over here, you see the size is exactly as same as the layer one.
So layer one was 297, Layer two was 297 again.
Now the questions that comes generally is that since we are removing both of these files which were
created in the first and the second instruction over here, why is the size of image not getting reduced?
So this can be understood in a better way with the diagrammatic representation.
All right, So in the layer two and in the layer three, we have 100 MB files which are created from
this specific instruction.
Now in the layer four and in the layer five, we are removing both of these files, but those files
are basically let's say they are removed or they are dealing in the layer four and layer five.
The below layers are not modified.
This is very important part to understand.
So even if I remove the file one dot txt which is generated in the layer two and this specific run command
is executed in the layer four.
So even though I'm removing it, the file still exists in the layer two, although it might not in the
layer four, it might be de-linked, but the file still exists here.
And this is the reason why even if you do a hyphen f in the later layers, the file will still exist
in the older layers.
So in case if you execute these instruction in the same layer itself, then the overall size of the
image will decrease.
Let's try it out.
So let me do one thing.
Let's open up the Docker file and you can basically add and end condition here and you can specify the
hyphen f root file one dot txt.
All right.
And same here, I'll add a and end condition and I'll say file two dot txt.
So now what will happen is that in the layer two, first the file will be created and then the file
will be deleted.
Now this is happening in the same layer and in the layer three again the file will be created and again
the file will be deleted.
So this is happening within the same layer.
So ultimately this layer will have around zero bytes and the third layer will also have around zero
bytes.
Let's try it out.
So I'll save this file and let's run the Docker build again.
I'll say a tag of layer demo zero three.
All right, so now let's do a Docker images.
You see, the Docker image is 87.5 MB, which is exactly similar to that of the Ubuntu image.
And now if you quickly want to do a Docker image history, I say layer demo zero three, you will see
that we already know that the first five layers are of the Ubuntu image.
Now the next layer which is the DF is of size zero bytes and again this is of zero bytes.
So this is very important to remember the way in which you write the Docker file.
You should always include an end because otherwise if you have a simple instruction, let's say this
is just for example, let's say you have apt get install Nano, then again you have apt get install
vim.
So what this will do is that it will create multiple layers.
You can combine them together, let's say you can combine them as apt, get install vim.
So now what will happen is you will have just one layer and it is important to have as minimum layer
as possible to get your application working because it will not only help you save storage but also
have a better performance.
So this is the high level overview about the layers in a Docker image.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Managing Images with CLI ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about managing images with CLI.
Now the Docker CLI can be used to manage various aspects related to the Docker images.
Now these aspects include building, it can include removing, saving, tagging and various others.
Now as far as the exam perspective is concerned and definitely for the real world scenario as well,
you should be familiar with the Docker image child commands.
Now speaking about the child command which are available for the Docker image, there are certain child
commands which are available as far as the date of recording is concerned.
So these are the list of child commands which are available.
You have Docker image, then this is the child command which is built.
So you have Docker image build, you have Docker image history, you have Docker image, import, inspect,
load, prune.
ET cetera.
Now, if you look into the Docker Certified Associate study Guide, let's look into the domain two.
Now within the domain two, you see it basically states that the candidate should be aware about using
the CLI commands such as list, delete, prune, RMI, et cetera to manage the images.
Now, the reason why they have given et cetera over here is because there are a lot of commands which
are available and they cannot really fit all of them here.
So for the exam perspective, you should be aware at a high level overview on what these commands does,
and definitely these commands will help you extremely when you are working with the Docker deployments
within your production environments.
Now coming back to the CLI, if we do a Docker image hyphen hyphen help here, you will see that as
of now these are the commands which are available and the same commands are the ones that we were discussing
where you have the Docker image here and you have the various child commands which are available over
here.
Now one important part to remember over here is the way in which the Docker has recently started to
categorize the CLI commands.
Let's take one example.
So let's take an example of a pull over here.
So what this command does is if you say Docker image pull, you specify the appropriate image name.
So when I do this, it will pull the Splunk image from the Docker registry.
All right, so it has pulled the Docker image.
So now if I do a Docker images over here, you should see that the Splunk image is now available.
Now the same thing can be achieved here.
You do not have to mention Docker image here.
The same thing can be achieved with the help of Docker Pull command.
Now, in the earlier sections we had been using the Docker Pull command.
Now the question that comes is which one should we use and which one is recommended.
Now in terms of the recommendation, Docker recommends you to use the Docker image pull command.
So typically if you look into the documentation here you have the Docker image and these are the various
child commands which are available now Docker pull as well as Docker image pull.
Both of them will work.
However, the reason why Docker has categorized all of these commands, so any commands which pertains
related to images they have categorized under the Docker image and this is the reason why they have
added Docker image pull as well.
And this is the reason why you should ideally be using Docker image pull.
However, Docker pull will also work, but later down the line, let's say after few years, Docker
decided to deprecate the Docker pull command.
So in that case you should be aware that you also have Docker image pull.
That will work perfectly.
Now I'll give you one more example.
You have Docker image over here, so if I do a Docker image LS, it basically will give you the list
of all the images.
Now if I do a Docker images here again it will give you the same thing.
So I hope you understood.
On why Docker categorize all of the commands which are specific to image within the Docker images section
as otherwise, if you have a Docker images, if you have a Docker pull.
Now what happens here is that all of the commands which are related to managing the images, they will
be spread it out across the entire CLI section and that becomes a little confusing.
So if a user wants to know what are the commands which are related to managing the images, they can
just open up the documentation similar to this and they'll have an overview about all the commands.
So.
This is a much more systematic approach.
So this is the high level overview about managing the images with CLI.
In this video, I just wanted to give you a high level overview and also wanted to set expectations
on what is about to come.
Now certain commands like Docker image inspect, you also have commands like Docker Image Push.
They require a dedicated video and this is the reason why I have not included them in this video.
We'll be discussing about these in the upcoming videos.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Inspecting Docker Images ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about inspecting the Docker images.
Now, a Docker image can contain a lot of information.
Now some of the information includes the creation date, the command, the environment variables associated,
the architecture, the operating system, the size and various others.
Now, many times while you are deploying the Docker image, there are certain automation and that automation
requires some of these details.
So it is important for us to understand on how we can get this specific details and also how we can
filter certain specific information that we need from all of these information.
Now, a Docker image inspect command allows us to see all the information which is associated with the
Docker image.
So let's quickly jump to the CLI so that it becomes much more easier for us to understand Now a CLI
and we already have an image of Nginx which is available.
We are more interested in nginx anyways.
You can try it out in any image.
So if you do a docker image inspect I'll say nginx and I'll press enter.
And here you see there is a lot of information which the output has.
So let's go a bit up.
Great.
So this command of image inspect has given us a lot of information.
Now this information contains the ID, which is the shore value.
You have the repo tag which is associated.
So in this case it is nginx latest.
You have the creation date over here.
You have the host name, you also have the exposed port.
If you go a bit down, you can see the environment variables.
You can see the command which are associated and various others.
You have the labels, you have the stop signal and various others.
So these are the information which the Docker image inspect can show.
Now, again, this is a huge amount of information.
Now, among all of these information, you might need to know a certain aspect of it.
So let's say among entire information that you see over here, you just want to see the hostname which
is associated or you just want to see the creation date, which is associated with the image.
Now, how you can do that, let's figure it out.
Now, one of the easiest way you can typically make use of the Linux tools, let's say I can do a grip
on hostname and it will give me all the fields which are associated with the hostname within the output
which the Docker inspect shows.
Now this is one way.
Now the recommended way is to make use of the format command.
So if you typically do a Docker image inspect and I'll do a help over here within the options, you
have one option of formatting.
Now this format basically allows us to format and retrieve the information from the entire chunk based
on the use case that we have.
So let's look into how that specific works.
So I'll do a Docker image inspect, I'll specify the image name, which is Nginx, and I'll also specify
the format.
So for the format, let me put an ID, and now it only returns a specific ID.
Now if you do a Docker images, you will see that Nginx image starts with the ID of four to be 47.
So if you see over here it is four to be 47.
So this is where the information comes from.
All right.
So I hope at a high level overview, you got the understanding on what the format command does.
So let's quickly do a Docker image, inspect on Nginx and see on what more things we can format.
Oops.
Now within the formatting, there are certain things that you need to look for, so let's go a bit up.
So here we had formatted for the ID, so this is pretty straightforward.
Now certain things have a parent child kind of a relationship.
So one example here is the container config.
Now container config in turn has various other values like hostname, you have domain name, you have
user, you have attach standard input, etcetera.
So let's try and see on what output we get when we try to format by container config.
So let's put a container config over here.
And now you see it has basically retrieved all.
The values which are part of the container config.
So if we go a bit up.
So basically the output has all the values associated with the container config.
So values include b 286 then you have no value here, no value here, then you have false, false false,
then you have 80 TCP etcetera and same thing you will be able to find within the output you have.
B 286 Then you have no value, you have false, false, false.
Then you have TCP.
ET cetera.
So this is how the output looks like.
Now in case if you want to also have the key, you can specify the Json over here.
So if I specify the Json, you will be able to see the key value.
So you have the host name.
The host name has this specific host name.
Then you have the domain name and there is no domain name which is associated and similar output.
Now among all of this output, if I just want to see the value associated with the host name, then
you can also filter that out.
So let me remove Json and let's say you just want to see the host name so you can put a dot here and
you can specify the host name.
All right.
So this basically means first go to the container config.
Let's go a bit up to understand this.
First go to the container config and within container config there is again a field of host name and
this is the reason why we had specified the dot over here.
So first you have the container config, then inside container config you have the host name.
So if I press enter you will only be able to see the host name and this is the recommended way in which
if you want to filter out certain information from a image, you can make use of the format option within
the Docker image Inspect Command.
So this is the high level overview about inspecting the Docker images.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Pruning Docker Images ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about Docker image Prune.
Now the Docker image Prune command allows us to clean up unused images which might be present.
Now, by default, whenever you run this specific command, the docker will only clean up the dangling
images.
So while you're working in Docker environment, you will come across the term of dangling images.
So it is important for you to remember on what exactly dangling image is.
Now dangling images are the one which does not have tag.
So basically images which do not have tag and the images which are not referenced by any container.
So this is the end condition.
So any image which satisfies this first requirement and it satisfies the second requirement is called
as the dangling images.
So let's quickly jump to the CLI and look into how exactly it might look like.
So I'm in my CLI.
Let's quickly do a Docker images and you will see that there are certain images which are present over
here.
Now there are certain images which do not have a tag which is associated with them.
Now dangling images are the ones which does not have a tag and the image which is not being referenced
by any container.
So when you do a Docker image prune, then all those dangling images will be removed.
So let's try it out.
So it is giving a warning that this will remove all the dangling images.
I'll press y and you see it has removed one image.
Now if I quickly do a docker images now you should see that the first image which did not have a tag
and it was also not referenced by any container was removed.
Now there is also a second command, so when you do a docker image prune hyphen A What this will do
is this will remove all the images which are not being referenced by any container.
Now this is very important because many times you will see that people just go ahead and pull the images,
but they never start any container from those images.
And slowly, slowly, the disk size would unnecessarily increase.
So when you do a Docker image prune hyphen A, it basically will remove all the images which does not
have a container which is associated with them.
So when I press y, you see it has deleted multiple images over here.
So now if I do a Docker images here, you will see that I only have one image which is available.
And the reason why this image was not deleted is because if I do a Docker ps hyphen a there is one container
which is associated with the ubuntu image.
All right.
Now I just wanted to show you one more thing.
So currently if I do an LS hyphen l I have a simple docker file over here.
All right, so this docker file is very simple from ubuntu.
You are basically running two commands.
Now if I quickly do a docker build, so this will go ahead and create an image.
So again, this specific image can be considered as dangling because not only it does not have a tag,
but there is no container which is running from this specific image.
Now if I start a container from the image, let's start a container, I'll call it as my demo and I'll
start it from the first image.
All right.
Now if I do a Docker image prune and if I do a yes and if I do a Docker images here, you will see that
the first image is not removed.
The reason why it is not removed because it is now no longer dangling, primarily because there is one
container which is associated with the image.
So at a high level overview, I hope you understood on what Docker Prune command is all about.
Now, one important part to remember is that in today's video we are discussing about Docker image Prune.
Now pruning process is not only associated with images, it can be associated with containers, it can
be associated with networks, it can be associated with volumes and others as well.
So in today's video, since we are dealing with images we discussed about the overview commands related
to pruning with respect to the Docker images.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Flattening Docker Images ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about modifying an image to a single layer.
Now, in a generic scenario, you should remember that most of the layers that an image has more the
size of that specific image.
Now, some of the images that I have seen, typically in production, it goes up to like from five GB
to ten GB.
So the image size increases considerably.
So it is very important for us to flatten an image to a single layer which can in turn help in reducing
the overall size of an image.
And this is the reason why it is important for us to understand on how we can modify the image to a
single layer.
So let's jump into the practical and look into how exactly this might look like.
I mean, let's quickly do a Docker images.
So currently I have three Docker images which is available.
Now let's do a Docker image history and specify the Ubuntu image.
So now you see that this Ubuntu image has multiple layers which are present over here.
So our aim is to have only one layer because we already discussed that more the layer, more the size
of the image.
Now if you typically look the size of the image of certain Docker images like MySQL, in fact, let
me show you that.
Let's do a Docker pull on MySQL.
All right.
So now if I do a Docker image history on MySQL, you see the amount of layers that this image has is
quite huge.
And in fact, for some other images you will see much more higher layer than what you see for the MySQL
image here.
So for certain use cases it is very important that you merge all of these layers.
Otherwise your overall image size will be much more higher.
So if you do a Docker images, you will see that the MySQL image is of size 477 MB.
Anyways, let's take the example of Ubuntu for simplicity and we'll look into how we can modify the
layers associated with the Ubuntu image and also look into the associated size when all of these layers
are combined.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a docker run.
I'll give the name of my ubuntu and I'll specify the ubuntu image name.
All right.
Now if you do a docker ps you should see that there is one container up and running and the name is
my ubuntu.
Now if we want to modify the image layer.
So we already saw that ubuntu image had multiple layers over here.
Now in order to merge this layer to a single layer, there are various approaches in which you can do
that.
One of the approach is to export and import the container.
So let's look into how we can do that.
So I'll say Docker, export my ubuntu and I'll call the output as my Ubuntu demo dot tar.
All right.
So now if I do ls hyphen l on my ubuntu hyphen tar, you should see that this is the size and this is
the file which is created.
All right.
So this is the tar file.
Now we have exported our container to a specific tar file.
The next thing is we have to import it back.
So in order to do that, let's do one thing.
Let's do a cat on my ubuntu demo hyphen tar.
And from here let's create a pipe.
I'll say docker import and let's call it as my ubuntu hyphen latest.
All right.
So now if you look into the docker images, you will see that the my Ubuntu image that we have over
here it has the size of 69 MB.
So you see there is a considerable size difference.
Now speaking about the layer that is associated with the my Ubuntu image, let's do a Docker image history.
I'll say my ubuntu and you see that this specific image has only one layer which is present.
So this is it about how you can modify an image to a single layer.
I hope at a high level overview you got a gist into why you should modify images to a single layer,
specifically when your image size is also increasing.
So this can also be referred as flattening the image.
So if you hear.
The term flatten the image.
It means a similar thing.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Docker Registries ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about Docker registry.
Now, understanding the concept of registry is very important and if we look into the analogy of registry,
it is something similar to a GitHub.
Now generally whenever you code for system administrator, it might be some kind of a configuration
management scripts like Ansible, etcetera.
So whenever you write those scripts it is recommended to put it in a centralized location where other
people can access as well as the code will remain safe there because if you store it in your local laptop
and due to some reason your hard disk fails or due to any other reason, if there is a issue with your
workstation, then your code will be lost.
And this is the reason why it is recommended that you store it in a centralized location.
Now, the same concept applies for the Docker registry.
If you are having a local images which are custom, it is not really recommended to store it in the
local server or in the local workstation.
We should store it in a centralized place where it can be accessible by others or it can remain safe
there.
So coming back to the definition of a registry, now a registry is a stateless, highly available server
side application that stores and lets you distribute the Docker images.
Now, generally, whenever you have your own custom docker image, it is stored in your local server
or in your local workstation.
However, that is not safe because if your server stops working due to some reason, then your custom
image will be lost and this is the reason why you should store it in a centralized place.
Now the place where the Docker images are stored is referred as the Docker Registry.
Now Docker Hub is one of the simplest example that we might have used because if you do a Docker pull,
then you basically download the image from a registry and that registry is stored in cloud, which is
referred as the Docker hub.
Now there are various type of registries which are available.
One is the Docker registry.
So this is the open source one, which has a very limited features, but it allows you to have the basic
functionality of storing your Docker images.
You also have a Docker trusted registry which is referred as DDR.
Now this is a enterprise variant for Docker Enterprise.
This has a lot of features.
When you compare it with the Docker registry, you also have various private registry services like
AWS, ECR, where you can store your Docker images.
And the last one is Docker Hub.
So Docker Hub is basically a cloud based offering where you can store your Docker images.
So let's quickly do one thing.
Let's jump into a certain demonstration as well as practical.
So the concept of registry is easily understood.
So I'm in my Docker hub and we are into the registry image.
So this Docker registry is a very basic registry application where we can go ahead and store our images.
Now this registry application offers a simple functionality.
If you want certain advanced functionality, then you can opt for the Docker Trusted registry, which
is which comes with the Docker enterprise.
Now if you go a bit down, the documentation already has the commands through which you can run the
registry.
So let's copy this up and I'll paste it within my CLI.
So what it is doing is it is basically running on port 5000, The name that it is giving it to the container
is registry and it is starting from the registry and with the tag of two.
So I'll go ahead and run it.
So the first thing it will go ahead and pull the registry image and then it will start the container
from the registry image.
So now if I do a Docker images, you should see that I have one Docker image which is available and
if I do a docker, PS you should see that there is one container which is up and running and it is listening
on port 5000 of the host and the traffic would be sent to the port, 5000 of the container.
Now the next thing is for us to verify whether we are able to push the custom image inside this registry
application.
So in order to do that, let's do one thing.
Let's do a Docker pull Ubuntu over here.
Oops.
All right, so our Ubuntu image is now downloaded.
Now if you quickly do a docker images, you should see that there is a ubuntu image.
Now one important part to remember is that whenever we do a docker pull it basically fetches the image
from the Docker hub.
Now we can also have images in various other locations as we were discussing.
So if you look into the slide, there can be various types of registry.
Docker Hub is one among them.
You can have various private registry also like Amazon ECR.
Let me in fact show you.
So this is my ECR in AWS.
Now, if you look into this, there are two repositories which are available.
One is CP registry and second is my example.
Now, within my example, you will see that I have one image which is available over here and the size
of the image is 95 megabyte.
So it is not always necessary that you should pull from Docker hub, you should push to Docker Hub.
You can have your own private repository within your organization as well.
Or if you are running your Docker registry, you can push your images there as well.
Now if you want to push a image, let's say that this is the image that you have committed.
Now you want to push this image, now you can push it to the private registries like ECR.
You can push it to Docker Hub, you can even push it to the Docker registry application, which we have
started.
Now there is a certain format that you need to remember which is needed for you to push a specific image
to a registry.
So let's say that you want to push this specific Ubuntu image to a registry which is running over here.
So the format here is you have to tag the ubuntu image.
Let's try it out.
I'll tag the ubuntu image here and I have to specify the DNS name where the registry application is
running.
So in my case it would be localhost colon 5000.
All right.
And then I can specify the name of the image that I want to store in my registry.
All right.
So now what happened was let's open up Docker images here.
So you would see that there is one more image.
Again, the image ID will remain the same because tag is nothing but the alias.
So you have a image.
It has the localhost colon 5000 slash my ubuntu over here.
Now in order for you to push it to a registry you can say docker push.
Just copy this up and I'll press enter.
All right, so now what it is doing is it is pushing the image to our Docker registry.
So this image is now pushed to the Docker registry application which is currently running.
Now this convention of specifying the DNS remains common even if you are pushing it to a private registry.
So let me quickly show you.
So this is the documentation for ECR now if you will see that within my ECR.
Also I have a image which is present over here.
Now the question is how can we push the image over here and the solution remains the same.
So here also you will see the Amazon documentation.
They are suggesting to do a Docker tag.
So they are suggesting to tag the image with the DNS name of your ECR.
So this is the DNS name of your ECR, followed by the destination, which is my web app.
So this is the name that you are giving.
All right.
And then once you tag it, so currently this is your image name currently.
And this part here is the DNS name of your ECR.
And once you have done that, you are doing a Docker push and this is basically the DNS name followed
by the name that you associate.
All right.
So now that we know that our image is being pushed to the registry, let's go ahead and look into how
we can pull it now in order to pull it.
The command remains the same where I'll say Docker pull.
Then you specify the location where your registry is running, followed by the image name, which is
my Ubuntu.
All right.
So here it says that the image is up to date, so if I do a docker images.
Currently we already have an image over here.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a docker RMI and I'll tag the specific image along with that.
I'll remove the ubuntu image.
Great.
So now if I do a docker images over here, I just have one image of registry.
So now let's try to do a Docker pull command again.
So let me clear the screen.
I'll run the Docker pull command again and now it is pulling the my Ubuntu image from our Docker registry
which is running on port 5000.
So now if I do a Docker images over here, you should see that there is one image which is present.
So I hope you understood at a high level overview the concept of registry and also the importance of
registry.
And last but not the least, how you can push the image to a registry and how you can pull from it.
So this is the high level overview about Docker registry.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Pushing Images to Central Repository ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can push our images to Docker hub.
Now, if you want to push your images to sites like Docker Hub or even easier, then you need to go
through some kind of a authentication process because without authentication you will not be able to
push.
So in today's video, we'll look into how exactly that authentication part works and also how we can
push the image to Docker Hub.
So for our sample demo purpose, you see that I have one repository which is created and this is the
repository which contains a Docker image.
So this is something similar to various other Docker images that we have been exploring in Docker Hub.
So you can just do a Docker push or you can just do a Docker pull based on which you will be able to
push or pull the images through Docker Hub.
So let's go back to the CLI and look into how exactly this can be achieved.
So I'm in my CLI.
Let's do a Docker images.
Now there is one registry image.
Let's do one thing, let's pull a BusyBox image.
The reason why we are pulling the BusyBox image is because of its size.
So now if you do a Docker images, you would see that we have a BusyBox image of size 1.2 MB Now for
Docker Hub, you need to basically do a Docker login.
Now it basically asks you for the username, so this is the username for your Docker hub account.
So I'll say this is my username and this should be your password which you have associated with the
username.
All right, so once your authentication has been successful you would get a login succeeded message.
Now the next thing is how we can push this specific image to our Docker hub.
So in order to do that, we need to do a Docker tag.
So the name would be BusyBox, and then we know that we have to put the DNS name now for the Docker
hub, which is the default one.
We can just specify the username over here.
So this is the username followed by a slash.
Then you can specify the name, let's call it as my demo and you can also specify the version.
So I'll call it as version one.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker images, you have this image which is available.
So now let's go ahead and do a Docker push.
And now if I press enter, you see that it is basically pushing it to the docker IO and this is the
user ID and here is the my demo.
So let's quickly wait for the moment for it to be able to push it.
Great.
So it has been pushed.
So let's go back to Docker Hub and I'll quickly do a refresh here and you should see that there is one
more repository of my demo.
Now within this repository there is one tag which is associated, which is the version one.
Now in case if you want to pull the specific image from the Docker repository, let's go back to the
Docker images and I'll remove the image that we have available over here.
I'll specify the version one.
And also let's remove the BusyBox image.
Great.
So now if you want to pull the image, you have to specify.
I'll say 5066.
Then you have to specify the name, which is my demo and also the version one.
So I'll say my demo version one.
And you see it has been able to pull.
So now if I do a Docker images, you should see that we have one image which the Docker client was able
to pull from the Docker hub.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood on how you can pull and push the images to and from
Docker Hub.
Now same goes for other private repositories like ECR.
If you want to push certain images to ECR or if you want to pull certain images from ECR, then you
will have to login.
Only after you login will you be able to pull or push the images.
Specifically, this is related to the private repositories.
Now at the last, if you want to log out, you can go ahead and type Docker log out and it will go ahead
and log you out.
So next time, if you want to push the image to your account, you need to log in and then you can go
ahead and push it.
So this is the high level overview.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Applying Filters for Docker Images ---

Hey, Ryan, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can search for a specific Docker image from a Docker registry.
Now, a Docker registry might contain hundreds of images.
And among those 100, you might need just one.
So you should be able to run certain Docker commands to be able to find the right image that you might
need.
So in order to do that, the Docker search command is something that we need to look forward for.
So let's run a Docker search command and then explore certain other options which are available.
So I'm in my CLI.
Let's quickly do a Docker search.
Let's say that we want to deploy a Nginx web server.
So I'll say Docker search engine X.
All right, so now you see it has returned a lot of Nginx images with the help of Docker search command.
However, we do not really want to deploy every one.
We just want to deploy the right image.
Now if you quickly do a docker search hyphen hyphen help you will be able to see that there are certain
options which are available.
One of the widely used one is filter and second is limit.
So if you can quickly do a Docker search Nginx and I'll say limit of five because earlier you see it
has returned a lot of content within the output.
So if you run this command it will only give you the listing of five.
And that too, the listing of five will be based on the stars.
So the first image that you see over here, it would have the highest number of stars and the last image
would have the lowest number of stars among the listing that you see over here.
All right.
So I hope you understood the meaning of limit this.
There's also one important option that we were discussing, and that option is filter.
Now, Docker search allows us to filter based on various aspects of the image.
So let's go back to the documentation.
And if you go a bit down now within the filter, you have filter based on stars.
So you can specify filter based on stars, you can specify filter based on whether the image has automated
builds.
And the last one, which is quite useful, you can specify a filter so that only the official image
is being listed over here.
So let's try it out.
So let's say I'll say Docker search, I'll specify Nginx and for the filter I'll say is official is
equal to true.
And now you should only be able to see one image because there is only one image available in Docker
Hub, which is official.
So if you want to verify, let's go to the main Docker hub page here and I'll say Nginx.
Now within here there are a lot of nginx images which are available and among them you only have one
official image which is available.
So this searching of official image can be done with the help of the filter of is official is equal
to true.
So this is the high level overview about the Docker search command.
We looked into filter on how we can filter based on is official and we also looked into how we can limit
the number of output that the Docker Search command gives.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Moving Images Across Hosts ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about moving the Docker images across hosts.
Now, let's go ahead and understand this with a simple use case.
So let's assume that you have a developer college, James, and he has created a application based on
Docker and within his laptop he also has the Docker image that is available.
So you have James in his laptop, he has Docker, and within it you have a image called as my app that
he has created.
Now he wants to send this specific image from his laptop to Matthew.
Now the communication medium in this use case is email, or you can also consider it as a pen drive.
So you have a pendrive where James wants to put his Docker image of my app.
The Pendrive will be sent over to Matthew.
Matthew will attach that Pendrive in his laptop and he'll load the image from it.
So the steps that are required in order to do this is something that we'll be discussing in today's
video.
Now, there are two primary steps that are required.
First is to save that image to a archive file and that can be achieved with the help of Docker save
Command.
So the Docker Save Command will save one or more images to a tar archive.
So the example snippet is Docker save followed by the image name.
So in this case the image name is BusyBox and then you save it to BusyBox dot tar.
So once this tar file is created, James can put this tar file or pendrive or maybe he can send over
this tar file or email.
So this is the step one.
Now, once the Matthew user has received the tar file from James, what he can do is he can run the
Docker load command, which will load an image from the Tar Archive.
So the example snippet here is Docker load, followed by the name of the tar file, which James had
sent.
So these are the two commands.
Let's do one thing.
Let's jump into practical and understand how exactly this would look like.
So for today's video, I have a very simple Docker file that is created.
Let's quickly open this up.
So there are only three instructions.
First one is the BusyBox, one, second one is run, which goes ahead and it creates a text file called
as custom dot txt.
And third is the simple CMD instruction.
So let's go ahead and quickly build a new image out of it.
The name of the image, let's call it as my app.
Great.
So our image is created.
So now when you do a Docker images here, you see that you have one image called as my app that is available.
So this is very similar to our use case where an image of Maya that is available.
So now in order for this image to be transported over a medium like email or maybe pendrive, the first
step is to archive it so that can be done with the help of Docker save.
So let's try it out.
So I'll say Docker save followed by the name of Image, which is my app and the archive name which is
my app dot tar.
All right.
And that's about it.
So when you do an LS, you see that you have my app dot tar that is available.
So we'll be doing a load on this server only.
So now if you quickly do a Docker images since this image is already available, let's go ahead and
remove this one from our host.
All right.
So if you quickly do a Docker images, currently only the BusyBox is available.
So now let's go ahead and load an image from this archive.
So I'll say Docker load followed by my app dot tar and that's about it.
So here you see it is loading the image.
And now if you quickly do a Docker images, you see the image is currently loaded and now you can go
ahead and also create a container out of it.
So that's the high level overview about how you can transfer a Docker image from one host to another.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Docker Save and Docker Load ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Build Cache ---

Haydon.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about build cache or many times it is also referred as the
layer cache.
So by now we already know that Docker creates container images using layers, and each command that
is found within a Docker file creates a new layer as part of the image.
Now Docker also makes use of a layer cache to optimize the process of building a Docker image and makes
it much more faster.
So in this specific diagram, whenever we are trying to build an image called as Demo zero two, you
see what is happening is for many of the instructions, it is directly using the cache instead of building
it from scratch.
So that is what the caching does.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly jump into the practical so that this can be better understood.
So for today's demo we have two file that are available.
One is the Docker file and second is the Requirements.txt.
Now when you quickly open up the Docker file, this Docker file is loading this specific image of Python.
Then it is copying the specific file, which is the requirements.txt inside the container.
And then you have the run instruction which basically goes ahead and installs all the packages that
are defined under the Requirements.txt file.
And then you have the Entrypoint instruction.
Now if you also do a Nano on Requirements.txt, these are some of the packages that is being installed.
So let's go ahead and do a Docker, build the name, let's call it as without cache and let's start
it.
Great.
So our image is built.
So you see that you have the first layer here.
Then you have the copy layer.
Then you have the third layer, which is basically installing the packages from Requirements.txt and
then you have the fourth layer of Entrypoint.
So all the layers are built from scratch.
Now next time when you try to build a similar image, let's call it as with cash.
You see it got built within just a second or two.
It was extremely fast.
So here you see that a copy instruction is making use of a cache.
Then again, the run instruction of installing the Requirements.txt is also making use of the cache.
And also the step four of Entrypoint is also making use of the cache.
So basically if a specific instruction based on which the cache is already available with Docker, the
Docker, instead of building that instruction details from scratch, it can directly make use of the
cache.
And this way the overall building of image is much more faster.
Great.
So I hope now you understood the third point, which states that Docker makes use of the layer cache
to optimize the process of building the Docker images and also make it much more faster.
So before we conclude, let's look into one of the important pointers related to the build cache.
So the important pointer states that if the cache can't be used for a particular layer, all the subsequent
layers won't be loaded from the cache.
Now this can be better understood with this two diagram where you have an old docker file and you have
a new Docker file and there are three layers of each one of them.
So on the old Docker file, you have layer A, B, C, on the new Docker file, you have A, you have
C and for the B layer, you have made certain changes over here.
And on the right hand side you have a logic which states that if the docker will use a cache or not.
So for the layer one, since the layer is same, Docker will make use of the cache.
So a is equal to a so the cache will be used here for the second layer.
Since the instructions are different, you cannot make use of the cache.
So in terms of new docker file, this specific layer will be built from scratch.
And now since the layer two is built from scratch, all the other layers that are beneath the layer
two will also be built from scratch.
That means they will not use the cache.
Great.
So that's the high level overview about the build cache.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Sample Code for Layer Caching ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Docker Networking ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the overview of Docker networking.
Now, understanding of Docker networking is extremely important because let's say that you have multiple
Docker containers.
Now some of the Docker containers might want to talk to the Internet, some might want to be in the
isolated conditions, specifically the containers, which might have critical data.
So depending upon the use cases, you should be able to design or at least have a knowledge about how
you can create a network within Dockers.
Now before we go ahead and understand more about Docker networking, let me quickly show you a few things.
Now, this is my VMware environment where I have the Kali Linux virtual machine.
Now if you look into the network adapter here, let me in fact edit the virtual machine settings over
here.
So if you look into the network adapter here, you have a Nat mode which is available.
Along with that, you also have bridge mode.
You also have host only mode.
You also have a custom mode.
So typically whenever we do some kind of a crypto malware testing or some kind of a virus testing,
we used to select host only mode so that the virtual machine cannot really connect to the internet.
However, if you want to test some other things where internet connectivity is there, then depending
upon the use case you can select a bridge mode or you can select a nat mode.
VMware also allows us to specify a custom network for our virtual machine.
Now, very similar to this, even in Dockers you have various kind of network drivers which are available
now.
The network drivers which are available can be used depending upon the situation and the use case that
your organization has.
So with this, let's jump back to the PowerPoint and understand the type of network drivers which are
available.
Now.
Generally, whenever you install the Docker within your workstation by default, Docker takes care of
the networking aspects so that the container can communicate with other containers and they can also
connect with the Docker.
Host.
So typically in Linux systems, if you have Docker installed, you if you run the ifconfig command,
you will see that there is a Docker zero interface which gets created.
So this Docker zero interface is for the bridge based networking setup.
We'll discuss more in detail in the upcoming videos, but just remember that this interface gets created
in Linux whenever you go ahead and install the Docker.
Now the Docker networking subsystem is pluggable with the help of drivers.
Now there are several drivers which are available and depending upon the use case, each and every driver
has its own networking functionality, so the drivers which are available in Docker are bridge.
You have host, you have overlay, you have macvlan and you have none.
Now if you are using a Docker community edition by default you will have bridge, you have host and
you have none.
If you are using Docker Enterprise, you will also have the overlay one.
Now again, you can also make use of overlay one whenever you are using a Docker swarm.
We'll be discussing about those in detail in the later sections.
But do remember that Docker also has various kind of drivers which are available now.
This is very similar to the VMware use case that we were discussing.
There are various type of network connections which are available and depending upon the use case that
you have, you can use one of the network connections and same goes for the Docker.
Depending upon the use case, you can use one of the selected drivers which are available.
So coming back to the CLI, if I type ifconfig over here, there are multiple interface will ignore
them.
But the one that we are more interested here is the Docker interface.
And if you have a Linux system where you have installed the Docker, you should typically see the Docker
zero interface to be up.
Now if you do a Docker network LS, you should see that these are the network that are created and associated
with the network.
You also have a driver, so you have a bridge, you have a host, you have null.
Now in case if you are using Docker Enterprise, you will have one more driver which is available by
default.
So let's understand more about it with the help of a diagrammatic representation.
So it becomes simple.
So if you see over here on the left hand side, I have a bridge network over here.
So this is a bridge network.
And this bridge network has the size of one 7217 zero zero 16 Now any time a Docker container gets created
with the bridge network it.
Will automatically have the IP address within the range which is defined in the bridge network.
So if the bridge network has a CID of one 7217 zero zero 16 then you'll see the IP address of the first
container is one 7217 zero two.
The IP address of the second container is one 7217 zero three and so on.
Now, as we discussed that a Docker can have multiple networks.
Now it is not necessarily that all the networks would be of type bridge.
You can also have a different network.
So on the right hand side here you have a custom network which is available of type 192 16800 16.
Now this containers which are launched within this network will have the IP address ranging from the
CID of 192 168, something like 192 168 0.1 or 0.2, etcetera.
All right.
So I hope at a high level overview, you got the understanding about the networks.
Now let's go ahead and see more about the bridge network.
Now, any time if you want to see more details about the network, you can make use of the command Docker
inspect followed by the name.
So we are inspecting the bridge network here.
Now, if you look into the bridge network here, let's go a bit down.
It basically shows you a lot of information.
First is the subnet, which is one 7217 zero zero 16.
Now since this is one 7217 zero zero 16 any container which gets launched within the bridge network
here will get the IP address from this specific subnet.
So now if you go a bit down, this also shows you the list of containers which are launched under the
bridge network.
So currently you see there are three containers which are launched.
The first container has the IP address of one 7217 0.2.
Then you have 0.4, then you have 0.3.
So these are the three containers which are launched within the bridge network.
Along with that, you also have a lot of information which is associated with the bridge network here.
Now if you do a ifconfig and go a bit up here, you will see that the bridge network here has the IP
address of one 7217 0.1 and if you do a Docker inspect bridge, what really happens is if you look into
the gateway, Gateway is one 7217 0.1 So for this specific container, for it to be able to communicate,
let's say it wants to communicate to the internet, it needs to send the traffic to this specific gateway.
And this specific gateway is nothing but the Docker zero interface.
So anyways, we'll be discussing more about this when we study in detail about Bridge Network in the
later videos.
Now before we conclude this video, I would just like to share that whenever you create a Docker container
you can create in any of these networks, you can even create custom networks.
However you can create in any of the networks which are available.
So let's say that there are two types of networks which are available.
One is the bridge one and second is the custom one.
So whenever you create a Docker container, you can launch that container in any of the networks which
are available.
Now let me quickly show you how that can be done.
Now, if we do a Docker network.
LS You have three types of networks which are available now.
Let's do a Docker network inspect on the host network.
All right, so there are no containers which are available.
So when I talk about host network, it basically means that a network which has the host network driver.
All right.
So do not confuse it to be a host network.
It is basically a network with the host driver or a network with the bridge driver.
All right.
So now let's say that there are no containers which are running in this specific network.
So in order to do that, you can make use of Docker container run, let's say I'll call it as my host.
And here you can specify network as host and let's launch it from the Ubuntu image.
All right, so now if you do a docker ps you should see that one of the containers which is available
is called as my host.
Now if we do a Docker network inspect host now you will see that there is one container which is available
in this type of a network output.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what networks are and how you can run the containers
in different types of networks which are available.
So this is the high level overview about the Docker networking.
Now one important part to remember here is that we were discussing that there are multiple network drivers
which are available now depending on the use case as well as depending upon various orchestration tools
like you have, the amount of supported drivers would vary.
So if you talk about X, you would see that this document states that Amazon X now supports bridge and
host container networking modes.
So typically when X was initially launched, the bridge and host networking was not supported, but
they have slowly added the support of bridge and host networking modes.
So it's like if you have a very specific use case, let's say, associated with the overlay and and
the tools like X does not support overlay, then it might be little troublesome.
So always it is important for you to remember the use case.
What is the type of network driver which can help you achieve that use case and whether the tool that
you might use for orchestration supports that specific network driver.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
Now in terms of exam perspective, exam will basically focus on your understanding about various type
of network drivers.
You should have a very high level overview about what bridge network driver is, what host network driver
is, what overlay is, and various others.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Understanding Bridge Networks ---

Hey, Ryan, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the bridge network driver in Dockers.
Now a bridge network basically makes use of software bridge, which in turn allows the containers which
are connected to the same bridge network to communicate.
It also provides isolation from the containers which are not connected to the bridge network.
So we can understand bridge network with this simple diagram here.
So let's say that there are three containers which are available now.
These containers will have the IP address depending upon the subnet which is associated with the bridge
network.
So you have the Docker zero Bridge, which is created over here.
And this acts as a gateway.
Now a container which wants to communicate with the Internet typically has to go through the Docker
Zero Bridge.
From there you have the IP tables and from there you have the zero interface.
So now here we are considering that this specific zero interface has the connection towards the Internet.
So you have the container container in turn has their own virtual interface over here.
Now they send the traffic to the Docker Zero Bridge.
If it is destined for the Internet, you have the zero interface which acts as the outbound over here.
Now, in this type of a bridge network, the containers which are created in the bridge network can
also communicate with each other.
So let me quickly show you this with the CLI.
So I'm in my CLI and if I quickly do a docker, PS you should see that I have one container which is
up and running here.
Now if you want to see what is the network that this container is associated with, you can quickly
do a Docker container inspect and the container name.
Now here you see that under the network section you have bridge and it is also showing you the IP address
which this container has.
So from here you will be able to identify the network which the container is associated with.
Now we were discussing that within the bridge network.
We already discussed this diagram.
I hope you understood what is Docker Zero interface is all about.
Now, similar to the diagram that you see over here.
The containers which are present under the bridge network will be able to communicate with each other.
So these containers has the interface.
You can see it is a zero and in turn they have the IP address as well.
So let's do one thing.
Let's start two containers.
So I'll say Docker container run, I'll call it as Bridge zero one.
So this is the container name and I'll start from the Ubuntu.
All right.
And similarly I'll also create a container with the name of bridge zero two.
Now do remember that whenever you create a container and you do not really specify the network, it
gets created in the bridge network.
So now if I do a docker PS over here you should see that there are two containers which are currently
running.
So let's quickly do a Docker container.
Exec I'll connect to the Bridge zero one and if we quickly do a ifconfig, it seems that the ifconfig
binary is not present.
So let's quickly do a apt get update and and apt get install net hyphen tools.
Great.
So the net hyphen tools is now installed.
If we quickly do a ifconfig here, you should see that there is a eth0 interface in this container and
that zero interface has the IP address of one 7217 0.3.
So let's come out of this container, let's do a Docker PS and let's see the bridge zero two Now again
we can find the IP address from the Docker container inspect, I'll say Bridge zero two and this has
the IP address of one 7270 0.4.
Great.
So I'll connect back to the bridge zero one Docker container and let's try to ping the container which
is bridge zero four.
All right.
So the ping is also not present.
Let's quickly install it.
It should be in the part of IP utils, hyphen, ping.
Great.
So now let's go ahead and try and ping and you should be able to ping this specific Docker container.
Now, this is also what we are discussing, that if there are multiple containers within the same network
here, in this case it is bridge, they will be able to communicate between them.
Now, do remember that this communication between containers that we were discussing, which happens
automatically, is for the bridge network.
Now, for certain other networks, this communication does not happen.
So just make sure that you understand that part.
Now, last but not the least, basically we were discussing that whatever traffic that this container
might want to send between each other and between the container and the host, it has to go through
the Docker zero bridge interface, which is one 7270 001.
Now this we can verify as well.
So coming back to the CLI, if I type root hyphen n, you will see that for the destination of 0000,
the gateway is one 7217 0.1 and this 0.1 is basically the Docker zero bridge interface.
So if this container wants to send the traffic to the internet, the traffic first goes to the one 7217
0.1 gateway.
Great.
So with this I hope you understood at a high level overview about Bridge Network.
Now certain important points that you need to remember.
First one is that the bridge is the default network driver for Docker.
Now, if you do not really specify any network driver, this is the type of network that you will be
creating.
And the containers also gets launched on the bridge network by default.
So this is something that we discuss in 0.3, that whenever you start a Docker, a default bridge network
also called as the Bridge is created automatically and newly started containers connect to it unless
otherwise specified.
Now do remember that this bridge network.
So here we are discussing that this is a default bridge network.
Now there is also something called as the user defined bridge network, which is superior to the default
bridge.
So there are a lot of differences between a default bridge network and a user defined bridge network.
So in the upcoming videos, we'll be discussing more about the user defined bridge network and the difference
between the default one and the user defined one.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope you understood at the high level overview what the Bridge network Driver is all about, and I
look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Implementing User-Defined Bridge Networks ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the user defined bridge network.
Now, along with the user defined bridge network, we'll also discuss into some of the aspects related
to the bridge network overall.
Now, in the earlier video of bridge networks, we were looking that there was a Docker zero bridge
interface which was created.
So this acts as a virtual switch.
Now any container that you launch within the bridge network, that container has its associated interface.
Now this interface inside the container is called as the zero.
And from the outside it's something like v x x x.
All right.
Now each of this specific interface has its own set of IP address.
So let me quickly show you this specific aspect on how this might look like.
Now I'm in my CLI, so if I quickly do a show now, do remember that this command might not really work
in Windows.
So this is a specific binary that comes from a package.
So from a bridge show you will see that there is a bridge which is created.
The name is Docker zero and this is the bridge ID.
Now it is also showing you the list of interfaces which are part of this specific bridge.
So currently there are three interfaces which are part of this bridge.
So this is the reason why there is a intercommunication between the containers which are associated
with these interfaces.
So that communication is possible.
Now if you quickly do a Docker network inspect on bridge, you should be able to see that there would
be three containers which would be part.
So you see, you have the first container here, you have the second container here and you have the
third container here as well.
Now in case if you want to try and run this command in Linux, this is part of the package, let's do
a Yum!
What provides bridge.
So this would typically work on CentOS, Linux or Amazon Linux or RedHat based systems.
So this is part of the bridge utils.
So you can download this with the help of something like Yum install bridge utils.
So in my case, since it is already installed, it will say that this package is already installed in
case of ubuntu I believe it would be apt.
Get install bridge utils.
You can try it out now.
Whenever you install a docker it basically has its own default bridge which is created.
However, you can also create your own user defined bridge.
Now whenever you create your own user defined bridge, it comes with its own benefits.
Now some of these benefits includes the pointers that are part of the slide.
Now first is that the user defined bridge provides better isolation and interoperability between the
containerized application.
Then you have the user defined bridge provides automatic DNS resolution between containers.
Now this specific feature is widely used in a lot of organizations.
This is a great feature.
We'll discuss about this.
Then you have containers can be attached and detached from user defined networks on the fly.
You have each user defined network creates a configurable bridge.
And the last one is that the link containers on the default bridge network shares the environment variables.
Now, again, for the exam perspective, you don't really have to understand each and every one of them.
I decided to add all of these pointers within the slide to have a complete slide with a differences
which are available.
Now.
If you look into the documentation, basically I have copied the differences from the official documentation,
so we are linked with the official documentation statements.
Now let's look into one of them.
We'll look into one of them and see on what exactly this is.
Now, in order for you to create a container in the user defined bridge, the first thing is you will
have to create your own user defined bridge.
So let's go ahead and look into how that can be done.
So I'm to Eli.
And if you quickly do a Docker network LS, you should see that there are three types of network drivers
which are available.
So they are bridge host and none.
And each one of them has a name which is bridge host and none.
Now, do remember here that the name that you give.
So this is irrespective.
So you can give any name to your network.
However, the driver which is connected to network really matters a lot.
So in order to create a new network, you can go ahead and do a Docker network, create.
You can specify the driver name.
So in my case, I'll specify the driver name of bridge and you can give the name of the network, which
is my bridge.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker network LS, you will see that there is a new network.
The network has this specific ID, the name is my bridge, and the driver associated is bridge.
Now, along with that, if you do not specify a driver again, you can specify driver like host you
have Null and various others.
However, if you do not specify the driver here by default, Docker will create this specific network
with the bridge driver.
So if you do a dot docker network LS, you will see that this specific network that we had defined without
a driver was associated with the bridge driver.
Great.
So now next thing is let's inspect the My bridge network.
Now this network has the subnet of one 7219 zero zero 16.
Again, this might be a little different in your case.
And the gateway is one 7219 0.1.
Now if you do a ifconfig here, you should see that there is one more interface which should have been
created and this is the interface here.
So basically there are two interfaces which are created.
One is for the My bridge and second is for the my bridge demo that we had created.
So this is the interface which got created associated with the My Bridge network.
Now for the default bridge, you have the Docker zero interface for the My Bridge.
You have a interface which is B r hyphen Fkb So just remember that whatever interface name.
So for default bridge you have Docker zero.
For the custom defined bridge, you can have a different interface.
So the naming might change, but the overall concept remains the same.
Now on top of that, if you do a show now, you should see that there would be three bridges which would
be created and since we do not have any container associated with the new bridge, it does not show
any interface associated with them.
Now, along with that, if you typically do a if config, these are the interfaces that you will be
able to see and these interfaces are associated with the containers.
Great.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create a new container.
So I'll say Docker container run, let's call it as my bridge zero one.
I'll specify here with the hyphen hyphen network that this container should be created within the my
bridge network that we have defined.
All right.
And the last thing, specify the image name from which the container should be created.
Great.
So along with that, we'll launch one more container here.
I'll call it as my bridge zero two.
Great.
So now if you do a big show, you should see that this specific bridge now has two interfaces which
are created and same can be done with the Docker network inspect.
If I do a my bridge, you should see that there are two containers which are being shown.
Great.
So these are the IP addresses associated with each of the container.
Now speaking about the differences that we were discussing, so let's take one of them right now.
So this basically states that the user defined bridge provides automatic DNS resolution between containers.
So this is a great feature.
Let me quickly do a Docker.
PS Now you have two different containers over here.
All right, So these two containers are part of its own user defined bridge network.
Now let's go ahead and connect to the container.
My Bridge zero one.
All right.
And let's go ahead and install certain packages here.
Great.
So the packages are installed.
Now in user defined bridge, you will be able to ping or you will be able to connect based on the DNS
or the container names.
So if I do a ping on bridge zero two, you should see that I am automatically being able to connect
to the IP address which is associated with my Bridge zero two over here.
So if you do a Docker PS, we can connect by the container names or you can specify the DNS names to
be precise.
Now this feature is specific to the user defined bridge network.
Now when you talk about a normal default bridge, so currently if you see over here, I have two containers.
So these two containers are part of the default bridge.
Let's quickly go ahead and connect to one of them.
I'll say Docker container exec.
I'll connect to the bridge zero one container.
Now from here, if I try to connect to Bridge zero two, you see it basically says that name or service
is not known.
So for the default bridge network, you will not be able to do that directly.
So this is the high level overview about the user defined bridge network.
As far as the exam perspective is concerned, you should be able to create a user defined bridge network
at a high level.
Overview.
You should also know the difference between a default bridge and a user defined bridge.
Again, one important part that we should know is that whenever we create a user defined bridge, in
fact, if if you do a Docker network inspect on my bridge.
Oops.
So when you do that, there are a lot of options here, so you can configure your own subnet.
So all of these options that you see over here, again, there are a lot of options here and not all
of these options are defined.
Now when you do a Docker network inspect on just bridge, you will see that this bridge network has
a lot of options which are available, like M2.
Then you have IP masquerade and various others.
So you can define the options associated with the custom bridge network that you create.
So all of those flexibilities, all of the flexibility related to the idea that you associate can be
achieved with the help of user defined bridge networks.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Understanding Host Network ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the host networks.
Now, the importance of host networks is a lot.
Specifically, if you are trying to deploy various kind of security services like IDs or various others.
So let's go ahead and discuss more about Host Networks posters.
We'll have a quick demo.
Now, the host driver basically removes the network isolation between the Docker host and the Docker
container so that the container can use the host networking directly so this can be understood with
the example.
So let's say that you are running a container which binds to port 80.
So basically an application in the container which binds to port 80 and you are using the host based
networking driver, then automatically that application which is running inside the container will automatically
bind to the port 80 of the host IP address.
Now when you compare this with bridge based networking, what we had to do is we had to publish the
port with Hyphen P in host based network that is not required.
Now there is second big advantage of host based network is that if you look into the bridge network
here now, every container in the bridge network has its own interface and the interface has its own
IP address.
So that means that if from the container, if you want to monitor the traffic of the eth0 interface,
that is not possible.
All right.
So let's say that you want to deploy a services like intrusion detection system.
You cannot install that in a container with a bridge network because if you do that, then the IDs will
monitor the traffic of the container.
It will not monitor that of the host.
However, if you want to monitor in such a way that the Containers application can monitor the traffic
of the eth0 of the host, you need to make use of the host network.
So let's quickly jump to the demo and look into how exactly it might look like.
So let's quickly do a Docker network.
LS And here this is the host network that we were discussing.
So let's quickly do a Docker container run.
I'll say it as my host network, I'll specify it Host and I'll run it from the Ubuntu image.
All right, so now if you do a docker ps we should see that there is one container which is up and running.
So this container is based on the host network.
So let's quickly log in to the container.
I'll say Docker container exec and we'll connect to the bash.
Great.
So from here, let's quickly download certain packages.
Great.
So our packages are being downloaded.
And before we go ahead and start our demo, let's also create a container call as my bridge will not
define any network over here.
So it will automatically start from the bridge network.
So if you do a Docker, PS We have one container based on bridge network and we have the second container
based on host network.
Now let's quickly log in to the My Bridge network.
Great.
So.
Again, I'll also install the base packages within this specific container.
Great.
Now, if I do a ifconfig here, you would see that this specific bridge has its own interface, which
is eth0 and it has the IP address of 17270.2.
Now if I do a netstat hyphen p over here, there are no ports or no services which are running on any
of the port.
So let's quickly do one thing.
I'll go ahead and I'll install Nginx in this specific container.
All right.
And once the Nginx is installed, we'll go ahead and start the Nginx.
Great.
So now if we do a netstat hyphen p, you will see that you have the nginx process which is connected
on port 80.
So this port 80 is inside the container.
Now if you come out of the container and if you do a netstat hyphen P, you will see that there is no
port 80 which is opened on the host level.
So that Nginx package and the port which it got opened, it was inside the container.
Now typically in the bridge network whenever we want, that outside world should be able to connect
to Port 80.
If you remember, we had to specify something like this where Hyphen P was published.
So you open up port 80 on the host and you forward the traffic to port 80 of the container.
So this is specific to bridge.
However, for host based networking, this is not required because it directly associates itself with
the host network.
So now let's connect to the container with the host based networking.
I'll say my host and I'll put it as bash.
Now, if I do a netstat hyphen P, you should see that it is showing you all the ports.
So these are the ports which are actually listening on the host server.
All right.
So this is actually the host server port.
Along with that, if you do a ifconfig, you will see that it is actually showing you all the interfaces
associated with the host.
So you see you have the zero interface, you have the Docker zero interface.
ET cetera.
And this is very important because let's say you have an intrusion detection system, so it might want
to monitor the traffic associated with the eth0 interface of the host.
And if you want to put the application inside the container, then you will have to put it in the host
based networking.
Because in the host based networking you will see that all the interface faces of the underlying host
are being exposed inside the container and this becomes very useful.
Now along with that, let's go ahead and install Nginx over here.
Great.
So now let's go ahead and start the Nginx service.
Alright, so now if you do a netstat hyphen p you will see that Nginx is listening on port 80.
So this port 80 is off the host.
Let's try it out from outside of the container.
So now from my host, if I do a netstat hyphen p, you will see that I have port 80 which is exposed.
So this port 80 is basically from the Docker container.
So for the host based networking, you don't really have to do something like hyphen, hyphen, publish
and publish the port.
This is not required for host based networking and although this is great, but only one disadvantage
is that you cannot really run two applications which are running on port 80.
Let's say that I have two applications in two different container, so both of the applications cannot
start on the same port because the port is associated with the host and you can only have one application
which can associate itself with a single port.
So this is the high level overview about the host based networks.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Implementing None Network ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the nun network.
Now, if you want to completely disable the networking stack on a container, you can make use of the
nun network.
Now, in this mode, what happens is there is no IP address which gets configured on the container so
that the container does not have access to any external network or it does not even have access to any
other containers.
So similar to this, we used to have a network for our virtual machine where we used to do a virus testing,
malware, testing, etcetera, so that the virus cannot really escape and it cannot connect to the other
virtual machines or towards the internet.
So anyways, so that was more with respect to the virtualization, however, nun network is something
which is quite similar.
So let's quickly jump into practical and look into how exactly this might look like.
So I'm in my CLI if I quickly do a Docker network.
LS, you will see that the third type of network is called as nun.
So this nun network is basically making use of the nun network driver.
So let's do one thing.
Let's create a container based on the nun network type.
So I'll say Docker container run.
Let's give it a name of my nun.
I'll start from the nun network and we'll make use of the Alpine image.
All right, so now if I do a Docker, PS we have three container.
One is based on the host network, second is based on the bridge network, third is based on the nun
network.
So let's quickly connect to the container.
Great.
So as we have discussed that in this type of approach, what happens is that there is no IP address
which is configured.
So this specific container cannot connect to the external network, nor it can connect to the other
containers.
So if you typically do an if config over here, you will only see that there is one loopback interface
and that is about it.
There is no other interface which is associated to it.
So this specific container cannot connect to the outside world at all.
So if you quickly want to verify if I do a ping on google.com, you will see that I am not able to perform
the ping.
This is because there is no IP address and there is no networking stack which is associated with this
specific container.
So this is basically launch in an isolated network stack.
So this is the none network.
Pretty simple to understand and that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Publish All Argument for Exposed Ports ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about publishing exposed ports of containers.
Now, we have already discussed about how you can expose a port inside the container with the host.
So the command here is the hyphen P option.
So this is something that we have already discussed where with hyphen P we have the port 80.
So this is the port of the host that we want to expose to.
And the next one is the container port where the service would be running.
Now the small hyphen P is also referred as publish list, as it publishes only the list of ports that
are being specified with the command.
Now there is also a second approach to publish all the exposed port of the container.
Now this second approach is hyphen Capital P.
Now this is also referred as publish all.
And what happens in this approach is that all the exposed ports within the container are automatically
published to random ports of the host.
So let's quickly look into what exactly this means.
So I'm in my CLI and let's do one thing.
Let's quickly create a new container.
So I'll call it as web server and we'll launch it from the nginx image.
All right, so now if you do a Docker PS, you will see that you have a web server container up and
running.
Now this container is listening on port 80, so this port 80 is inside the container.
We have not really exposed it.
So if you want to verify if I can do a curl on 127001 on port 80, you see the connection is refused
because this port 80 is inside this specific container.
Now, in order to solve this, what we generally use to do, we use to specify the hyphen.
P And we used to say, let's say 80, 80, colon 80, and let's change the name to Web server zero one.
Now in this case, let's do a Docker.
PS You will see that the port 8080 of the host is mapped to the port 80 of the container.
And if you do a curl command again on port 8080, you will see that you are able to see the default
nginx page.
So this seems to be working and this is something that we already know.
So now let's try one thing.
Let's do a hyphen.
P All right, we'll do a hyphen.
P And let's change the name to Web server zero two.
So now what happens here is that you see automatically a random port got assigned.
So this is the random port which got opened and it automatically assigned itself to forward to the port
80 inside the container.
So if you want to verify here, I say curl 1270.0.1 on 32768 and here you are able to see the default
nginx page.
So generally whenever you make use of hyphen P option, what happens is that any port which is exposed
in a specific image, the hyphen P option will correspondingly create a random port in the host and
it will map it to the exposed port of the container.
So in this case you don't really have to explicitly specify the port mapping.
It automatically does it for you.
So that's the high level overview about the capital hyphen P option.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Legacy Approach for Linking Containers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be looking into how we can link multiple containers so that they can
communicate with the link name.
Now, this is very similar to one of the features which have been provided by the custom defined bridge
network.
So let's quickly jump into the demo so we can understand on what exactly this means.
So this is my CLI, so let's quickly create a new container, I'll call it as container zero one will
launch it from the BusyBox image.
All right, so if I do a docker, PS we should have that.
There is one container which is currently up and running, so now we'll create one more container.
This time we'll specify a link.
So let's look into how exactly that might work.
So I'll say Docker container run, I'll specify the link.
So when you specify a link, you have to specify the source container and the alias name.
So let's say source container is container zero one.
So this is the source container here and the alias name I'll give it as container.
All right.
And now we'll launch a container called as container zero two from the BusyBox image.
So the only change that we have done is to add this specific stanza, which is link container zero one
and container.
We'll just look into what exactly this would do.
All right, So now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that we have container zero two up and running.
Now let's connect to the container zero two.
And from container zero two.
If I do a ping container, you see it automatically resolves the IP address associated with the container
zero one year.
So this is in the default bridge network.
This is not the user defined bridge network.
I'm sure you know this feature is also quite similar with the user defined bridge network.
So link option was something which is legacy.
It is the older approach of defining things.
However, later Docker came up with an approach where this kind of a feature is already available with
the user defined bridge network.
Now if you look into the Etsy host file, you see that the Docker has automatically added this specific
entry.
So anytime a container name is linked, it will automatically resolve with one 7217 0.2.
So this is what exactly the link option does.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what link option is.
Now do remember that hyphen hyphen link is a legacy approach.
It is not recommended to be used now.
However, for exams you might get a question related to link and they might ask you whether link should
be used or a custom defined bridge should be used.
So obviously your answer should be the custom user defined bridge.
So that's the high level overview about this.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Container Orchestration - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video at an overview, we are going to discuss about the basics of container orchestration.
Now again this video is going to be very important.
Specifically before you learn any orchestration tools like Kubernetes, swarm, ECS, etc. this video
will act as a base that will make things easier for learning any orchestration tool.
So with this, let's get started.
Now before we discuss about container orchestration, it is important for us to take a step back to
see what users and organization used to do before these tools became much more mature, to be ready
to serve production level traffic.
Now, during the initial times, users relied on manual container management tool to handle various
tasks like launching containers, managing containers, and so on.
For example, let's say that you have a server and you have a user, and user wants to launch some containers
for his application or his website.
So what he will do first, he will manually login to the server, and then he will run certain commands
like docker run to create the appropriate containers required for the application to run.
Now this is good from a smaller scale environment.
Generally, during earlier times, organizations were much more mature where they would have some kind
of an automation script, maybe through Python, shell scripts, etc. that used to take care of common
tasks like deployment, scaling, networking, monitoring, etc..
Now, irrespective of both the approaches that we are discussing here, when the environment becomes
larger, specifically in production environment, both the approaches are not really sufficient to handle
things at scale.
So let's take few common examples that almost all of the organizations use to face.
And then we'll see on how container orchestration comes into picture.
So first challenge here is related to manual scaling.
So let's say that you have a server one where there are two containers that are running now suddenly
as part of your promotion or maybe some kind of advertisement, you are receiving very high traffic
on your website.
And the issue is that there is only one container running for app, one container running for nginx.
So in the situation where there is an unexpected high amount of traffic that is coming to your website,
you want some form of scaling to happen.
Now you also have a second server that is available.
However, this scaling will not really happen automatically.
So now what will happen is the user or the developer.
He will have to manually create the container on the second server as well.
And then whatever traffic that comes to your website, it needs to be load balanced between the containers
in the server one and server number two.
So all of this is a manual process and it takes a lot of time.
Now let's explore one more very common challenge that organizations used to face specifically related
to fault tolerance.
So let's say that you have some containers that are running in the server one.
Now if a container has failed, it can be due to a wide variety of reasons.
It can be a crash, it can be due to resource exhaustion, etc. the container generally would not automatically
restart without manual intervention in most of the cases.
Now at this stage we are just taking an example where app container has failed.
However, what happens if the entire server one has failed?
How would you automate things in such cases?
So when you have a manual based approach, if the server one fails what you might do in the server two
again you will launch the app container.
You will launch the nginx container, redirect the traffic to the server two and so on.
So all of this is a manual process and it makes things difficult for production level environments.
So these are just two common challenges that a wide variety of other challenges also that organizations
were facing.
And in order to overcome all of these, you have a new technology of container orchestration that came
into picture.
Now at a very high level overview of container orchestration automates the deployment, management,
scaling and networking of the containers.
So now what will happen is you have a container orchestration tool which is responsible for all of this
task.
Now user let's say a user wants to launch certain containers in a fleet of servers.
So he will not manually log in to each of the server, manually run the docker run command to create
a container, and so on.
So that is the older approach.
So now in the newer approach where container orchestration is used, user will communicate directly
to the container orchestration tool.
And container orchestration tool will in turn take care of the responsibility of launching the containers
in the appropriate server, making sure that this containers are always running.
If the containers are not running, let's say if a server one has crashed, then container orchestration
tool has that logic to migrate that container or relaunch the container in another server to ensure
that containers are always running.
So most of the common tasks related to deployment scaling, networking, everything.
Container orchestration tool takes care of it.
So let's look into how container Orchestration tool allows us to solve some of the important challenges
that organizations used to face.
So let's say that you have in total of three servers that are running as part of the fleet.
As of now, the traffic is less.
So you have 25% of traffic, and the container orchestration tool has launched one container in server
number one.
Note that many of the mature container orchestration tool can automatically scale the containers up
or down, based on the defined policies and the real time traffic.
This is the important part to understand.
So let's say as of now the traffic is less.
You only have one container, but at a later stage you have increased the amount of traffic.
So you have 75% of traffic that is coming.
So this single container might not be able to handle all of the requests.
So now what container orchestration will do.
It will go ahead and launch multiple set of containers in multiple servers.
and also the traffic will be routed equally among all of the servers.
And this is a great benefit for organizations.
Along with that, we were discussing about the challenge related to fault tolerance.
Now when container orchestration is introduced, it can automatically look into the health check of
the containers that are running.
And let's say that the server one has crashed due to some reason.
Then container orchestration will go ahead and it has the appropriate logic to create one more set of
containers in another server and redirect all of the traffic to server number two so that the website
is always running.
So all of this important logic, you don't really have to create the manual scripts related to it.
The container orchestration tool automatically takes care of it.
And this is of great benefit and it saves huge amount of time.
Great.
So now that we understand the basic of it at an overview, let's have a quick demo to understand on
how things really work.
Now for today's demo video I have three servers that are created.
One is where you have a container orchestration tool that is available, and you have two more servers
which are going to be the worker node where the actual containers can run.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to this server post, which will be discussing things in more
detail.
Great.
So currently I am connected to all of the three servers.
Now as we are discussing, when you have a container orchestration tool that comes into picture, user
will not really log in to each of the server.
Manually launch the container, route the traffic accordingly.
What user will do?
He will instruct the container orchestration tool that say I need five containers of nginx and container
orchestration tool has the appropriate logic to launch the five containers and ensure that they are
always running.
So let's take an example where I instruct that in total I need five containers of nginx that should
be running now.
Again, we are not interested in the command at this stage.
We are more interested to see on how things work at a high level.
Overview.
So when I press enter the container Orchestration tool, whatever is available has the appropriate logic
to take whatever instruction that you have provided, and it will act on it to ensure that in total,
five containers will be created and will always be running.
Now, as we are discussing that there are multiple worker servers that are running.
In fact, the containers can also run on the main manager node in case if you have configured it.
So let's look into it.
So in the main node over here, if you see when I run Docker PS there are two containers that are running
here.
Then in worker node one if I do a docker PS, you see I have one more container running here and in
worker node two if I run docker PS you have two more containers of nginx that is running over here.
Now as we were discussing That container orchestration tool also ensures that whatever instruction that
you have provided, it gets fulfilled all of the time.
For example, we have told the container orchestration that I need a total of five containers of nginx
that would be running now, let's say due to some reason the worker zero two server has crashed.
All right, so let me do one thing.
I'll manually stop the server.
All right.
I'll shut down this specific server and we'll see on how the container orchestration tool will ensure
that these two containers that were running in the worker zero two, which is no longer present, these
two containers are created in the remaining servers, whatever are running.
So now let's run the Docker PS command once again.
Within here you have two containers that are running now in the worker zero one.
If I run the docker PS.
You see, in total there are three containers that are running and this two containers are the new containers
that got created in the worker zero one.
Why?
Because worker zero two is no longer responding.
All right.
So this is one very simple example related to what container orchestration tool allows us to do.
Now one thing to note is that container orchestration tool is a lot more.
Now just for this video we had taken two examples related to manual scaling and fault tolerance.
However, there are a lot of important features that the container Orchestration tool provides from
the perspective of production environment, which is very helpful.
For example, load balancing and traffic routing monitoring of container health.
Along with that, one point to note is that there are many container orchestration tools that are available
in the industry, and based on the requirement, you can use one among them.
For example, Docker Swarm has been one of the very popular container orchestration tool that was initially
used.
Nowadays in the industry, if you speak, Kubernetes is extremely popular and in fact most of the organization
seems to be using Kubernetes because of the wide range of extensive features that it provides.
When we discuss about AWS, you also have EKS.
Again, it is a container orchestration that is available.
For example, let's also explore.
So when it comes to AWS you have the Elastic Container Service.
If you see it is a fully managed container orchestration service.
Now at this stage we have understood at a high level overview on what container orchestration allows
you to do.
So I hope this makes better sense now.
Then the second one is the Docker swarm.
Again, this is something that is used not so extensively nowadays, but it was very popular earlier
and the most popular in the industry nowadays is Kubernetes.
Again, a great container orchestration with extensive set of features.
And it really makes things much more easier.
And you can literally run things at an enterprise grade scale without facing scalability and other issues.
Great.
Now, before we conclude, one pointer that I wanted to share is that irrespective of the container
orchestration tool that you choose at a high level overview.
As we were discussing, the main task of container orchestration remains to be the same.
However, depending upon the tool that you choose, the features that are available will change drastically.
For example, when we compare Docker Swarm with Kubernetes, there is a huge difference in terms of
features.
Docker swarm does not have too many features.
However, when it comes to Kubernetes, it has extensive set of features compared to any other container
orchestration tool that is available in the industry.
And this is the reason why, again, Kubernetes is so popular and why so many organizations are using
it quite extensively.
All right.
But again, it all depends upon environment to environment basis.
For example, when we discuss about Docker Swarm it is very easy to set up.
However, when we discuss about Kubernetes, the overall process is a little more complex when compared
with the Docker Swarm, but again, Kubernetes.
Also provides extensive set of features as well.
And when we discuss about EKS.
Again, the overall process is much more easier to set up because you can do it through the GUI.
Itself.
So depending upon the organization that you are working with and the exact use case, the.
Container orchestration tool that you might choose will be different.
For example you need a.
Very simple setup for container orchestration because you do not really have a manpower or expertise.
So in such cases, we have seen that organizations use very simple setup based on Docker Swarm or maybe
even EKS.
But in a large scale organization, in enterprises where you have a manpower, you have the required
capabilities, and you need some tool to manage thousands and tens of thousands of containers at scale.
In such cases, Kubernetes is something that proves to be very useful.
All right.
So that's a very high level overview about the container orchestration.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Docker Swarm & Building Labs ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the overview of Docker Swarm.
Now, Docker Swarm is basically a container orchestration solution which is natively supported by Docker.
Now that's about it.
As far as the introduction to Docker Swarm is concerned.
So what I decided was to initially have less theory and side by side.
As we move forward, we'll go ahead and understand various features which the Docker swarm supports.
Now, in order for us to have a proper Docker swarm setup, we need to have a new lab setup here.
So what we'll be doing is we'll be building up a swarm cluster.
So our cluster will have three nodes.
So this three nodes are basically three virtual machines.
And in these three virtual machines, basically we need to install Docker and then we have to initialize
the Docker swarm cluster.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and initialize the three nodes for today's video.
And once we do that in the next video, we'll go ahead and initialize the Docker swarm cluster.
So for my lab setup, I'll be using the Digitalocean in in your case, if you have Linode or if you
have et cetera, you can go ahead and implement there.
So what I'll do, I'll go ahead and I'll create a droplet here.
So the droplet would be based on CentOS.
I'll be choosing the $5 one to minimize the overall cost.
You can also select the similar configuration one.
Now in terms of the data center region, I'll select Bangalore because this would be the nearest to
me.
And also if you're using Digital Ocean, you can go ahead and enable private networking and add your
SSH key so that you can log in.
Once you have done that, you can select the number of virtual machines that you want to create.
So I'll select three because we need three nodes to be initialized for our swarm cluster.
So I'll select three over here and you can also select the host name.
So let's select the host name of Swarm zero one.
Then Digitalocean automatically added Swarm zero to Swarm zero three.
So now you have three host names associated with three nodes that we'll be creating.
Once you have done that, you can go ahead and you can create the droplets.
Great.
So now we have three virtual machines which are created, and these are the three IP addresses associated
with the virtual machine.
So let's quickly log into one among them.
So I have logged into one of the virtual machine.
And basically for us to initialize the swarm cluster, we need to have Docker installed.
So what I have done is I have created a very simple bash script which goes ahead and configures the
Docker repo.
It installs the Docker, starts the Docker and enables it at the boot.
So I'll just copy this script again.
I'll be posting it after this video so that you can go ahead and run it.
So let's call it as Docker installed dot s H Oops, let's try VI.
I'll add the script here.
I'll make it executable and let's go ahead and run it.
All right.
So now it will go ahead and install and start the Docker service in Swarm zero one server.
Now the same thing.
You need to do it for all the three nodes.
So basically you have to run the script or you can even run the commands manually.
So you need to do it in all the three nodes.
Once we have Docker up and running in all the three nodes, the next step would be the initialization
of the swarm cluster.
Great.
So the docker is installed now in order to verify whether the Docker service is running, we'll do a
Systemctl status docker and it is up and running.
So just do one thing, just run this commands in all the servers which will be participating in the
Docker swarm cluster.
Now make sure that you name the servers so that it is easier for you to differentiate.
So in my case, if you see over here, this is Swarm zero one.
Now if I log in to the second VM, it would be Swarm zero two and the third would be Swarm zero three.
So it will be easier for us to identify the virtual machine when we are doing clustering and other setup.
So that's about it for today's video.
Go ahead and complete the setup.
And in the next video we'll go ahead and initialize the swarm cluster.

--- Document - Docker Script ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Initializing Docker Swarm ---

Hey, Ryan, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the initializing the Docker swarm.
Now, there are certain key terminologies that you need to understand for Docker Swarm.
One of them is a node.
So a node is basically an instance of Docker Engine, which is going to be participating in the swarm.
So in our case there are going to be three nodes and all of them are going to be part of the overall
swarm cluster.
Now to deploy your application to swarm, you must submit a service definition to a manager node.
So among all of these, whenever we initialize a swarm, one will act as a manager node and we basically
dictate to that manager node that I need.
Let's say for example, I need two containers of Nginx which should be up and running at all the time.
So we submit that specific service definition to a manager node.
So manager Node can be one among them that we can select.
And once we tell the manager node that we need two Nginx containers to be running up all the time,
then the manager node basically will dispatch the unit of work to the worker node.
So then once the manager knows that it needs to deploy two containers of Nginx, it will go ahead and
dispatch that to the worker node.
So you have the terminology of manager node and you have the terminology of worker nodes.
Now in order to initialize the Docker swarm, there are two commands that you need to run.
One would be in the manager node and second would be in the worker nodes.
So what we'll do is we'll select the Node zero one as the manager node and node zero to Node zero three
will act as the worker nodes.
So I hope before we start, I hope you also have three virtual machines up and running and make sure
that you also have connectivity between all of these three virtual machines.
Great.
So let's go back to the CLI and let's run the command in the manager node.
So if you see over here, I have three terminals which are open.
One is for swarm zero, one second is swarm zero two and third is swarm zero three.
So in this way it becomes easier for us to run the commands in each one of them.
Great.
So currently am in the Swarm zero one.
So let's go ahead and initialize this node as the manager node.
So the first thing that you need to do if config and you need to have the IP address associated with
the zero interface.
So we are going in a very simple fashion.
So whatever IP address which is public, just select that IP address.
Once you have done that, let's go ahead and initialize it.
So I'll say advertise.
And once you have done that, just paste the IP address which is associated with the zero.
So you can even do something like ifconfig, ETA zero and you can directly get the IP address here.
So let's copy the IP address and I'll paste it.
Great.
So once you have done that, you should see a message, something similar to this.
It says that the swarm has been initialized and this current node is now a manager and it is also saying
that to add a worker node to the swarm, run the following command.
So this command basically allows the worker node to join your swarm cluster.
So what I'll do, I'll copy this entire instruction here and let me put it in a text file so that it
is easier for us to follow.
Now, this specific command allows the worker node to be able to join the swarm.
So I'll copy this command and I'll paste it in the swarm.
Zero two.
Now, before we run that, let me quickly show you one thing.
So within the Swarm zero one server, which is acting as a manager.
So if you quickly do a Docker node ls you will see that there is only one node which is currently up.
So the host name is Swarm zero one status is ready, availability is active and the manager status here
is the leader.
Great.
So let me run this command in the worker node and it states that this node has joined a swarm as a worker.
Now, once you have done that, if you quickly run Docker Node LS again, you should see that one more
node is up and running.
So in the similar fashion, I'll run the Docker swarm, join Command in the Swarm zero three virtual
machine as well.
Great.
So this node has also joined a swarm as a worker.
And now you see after the Docker node LS, you should be able to see three virtual machines as part
of the swarm.
Now, in case if this becomes a little difficult to read, you can just copy it up and within the text
document you can directly paste it.
So now you see it becomes quite easier for you to read.
So you have three hostname swarm 010203.
All the status are ready.
One among them is the leader over here.
Now the reason why we were discussing to have a proper hostname for your virtual machine is because
it becomes easier for you to read.
And also during the troubleshooting it will be easier for you to troubleshoot.
So this is it about initializing the Docker swarm.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood on what are the steps which are required to initialize.
So among the three nodes, one among them acts as a leader node and two that leader node, we specify
the service definition, which basically contains how many containers we want to run all the time among
the nodes and various other.
So we'll look into them in the upcoming videos.
So that's about it for today's video.
I highly encourage you to try it out because Docker Swarm or any container orchestration is fully practical.
And once you do the practical, then only you will have a strong understanding of it.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Initializing Swarm Cluster ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Services, Tasks and Containers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into some of the key terminologies related to the Docker swarm, which
are services, tasks and containers.
Now, a service is basically the definition of the task to execute on the manager or the worker nodes.
So let's say this is a simple command to create a service.
So it is Docker service create.
We give the name of the service as web server.
We specify the number of replicas, which is one and from which image our application container should
launch.
And this is enginex.
So once you run this command, what swarm will do is swarm will basically create one nginx container
in one of the nodes which are part of the swarm.
Now, once this container is created and due to some reason this container has stopped working, the
swarm will automatically restart that container.
If not, then it can also let's say that the entire node has failed and it is not responding.
So in this case it will go ahead and create the container in a different working node so that your service
is always operational.
So if you say replica of one, it basically means that at an instant of time one container would always
be up and running.
Now when you go ahead and start working with Swarm, there are certain terminologies like services,
task and containers that you should understand.
So service, we already discussed an example.
So let's say in this example we have three Nginx replicas.
So this is a service.
So in service we basically specify if you see Docker service create, we specify the amount of replica
that we want within our cluster.
So in this case, if we say that there should be three nginx replicas, then what orchestrator will
do?
It will create three tasks and each task is associated with a container.
So if you see there is one task in Node one, you have the second task in Node two and you have third
task in Node three and each task has the container.
So container is like an initiation of a specific task.
Great.
So that's the high level overview.
Let's go into the practical so that the entire concept becomes much more easier for us to understand.
So I'm in my CLI.
So currently we are in the swarm zero one so if we do a Docker node LS, we should have three nodes
to be up and running.
Now if I do a Docker service.
LS You should see that there are no service which are created as of now.
So let's go ahead and create a service.
So I'll say Docker service, create.
Let's give the name of service as web server.
I'll specify the replicas as one, and I'll specify that the container should be launched from the Nginx
image.
So since we have one replicas over here, the total amount of tasks that will be created would be one.
Great.
So now it says that one out of one tasks are now running.
So if we quickly do a Docker service LS, you should see that you have a web server.
The mode is replicated, replica is one out of one and the image is nginx hyphen latest.
So now let's quickly do a Docker service.
PS Our service name is web server and here it basically gives you the information related to the service
and the node in which the service is running.
Again from here, the output might be a little confusing.
Let me copy this up and within our text document I'll paste the output over here.
So here we see that we have a service.
The name is Web Server, the image is Nginx.
Now it also shows in which node the service is running.
So in this case it is running in Swarm zero one.
The desired state currently is running the current state is running.
All right, now let's do one thing.
Let's do a Docker.
PS And currently you see that there is one container which is up and running and the container is of
Nginx.
So now let's go ahead and stop this container and see on what exactly happens when this container is
stopped.
All right.
So now if the container is stopped, let's run the Docker service PS Web server yet again.
So now you see what happened.
Was it basically shown you that there was a container which was running in Swarm zero one and the state
is now shut down.
So what it did was it created a container in a different node.
In this case, it created a container in the Swarm zero three node.
So let's go to the Swarm zero three node and see whether a container is launched or not.
So within the current state, it will also show you the overall status.
So I'm in my swarm zero three so let's do a Docker.
PS And here you should see that you have one container which is up and running and this was created
by the Docker orchestrator.
Now in case let's, let's stop the Docker service altogether here and let's see on what does the orchestrator
do now.
All right, So we have stopped the Docker here.
So that basically means that whatever application which was running over here has stopped working.
So from the Swarm one node, let's run the Docker service PS web server yet again.
And now you see you have the third output.
So first we had shut down the Docker container in the swarm zero one.
Now we had shut down the docker in the swarm zero three altogether.
So now orchestrator detected that the container has stopped working and it created the container in
Swarm zero one yet again.
So if I quickly do a docker, PS you should see that this is a new container which has started to work.
So one last thing I wanted to show you.
Let's quickly do a Docker service.
LS So this is a service which is running now in case if you want to remove the service, you can say
Docker service, remove web server.
And now if you quickly do a Docker service LS, it will go ahead and remove the service.
Now once the service is removed, if you do a Docker PS, you should see that whatever nginx container
which was running the container has been removed.
So this is the high level overview about how you can create a service and how exactly the orchestrator
works.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Replicated Service CLI Command ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Scaling Swarm Service ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll discuss about how we can scale these services within our swarm.
Now, once you have deployed a service to a swarm, you are ready to use the Docker CLI to scale the
number of containers within the service.
So let's say that initially you have launched the replica of one.
That means you have one container which is up and running.
So tomorrow you know that the amount of production traffic that might be coming would be high.
So you want to scale up so you can scale up, so you can scale your service in such a way that there
can be two web server container or there can be five web server container, etcetera.
Now, we already discussed and I hope you know that the containers running in a services are called
as a task.
So this is one part that you should remember.
So let's jump into the practical and we look into how we can scale these services both in the up and
down fashion.
So let's quickly do one thing.
Currently, if I do a Docker service LS, I don't really have a service right now.
Let's go ahead and create a service.
I'll say Docker service, create, I'll call it the name of web server, the amount of replicas.
Let's give it as two and we'll start it from the nginx image.
So basically this should create one task.
So by now I hope you started to grasp the commands related to creating a service.
This is quite important for the exams as well.
So now if we quickly do our Docker service PS web server, you should see that you have one task which
is running on Node zero two.
Now let's say that you want to scale.
So currently only one task is running.
Let's say you want to scale tomorrow a production traffic is going to increase and instead of one container,
you want to launch five containers.
So how can you do that?
So you can do that with the scale option.
So I'll say Docker service scale, I'll say web server, and I'll specify the amount of tasks.
So which is five.
All right.
So now it went ahead and created five tasks.
So one among them was already created.
So in addition to this specific one, it has created four more.
So let's quickly wait for it to be verified.
Great.
So the verification has completed.
So now if you do a Docker service PS on web server, you should see that there are five tasks which
are running.
One is in Swarm zero two, second is in Swarm zero three, you have swarm zero two, swarm zero one
and Swarm zero three.
So these are the tasks which are running.
So now we see that there are two tasks which are running in Swarm zero two.
Let's go ahead and stop the docker within the swarm zero two and verify whether orchestrator is able
to detect it and come out of it.
So I'm in my swarm.
Zero two Let's quickly do a Docker.
PS And we should see that there are two containers which are up and running.
Let's go ahead and stop the Docker service here.
I'll say systemctl, stop Docker.
Great.
So our Docker daemon is stopped now.
So from the Swamp zero one Let's quickly do a Docker service PS Web server yet again.
And now you should see that there are two tasks which are stopped, so you have shut down.
So this is associated with the Swarm zero two and you have one more task which is in the shutdown state.
So now what happened?
You have one task running in Swarm zero, one second is running in Swarm zero three, third is running
in Swarm zero one fourth is running in Swarm zero one and fifth is running in Swarm zero three.
So within the swarm zero one, if I do a Docker.
PS, you should see that there are total of three tasks which are running in this specific node.
Now, in the same way, the way in which we scaled up, we can also scale down as well.
So I'll say Docker service scale, let's say web server and I'll change from 5 to 1.
So what it will do is it will go ahead and remove four containers which were running.
So if you do a Docker service PS web server, you should only see that there is only one container which
is up and running in Swarm zero one.
So within Swarm zero one, if you do a Docker PS, you should see that there is one container which
is up and running.
So this is it about how you can scale the services within the swarm.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Scaling Service CLI Command ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Multiple Approaches to Scale Swarm Services ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we discussed the scaling of services in Swarm and how we can achieve that.
Now, basically, there are two ways in which you can go ahead and scale the services in Swarm.
And as far as the exam perspective is concerned, it is important for us to remember on the two ways
in which we can scale also the difference between them.
Now, as we were discussing, there are two ways in which you can scale the service in Swarm.
The first one is through the command Docker service scale.
Web server is equal to five.
So here the web server is the service name.
So this is something that we have already seen.
Now the second way is through the Docker service update command, where with the hyphen hyphen replica,
we specify how much replicas we need followed by the service name.
So these are the two ways in which we can do that.
Now in exams you might get a question related to the difference between both of them.
So it is important for us to understand that.
So let's quickly go ahead and see the difference between them.
So when my CLI and if you do a Docker service LS currently there are no service which are running,
so let's go ahead and create a new service.
So I'll say Docker service, create, let's call this as service zero one, I'll say replicas as one,
and I'll specify the image which is Nginx.
So this should go ahead and create one task which would have one container.
Now, in a similar way, let's go ahead and run this command once again.
This time we'll call it as Service zero two.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker service LS, you should see that there are two services which are created
and each service has a associated Docker container.
So if I do a docker PS, you should see that there are two Docker containers.
Each of the Docker container is associated with a specific service.
Now we have already seen that in order for us to scale the service.
So currently there are one replica.
So if you want to scale the service, you can make use of the Docker service scale command where you
can specify the service name and you can specify the number of replicas that you want to scale.
Now you can also make use of the command, which is Docker service update replicas fi, followed by
my web server.
So let's try both of them.
So let's do one thing.
I'll say Docker service scale, let's call service zero one and the total amount of replicas that we
want is two.
So it will go ahead and it will create two tasks associated with it.
Great.
Now similar to that, you can do a Docker service update followed by replicas.
So I'll say replicas is equal to two and I'll say service zero two.
So again, the Docker orchestrator will go ahead and it will create one more replica task.
So if you see both of them does a similar operation here.
So at the end we should have four Docker containers and as expected, there are four Docker containers.
Two of the Docker containers are associated with one service and the two is associated with the other
service.
Now the question that comes is what is the difference between the first command and the second command?
So the difference between the first command and the second command is that within the scale command.
So here we are specifying the scale.
So within this command we can specify multiple services within the same command.
So let's try that out.
So here I can say Docker service scale service zero one is equal to zero two.
Let's change it to zero three.
And now I can also specify service zero two is equal to three.
So within one command itself, I can go ahead and scale multiple services.
So this is only possible with the help of Docker service scale command.
All right, So now if you try and specify, so let's say replica is equal to four and let's try to specify
multiple services here.
And you see it is basically giving you an error.
So how it works is currently if you see you have Docker service update.
So here the usage is Docker service update, then you have to specify certain options.
So in our case the options is replicas.
For now you can only specify one service over here.
So if you have specified service zero two over here, you cannot specify any more service with this
command.
So in case if you need one command where you want to scale multiple services, then you.
Should make use of Docker service scale command.
So that's the difference between the Docker service scale and the Docker service update with respect
to scaling the swarm services.
So this is it about this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Multiple Approaches for Scaling ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Replicated vs Global Service ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Document - Global Service CLI Command ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Draining Swarm Node ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can train a node from a swarm cluster.
So let's take an example.
So currently you see that there are three nodes with the availability of active over here.
Now let's say that as part of the monthly patching lifecycle, you want to restart this specific server
so you do something like Yum y update to install the latest patches and then you want to restart the
Swarm zero three server or if you want to do some kind of a maintenance and you want to bring it down
for few hours, then what is the approach?
So in that case it is recommended that you drain the specific node so that whatever containers that
swarm might be running in this node would be switched to a different available node over here.
So let's go ahead and look into how exactly it might work.
So let's quickly do one thing.
Let's quickly create a service, I'll call it as my web server, and the replicas would be, let's give
it five and I'll start it from the Nginx image.
Great.
So now if we quickly do a Docker service PS on my web server, you will see that in total there are
five tasks which are running across various nodes over here.
So among this there are two tasks which are running in the Swarm zero three node.
So let's say that you have two tasks which are running over here and you want to restart or you want
to put this Swarm zero three server for maintenance for few hours.
So in order for you to do that, it is not really recommended to directly go ahead and stop the Docker
daemon or restart.
You can migrate all the containers which are running to a active node which you know that it is going
to run for a longer period of time and that can be achieved with the help of draining.
So let's quickly do it.
So I'll say Docker node update, you have to specify the availability.
So within the availability you have active and you have drain.
So I'll say drain here and you can specify the node name which is Swarm zero three.
All right, So now what you have told the orchestrator that this specific node might be going for maintenance
and you can go ahead and drain it.
And now if you do a Docker service, PS, my web server, you should see that the containers which were
running in the Swarm zero three, they are now shut down and a new containers have been brought up in
an alternative node.
So anytime if you increase the availability of containers.
So in this case we had increased the availability of containers to five.
So let's say we move it to ten.
So even if you move it to ten, Docker orchestrator will not create the new task within a node which
is marked as drain, it will only move it to the nodes which are part of the availability active.
So if you quickly do a Docker node ls over here, you should see that the Swarm zero three, the availability
here is drained.
So not only Docker orchestrator has removed the tasks which are running in the Swarm zero three, but
also anytime if you create new services, it will not be deployed in the swarm.
Zero three Now again, you can bring the mode of the swarm zero three from draining to active also.
So let's go a bit up.
You can change the availability from drain to active.
All right, so let's run the Docker node LS command yet again.
And now you see the availability is active.
So this is it about draining the node within the swarm cluster?
I hope you got the use case where the draining is required.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Drain CLI Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Inspecting Swarm Service and Nodes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can do a Docker inspect on the swarm services and nodes.
Now, we already know that the Docker inspect provides detailed information of the Docker objects,
so some of the Docker objects includes Docker containers.
You have Docker networks, Docker volumes.
You can even have Docker inspects on the swarm services, on the swarm nodes and many more.
So let's quickly look into the Docker inspect specifically related to the swarm services and swarm nodes.
So I'm in my Swarm zero one server.
If I quickly do a Docker service.
LS you will see that I have two services which are currently running.
Now let's take the first service.
So in order to have more information I will do a Docker service.
PS and this specify the name.
I'll say demo troubleshoot.
All right, so now you see that the current state of the tasks are in pending.
So let's say you want to see on what are the constraints that might have been applied.
So that can be seen from the Docker inspect command.
So one way is to ask the developer to share you on what is the command that he had used to create this
specific service due to which the task state are going into the pending state.
So that is the first way.
Second quick way for you to verify the constraint is through the Docker inspect command.
So you can say Docker service, inspect and give the name of the service, which is demo troubleshoot.
So here you can get the detail information related to the service.
So although this is great, but it is not quite easy for you to read.
So what you can do is you can supply with the pretty flag here and you will be presented with a much
more easier to read information.
Now, among this, if you will see here, there is one constraint which is applied.
So this is a placement constraint where the node labels region is equal to is equal to one Mumbai.
So it might happen that this one is a typo over here and due to which all the tasks within the service
are going into the pending state.
So with the help of Docker Service Inspect command, you will be able to quickly identify if there are
any placement constraints which are applied and various other factors.
So here you see the amount of replica within the service is three and you can also see any other aspects
which are being applied while creating a service.
So this is first part.
The next part is if you have the Docker nodes, you can even have run the Docker inspect here.
So I'll say Docker node inspect.
You can specify one of the node ID here and you can also specify prettier.
All right, So now you will get much more detailed information about the node.
So first is the node hostname.
You can see the joined status, the current status, the availability, the IP address of it.
It also shows you the raft status of it, the operating system platform, the architecture.
What is the amount of CPU that this specific node has?
What is the amount of memory that this specific node has?
It also shows you information related to the engine version and various others.
So with the Docker inspect command, you can really get a lot of information related to a specific Docker
object.
And specifically when you are working with swarm services and swarm nodes and specific to the troubleshooting
aspect, Docker inspect really helps here.
So that's about it for the Docker inspect, specifically for the swarm services and swarm nodes.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Inspecting Services and Nodes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Adding Network and Publishing Ports to Swarm Tasks ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can publish the posts for the task that we send to the worker
nodes via swarm.
Now, generally, whenever we start a container on a bridge network, we specify the hyphen hyphen publish,
and we specify the port mapping from the host to the container.
So how that can be achieved in swarm is something that we will look today.
So let's quickly create a service.
So I'll say Docker service, create, I'll give the name as my web server.
The replicas that we need is two and it should be launched from the Nginx image.
Great.
So now if we quickly do our Docker service LS, you should see that we have our service which is created
and if we quickly do a Docker service PS on my web server, you will see that there are two tasks running.
One is running on Swarm zero one and second is running on Swarm zero three.
So now from Swarm zero one.
So currently we are in Swarm zero one.
If I do a Docker.
PS you have that there is one container which is up and running.
So this container, since this is a nginx, it is going to listen on port 80.
However, this port 80 is not going to get binded on the host level.
So if someone from the internet wants to access the website, which is part of the Nginx container,
they will not be able to do that.
So if you quickly do something like 127001, you see it basically says connection refused.
So it is necessary that whatever service that we create, let's say we are going to create a service
based on Nginx.
We also need to make sure that the port mapping happens correctly, otherwise things will not work as
expected.
And how the port mapping can be deployed is something that we are going to look in today's video.
So let's do one thing.
So we have this service.
Let's go ahead and remove the my Web server service here.
All right.
And let's go ahead and create a new service.
This time we'll publish a port as well.
So I'll say Docker service, create.
Let's give it a name, I'll call it as my web server.
I'll say the replicas of two.
And with hyphen hyphen publish, you can specify the port which is port 80 and 80, and then you can
specify the image name which is Nginx.
Great.
So our containers are being provisioned.
So now let's quickly do a Docker service.
LS So two out of two replicas are done and if you quickly do a Docker service on my web server.
You should see that the web server is launched on Swarm zero one and Swarm zero two Node.
So now from the Swarm zero Node zero one node.
If I quickly do a Docker, PS, this is the container which got spawned and now if we quickly do a netstat
hyphen P you should see that a docker is running on port 80.
So in order to quickly verify, let's quickly do a ifconfig on zero.
I'll copy the IP address here and let's do a curl on the external IP address followed by the port and
you should see that you have the welcome to Nginx page.
Now in case if you want to try it out from my ignito mode, also if you specify port 8080 you should
see the welcome to nginx page which is up and running.
So this is it about how you can publish the port via Docker swarm for the containers that you are going
to deploy within your swarm cluster.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Publish Port at Service ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Docker Compose ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about Docker Compose.
Now the Docker compose is basically a tool used for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.
So it might happen like till time we were running a single container application.
So in production it might happen that a application might require two containers or three containers.
So in order for you to achieve that in a correct approach.
Docker compose is a tool which is extensively used.
So with Compose, we defined the requirements that we need in a Yaml file to configure the application
services.
Now, once we have defined what are the things that we need in a Yaml file we can bring or we can start
all the services with a single command which is docker compose up and we can stop all the services with
a single command which is Docker compose down.
So that's about it.
For the introduction, let's jump into practical so it becomes easier for us to understand.
Now the first thing that we need to do is we will have to install the Docker compose.
Now one important part to remember is that if you're running a mac or if you are running Docker in Windows,
you don't really need to install Docker compose.
It comes with the default Docker package.
However, if you're running Docker in Linux, you will have to install Docker Compose.
So let's quickly see that.
So within my CLI, so this is Windows.
If I do a Docker compose version, you see that I already have the Docker compose which is installed.
So however for the Linux package, let's try it out.
So this is my Linux server, I'll say Docker compose version and you will see it says that the Docker
compose is not found, so you will have to install it.
So the installation is pretty simple.
So there are two ways in which you can do that.
One is through Pip and second is by downloading the binary from GitHub.
So let's click on Linux over here.
So first is you can download it from GitHub here and the second way is to get it done via Pip.
So if you go a bit up and look into the alternative install option, you see you can even install it
with the Pip command anyways, so we'll be using the curl command here.
Let's copy this curl command and I'll paste it here.
So what it will do, it will download the Docker compose and it will put it in the usr local bin directory.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here till the Docker compose gets downloaded.
Great.
So it has been downloaded.
The next thing that you need to do is you have to set the executable bit.
So let's do that.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker compose version, you should see that it is showing you the version perfectly.
Great.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's create a new directory.
Let's call this Docker compose.
And within this directory we need to create a file.
So the file name would be docker compose dot HTML.
So within this file you can define what are the services, what are the applications that you want to
run.
So let's start.
So I'll specify the version.
So the version is three.
Then I'll specify the services within the services.
First tier would be the web server and here we specify the image as Nginx.
All right, And that's about it.
Now, in a similar way, we'll define one more tier called as database.
And here we'll make use of the image of Redis and that's about it.
So now if you do a Docker compose config, it will basically show you if your formatting is correct.
If your formatting is correct, you will see something similar to this, otherwise you will get an error.
All right.
So what this basically says that there is a web server and web server should start from an image of
Nginx and there is also a database and database should start from the image of Redis.
So this is a very simple file that we have written.
Again, this can get a little complex, but as a start we are doing it from the simplistic point of
view.
So now if you want to start your application, you can say Docker compose up and you can specify a D
so that it runs in a detached mode.
Great.
So you can avoid this specific warning message.
The reason why it is showing you is because this specific server is part of the swarm, and this is
the reason why it is giving you an error.
It's saying that instead of using Docker compose, which will only install and run the container in
this specific virtual machine, you can make use of Docker stack deploy so that it gets pushed to the
swarm cluster and it will be also be discussing about Docker stack deploy.
So anyways, so it basically says that it has created.
So now if you quickly do a Docker PS you should see that there are two containers which are up and running
here.
Now if you want to stop your application or let's say you do not really need this container, you can
say Docker compose down and this will go ahead and stop and remove the appropriate containers.
So this is how easy it is to define things within the Docker compose file.
Now again, the things that we were discussing here, this is a very simplistic approach.
You can in fact define a much more granular aspects here.
So let's specify ports here and here I'll say 80, 80 by 80.
All right, So let's quickly verify.
Great.
Everything seems to be working perfectly.
So now along with this, we have also defined the port mapping and now the host port of 8080 would be
binded to the container port of 80.
So let's quickly do a docker compose up and we'll run it in a detached mode.
And now if you quickly do a netstat hyphen LP, you should typically see that you have the Docker running
on port 8080.
And in fact if you do a curl on 127001 on 8080, you should typically see welcome to Nginx page to be
up and running.
So this is one quick example.
In fact, let's discuss one more example.
I already have the demo ready for that, so let's go a bit up and in fact, let's do one thing before
we bring one more application up with Docker Compose.
Let's bring this down.
Great.
So now let's go a bit up and we'll go to the WordPress directory.
And here also you will see that I have a Docker compose file.
So if I quickly open this up now, you'll be able to understand.
So you have the version, you have services and inside services you have a service called as DB and
it is basically taking a image of MySQL 5.7.
It has certain policies like restart always, then you have various environment variables.
Now this is as far as the database service is concerned.
Now you have one more service defined called as WordPress.
Now here you have a depends on attribute and it is dependent upon the DB service.
So first the DB will be initialized and then you will have the WordPress.
Now for the WordPress it is basically using the image of WordPress latest.
Now there is a port mapping of 8000 to 80.
You have the restart policy and you have the environment variable.
So this is a simple Docker compose file.
Let's verify whether this is perfect or not and great.
It is not really giving any error.
So let's go ahead and deploy this.
I'll say Docker compose up and I'll run it in a detached mode.
So basically what it will do is it will go ahead and configure WordPress.
So ideally, if you might have created WordPress, it really takes a little amount of time.
At least it takes 20 to 25 minutes for you to go ahead and do that.
Now with the Docker compose, all you need is a Yaml file which has all the definition and that's about
it.
So let's quickly wait for a moment.
Great.
So the creation of the WordPress and WordPress is created.
So if I do a Docker, PS, you should see that there would be two containers which are up and running.
So now from the browser, let's go ahead and see whether the WordPress is up or the Port 8000.
So before we do that, let me copy the public IP address of my VM and within my browser.
Once I paste it, you should see that I have the WordPress application which is up and running.
So this is a very easy approach to configure the applications that you would typically need.
So for your reference, what I'll do, I'll be pasting the Docker compose file for WordPress as well
as the Docker compose file that we had created earlier.
You can go ahead and try it in your workstation and explore the beauty of Docker Compose.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Docker Compose YAML ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Deploying Multi-Service Application in Swarm ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can deploy a multi service apps in swarm.
So if you have gone through the Docker compose video, you would have realized that an application can
contain multiple back end services which are required.
So let's say WordPress.
So WordPress might require a web server, it might require the actual application by itself, it might
require a database.
So with the Docker compose, we can go ahead and deploy the containers within the same host.
However, if you want to deploy it within the swarm cluster, the approach is little different.
So let's go ahead and look into how that can be done.
So as discussed, a specific web application might have multiple containers that are required as part
of the build process.
So till now, whenever we were creating a Docker service in Swarm, it was a single container image.
Now in case if you have multiple dependent sea containers, for example, WordPress, you have to deploy
it in Docker Swarm, then you can make use of the Docker Stack command.
So Docker Stack Command basically can take the Yaml file which you have written in the Docker compose
and it can deploy it within the swarm environment.
So before we go ahead and look into the practical, let's have a overview about the Docker stack.
So a stack is a group of interrelated service that shares dependencies and can be orchestrated and scaled
together.
Now as we discussed, a stack can compose of a Yaml file like the one that we were using in the Docker
compose now whatever we need.
So whenever we do a Docker service, create whatever things that we need, we can define those within
the Yaml file and we can deploy that with the help of Docker stack.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'm in one of my swarm nodes.
So here I have a simple docker compose file.
So if I quickly do a docker compose up with a detached mode, you will see that all the Docker compose
is working perfectly.
It gives you a warning saying that the Docker engine that you are using here is running in swarm mode
and the compose does not use swarm mode to deploy services to multiple nodes within the swarm.
So that basically means that whatever containers or whatever services that we have defined within the
Docker compose, it will only be part of this specific virtual machine.
It will not go to the nodes within the swarm.
And it is also showing that if you want to deploy your application across the swarm, you can make use
of Docker stack deploy.
So Docker stack deploy is something that allows us to deploy the services across the swarm.
So I'm in my Swarm zero one, which is the leader node, and if I do so, I have a simple docker compose
file.
So this is the same Yaml file that we used for the demo for our Docker compose video.
So in order to deploy this, so if we do a Docker node LS, you would see that there are three nodes
within our swarm.
So let's say that I want to deploy the services which are part of the docker compose across our swarm
cluster.
So in order to do that we need to make use of Docker stack deploy.
So through this we can go ahead and deploy the Yaml file which we have created.
So I'll say compose hyphen file, I'll say Docker, compose dot HTML and I'll call it as my demo.
All right, So now it is going ahead and creating the service both for the database as well as for the
web server.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here.
Great.
So it seems it has been done.
So let's quickly do a Docker stack PS.
Oops.
You have to also specify the name of your stack.
And now here you will see that one of the containers is running in the swarm zero two and one of them
is running in the swarm zero one.
So similarly, depending upon the requirement, you can go ahead and change the Docker compose file
and then you can deploy them with the Docker stack deploy command.
Now, in case if you want to remove the stack, you can say Docker stack, remove my demo and it will
go ahead and remove all the containers which are part of the stack.
So for the exams you should be aware about what Docker stack deploy is and what is the use case where
you use the Docker stack deploy command.
So this is it.
About this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Docker Stack CLI commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Locking Swarm Cluster ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about logging the swarm cluster.
Now, a swarm cluster can contain a lot of sensitive information.
So some of the sensitive information includes the TLS key, which is used to encrypt the communication
among the swarm nodes.
It also contains the key used to encrypt and decrypt the raft logs on the disk.
Now, the keys that we are discussing over here, if these keys are unencrypted and if your swarm is
compromised due to some reason, then the attacker will be able to catch hold of the keys in an unencrypted
form and they can get a lot of sensitive information.
And this is the reason why Docker suggests you to lock your swarm so that this situation can be ignored.
So let's quickly look into how exactly this might look like.
So I'm in my swarm zero one server, so if I quickly do a Docker node.
LS There are three nodes which are part of the swarm.
So now if I quickly go to var lib Docker and within it there are a lot of directories.
Let's go to the swarm directory and within here let's go to the certificates.
Great.
So now you see that you have the swarm node certificate, you also have the swarm node key and you also
have the swarm root CA cert.
So if you quickly do a cat on Swarm Node key, you will see that this is the key, which is the private
key and it is available in plain text.
So if the attacker gets hold of this key as well as the certificate, he will be able to decrypt the
communication as well as various raft encrypted log files.
So in order for you to avoid such situation, the Docker suggests you to go for the lock feature of
swarm cluster.
So if you quickly do a Docker swarm update hyphen hyphen help, you will see that here you have the
feature of auto lock.
And here there are two options.
One is true and second is false.
So if you have the auto lock as true, then next time when you restart your swarm, the swarm will basically
ask you for the password whenever you want to perform some kind of a operation.
So let's look into how that can be achieved.
So I'll say Docker swarm update you have auto lock is equal to true.
So now it basically says that to unlock a swarm manager after it restarts, you need to run the Docker
swarm unlock and you have to pass this specific key.
So go ahead and save this key because this key is going to be important.
So I'll save this key within my text document.
So now that the auto lock feature has now been enabled, let's go ahead and restart our Docker container.
So I'll say systemctl, restart Docker.
Great.
So once you have done that, let's quickly verify the status.
I'll say systemctl status.
Docker, The Docker is up and running now.
If I do a Docker node.
LS You see it basically gives you an error saying that error response from the daemon swarm is encrypted
and it needs to be unlocked before it can be used.
And it is also saying that you need to make use of the Docker swarm unlock command to be able to unlock
it.
So let's go ahead and run this Docker swarm, unlock command and just specify the key.
Great.
So once you have done that, if you now do a Docker node ls, you will be able to see the nodes which
are part of the swarm cluster.
Now, along with that, once you have already unlocked your swarm cluster, if you say Docker swarm,
unlock hyphen key, you will be able to retrieve the key back again.
And last but not the least, you can also rotate the key with hyphen hyphen rotate command.
So in this case you see that the key is now rotated.
So in case if you want to rotate the key, you can go ahead and rotate it.
So once you've done that, you can copy this new key and paste it within your text file.
Now make sure that you put it in some kind of a password manager.
Don't put it in a text file because again, it would be in a plain text format.
So this is it about locking the swarm cluster.
I hope at a high level overview you understood what this meant.
And with this, we'll conclude this video and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - AutoLock Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Troubleshooting Swarm Service Deployments ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll discuss about troubleshooting the service deployments.
Now, a service may be configured in such a way that no node in the swarm can run the task.
Now, in such cases, the service remains in the state of pending.
Now, there are multiple reasons why service might go into the pending state.
So if you look into the below diagram over here, you see that there are three tasks which are available.
The desired state for them is running.
However, the current state is in the pending mode.
So that means that this specific service was not able to deploy the task.
The task went into the pending state.
Now, as we have discussed that, there are multiple reasons why the task within the service might go
into the pending state.
Let's look into some of them now.
The first common reason is that if all the nodes are drained and you create a service, then it will
go into the pending state.
Unless and until a node becomes available.
Now, the second reason is that you specify a amount of memory or a CPU which is required for a specific
service.
Now, if no node in the swarm has that specific amount of memory or CPU, the service remains in the
pending state unless and until a node is available which can run that specific task.
And the third common reason is that if you have imposed some kind of a placement constraints or some
kind of a constraints here, then also the service might go into the pending state.
So let's look into this in detail.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly do a Docker service.
LS here and you have a service called as demo Troubleshoot.
So let's quickly do a Docker service, PS Demo troubleshoot.
All right, so now here you see that the current state of three tasks are pending over here.
All of them are pending.
Now, in case if someone tells you that, hey, there are some tasks which are pending, can you figure
out what might be the reason?
So in such cases you can quickly do a Docker inspect and you can take one of the IDs over here and press
enter.
Now within here, within the status column, you will see an error.
So error says that no suitable node scheduling constraints are not satisfied on three nodes.
So that basically means that there was some kind of a constraint which was applied while creating a
service.
And due to that constraint, the containers were in the pending state.
So then you can ask the respective team to show you the Docker service Create command, which they had
used to create this specific service.
And then from there you will be able to figure out the reason for that.
So in my case, what I had done was in order to run or in order for us to have this demo, what I had
done was I had created a Docker service.
The name was Demo Troubleshoot.
However, there was a constraint here and the constraint was that the replica.
So three replicas of Nginx should only run on the node which has the label of region is equal to is
equal to one Mumbai.
Now any of the node which was part of the list here, none of the nodes had this specific key value
pair.
And this is the reason why all the tasks associated with the service went into the pending state.
So this is one quick way in which you will be able to identify on why the service went into the pending
state.
So that's about it for the troubleshooting of service deployments.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Mounting Volumes via Swarm ---

Hey, Ryan, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can mount the volumes in the container through swarm.
So this is a simple command.
Let's look into this.
So you have Docker service.
Create the name of the service is my service.
We are specifying a option of mount where the type is volume source is my volume and the target is slash
my path.
So this is route, my path and we are basically launching the Nginx image.
So let's go ahead and press enter.
Great.
So it has created one of one task.
So let's look into what exactly this command has done.
So if I quickly do a Docker service, PS my service.
So our task is created in the Swarm zero two node.
So let's quickly log in to the Swarm zero two Node.
So this is the Swarm zero two node.
If I quickly do a Docker, PS This is the container which got created.
Now along with that, if you quickly do a Docker volume LS, you should see that there is one volume
which is created.
The name is my volume and this volume is mounted on the path that we have specified here, which is
route my path.
So in order to verify, let's quickly log in to the container.
I'll say Docker container, exec it, I'll specify the ID and I'll say bash.
Now here, if I do ls hyphen L on root, you will see that there is a directory of my path.
And this is basically the mount which has happened inside the container.
So let's quickly do one thing.
Let's go to my path over here and let's create a file called as touch on test dot txt.
Once done, let's come out of it.
Now.
We already know that the my path has been mounted from this specific volume.
So if we go to var lib docker volume, so you have my volume here.
We need to go under the data directory and here you should be able to see test dot txt.
So now what happens is that if something happens to the container, let's say this is an important container
and something wrong happened and it got terminated.
So even if it gets terminated, all the data that you might have if you are storing it in the My Path
directory, you will still be able to access it irrespective of the container lifecycle.
And this is the reason why it is important to have volumes specifically for the containers which are
going to store some important data.
Now, along with that, one quick thing I wanted to show you.
So if you quickly do a Docker service.
LS Now let's say that you remove the specific service.
So I'll say Docker service, remove my service.
So this is the question that might come.
So the question is, let's say that we already have a volume here and this volume got created with the
swarm.
So now what happens if the service itself gets deleted?
Will the volume still persist or not?
Let's find it out.
So if I do a Docker service, remove my service.
And now this would typically remove the task which was running in the swarm zero two.
So within the swarm zero two if I do a Docker.
PS You see the container has now been removed.
However, if you still look into the Docker volume, you see the volume still persist.
And if I do ls hyphen L, you will still be able to access the data which is part of the volume.
So this is it about the mounting volumes in the container with the help of Swarm.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Mount Volumes with Swarm ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Control Service Placement ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the control service placement.
Now, if you remember during the video of the container orchestration overview, we had taken an example
of how Amazon ECS can place the containers based on various factors like the availability zones or even
instance types.
Now, similarly, Docker Swarm also has the capability to push the task or containers on the worker
nodes depending upon the specific constraints that we can specify.
So what are those constraints?
Are the things that we are going to discuss in today's video.
So basically the swarm services provides a few different ways in which we can control the scale and
placement of services on different nodes.
So these are some of the factors based on which we can control the way in which the containers or the
tasks are being pushed.
So the first is replicated and the global services.
Now this is something that we have already discussed.
So if you do a replicated, then you have to specify the replica count.
And for global, it basically will launch that task in all the nodes which are available as part of
Swarm.
Then you can also specify the resource constraints that a container should only be launched on a specific
node based on certain resources like CPU and memory.
You also have various placement constraints where you can say that the container should only be run
on the node, which has the label of PCI underscore compliance is equal to true.
And you also have something like placement preferences where you can spread the containers based on
label.
So let's do one thing.
Let's take one of the example over here and let's look into how exactly this works so that the concept
is easier for us to understand.
So for today's video, we'll take one example here based on labels.
So I'm in my CLI and if I can quickly do a Docker node.
LS You see that there are three nodes which are available now.
Docker allows us to label each and every node which are part and depending upon the label we can have
a placement preference.
So let's say that the Swarm zero two is based on Mumbai region.
Now, Swarm zero three is based on Bangalore Region.
Now the new service that we are deploying, we want to deploy only to the nodes which are based on Bangalore
region.
So that kind of placement is something that we can specify.
So this is a very simple Docker service create command.
So let's look into it.
So we have Docker service Create, we are specifying the name of our service as my constraint.
And this is a new part where we are specifying a constraint, where the node dot labels dot region is
equal to Bangalore and we have replicas of three and the image is nginx.
So what this will do is this service will launch the task in the node where the label has the key of
region and the value of Bangalore.
So let's quickly press enter here.
Great.
So our service is deployed.
So now if you can quickly do a Docker service.
PS my constraint, you will see that all the three containers have been launched in the Swarm zero two
node.
Now we already discussed that we had a constraint where the node label should have the key of region
and the value of Bangalore.
Now the question is how do you see what is the label which is associated with the node?
So if I can quickly do a Docker node LS and let's do a Docker node inspect, specify the node ID here
and I'll press enter.
So now this will give you a great information and if you go a bit down, you should see that it has
a label and the label is the region is blah.
And there is also one label where the key is US East and the value is none.
So this is the label based on which the constraints were applied.
All right.
Now the other worker nodes does not really have this specific label, and this is the reason why the
all the three containers were launched in this specific worker node.
Great.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and remove the service.
Let's quickly verify.
Great.
So the service is removed.
So let's quickly look into how we can add a label to a specific node.
So as discussed, we have three nodes which are available.
Let's go.
Go ahead and add a label to the Node zero three.
So I'll quickly say Docker node update.
I'll say hyphen hyphen, label hyphen, add.
Then you have to specify the key.
So let's say the key is region and the value.
I'll say Mumbai, and then you have to specify the node ID here.
All right.
So now in order to verify whether the label has been successfully applied, let's inspect the node.
I'll say Docker node inspect, and we'll take the node ID and let's go a bit up.
And here within the labels, you should see that you have a label where the region is Mumbai.
So this is the label which has been applied.
Now once I've done that, let's run the same command, which is Docker service create.
So this is the command.
And here you have to specify the region as Mumbai.
All right.
So here the node dot labels remains the same.
So this part is constant.
And after this dot here, you have to specify the key and the value.
Make sure that this is is equal to is equal to.
And let's press enter.
Oops.
Let me remove the comment at the start.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker service, PS on my constraint, you will see that all the three containers
now have been launched into the node of Swarm zero three.
So this is the high level overview about the placement constraints.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Setting Constraints ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Overlay networks ---

Hey, Ron, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the overlay networks.
Now, the overlay network driver basically allows us to have a distributed network setup among multiple
Docker daemon host.
So in short overlay network allows containers connected to it to communicate securely.
So let's say that this is a swarm cluster and there are multiple nodes which are running and the containers
are in a different node.
So let's assume here that you have three containers in three different virtual machine and each virtual
machine has its own Docker daemon and they are part of the swarm cluster.
Now if a web server container of Node one wants to communicate with the web server container of Node
two, or if a web server container of node one wants to communicate with the web server container of
Node zero three, then this is not possible with the bridge or this is not possible with the host network.
So in order for the communication to happen, we need to make use of the overlay network.
So whenever you initiate a swarm, you will find that the overlay network driver has been initialized.
So let's quickly look into that.
So I'm in my CLI and let me quickly do a Docker network.
LS And here you see that there is a network which is created.
The driver here is overlay and the name here is Ingress, and the scope here is swarm.
So generally if you are going to work with Docker Enterprise, then this specific network comes by default.
And for default Docker installations, you don't really have a overlay network driver which comes.
So whenever you configure the swarm, you will see that a new overlay driver has been initiated.
Now I have two networks here with the overlay driver, so let's look into the my network here so I can
do a Docker network, inspect my network.
And here you see within the piers, you see that there are multiple piers which are part here, and
each pier has a different IP address.
So this is very similar.
Basically, we have three piers here.
And all of these three, Piers, are part of the my network based overlay driver.
So now we have three containers which are running in each of these nodes.
So in order to verify if I do a docker, PS you see that I have one container running over here.
So if you can quickly do a Docker container, inspect and paste the name of the container, you will
see that this container is part of my network, and my network in turn used to use a overlay driver.
Now this specific container has its own IP address and this is the IP address which is ten .0.0.5.
All right, so this is one node.
So currently I have logged into a second node.
Let's do a docker ps.
Here again we have a Docker container running.
Let's do a Docker network inspect.
In fact, let's do a Docker container inspect.
We'll paste the container name and here you see the IP address is ten .0.0.3.
So now let's go back to the Node one and connect to the container.
So before we do that, let's do a Docker PS so that we know the container name.
I'll copy the container name here and I'll do a bash.
So from this container, if I try to ping the container which belongs to a different server altogether.
So here the IP address of the container is ten .0.0.3.
You see that I am able to ping that container perfectly.
Now let's try to ping one more container.
So basically what we did from the container, which is in the node one, we tried to ping to the container
which is in the node two.
So now let's try to ping to the container which is sitting in the node zero three as well.
So within this node zero three, let's quickly do a Docker container inspect to find the IP address
associated with the container running.
So here the IP address is ten 004.
So from here, let's try to ping that as well.
And you see we are able to ping perfectly.
So I hope you understood the need of overlay network and also the definition, which basically says
that the overlay network driver creates a distributed network among multiple Docker Daemon hosts.
So here there are multiple Docker Daemon hosts.
You have Node one node to Node three, and it creates a distributed network so that the container between
these hosts can communicate perfectly.
So in exams you might get a question related to how can a Docker daemon across multiple hosts can communicate?
So basically how can a container which are residing across a different host can communicate, whether
it can be through bridge, it can be through host or others.
So your answer should be overlay.
So that's about it for the overlay network.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating Custom Overlay Networks for Swarm ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we look into how we can create a service where the containers are being created with
a specific network type.
So for our test purpose, we'll be making use of the overlay network and we'll also test the cross container
communication.
So from the swamp node zero one server, if I quickly do a Docker network LS, you will see that I have
one overlay network which is available.
So the network name is Ingress and the driver is overlay.
So what we'll be doing is we'll be creating one custom network with the driver of overlay.
So I'll say Docker network create, I'll specify the driver as overlay and the network name we can call
it as my network.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker network LS, you have a my network which is created and the driver here is
overlay.
Now let's go ahead and create a service.
I'll say Docker service create, I'll call it as my overlay.
And within the network you can specify the name, which is my network, I'll say replicas as three,
and I'll specify the Nginx image.
So in this case, you don't really have to worry that the my network, because we only created this
specific overlay network as my network in the Swarm zero one.
So you don't have to worry about that when you define it with the service, it will get propagated to
the worker nodes as well.
Great.
So things seems to be working perfectly.
So let's quickly verify on the two worker nodes.
So if I quickly do a Docker node LS you see that there are two nodes which are available.
So let's quickly log into the nodes and see whether the my network has been created.
So from this 102 if I quickly do a Docker network LS, you should see that a new network call as my
network has been created.
And from the swarm zero three also if I do a Docker network ls, you should see that the my network
has been created.
Great.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's do a Docker PS and this specific container.
Let's find the IP address associated with this container so I can do a Docker container inspect and
let's copy the container name.
So the IP address is ten 01.5.
Similarly from the swamp zero to node.
Let's do a Docker container inspect and find the IP address of the container.
So the IP address is ten 01.4 and from the swamp zero one node, let's connect to the container.
I'll say Docker container exec I'll specify the container name here and I'll specify the bash.
So let's quickly do an apt get update and apt get install IP utils, hyphen ping so that we have ping
installed.
Great.
So from here, let's try to ping the container which is running on swarm node zero two.
So the IP address here is ten 01.4.
So I'll say ten 01.4 and we are able to ping perfectly.
Similarly, I'll try to ping the container in node zero three and that also we are able to ping perfectly.
So this is it about how you can create a service and define the network which is associated with that
specific service.
We also learned that if you create a network here and if you create a service defining this specific
network, the network will get propagated.
So now let's go ahead and remove the service.
I'll say Docker service.
Remove.
I'll say my overlay.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker service ls, you see that the service has been removed.
So from the swamp zero two If you quickly do a Docker network LS, you should see that the my network
has been removed from here.
And from the swarm zero three Also if you do a Docker network ls, you should see that the my network
has been removed from here.
So that's about it for today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Custom Overlay Networks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Secure Overlay Networks ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about the security aspect of the overlay networks.
Now, during the introduction to Overlay Network, we already discussed that overlay networks basically
allows the containers which are distributed across multiple servers to be able to communicate among
each other.
Now, although that is good, but the problem here is the network.
So let's say you have Node zero one and Node zero two server and one of them has a container one and
you have a container two.
So overlay network allows the communication between the container one and the container two.
But the problem here is the security part.
So if in the middle so this is a network, the part from Node one to Node zero two is a network.
And if there is a malicious user who is sitting between them and if he can read the communication,
he might be able to get some sensitive info.
So this is the reason why the security aspect is important within the overlay networks.
So as we discussed that if the containers are communicating with each other, it is recommended to secure
the communication which is happening now.
This is especially important in overlay networks because the traffic will be sent over the network or
maybe even over the Internet.
Now to enable the encryption, when you create an overlay network, you have to pass the hyphen hyphen,
which is the option encrypted flag.
So this is how the command looks like.
So you have the Docker network create, you have hyphen, hyphen, opt encrypted, then you have the
driver overlay and then you have to give the overlay network name.
So this is something that you can define yourself.
So let's try this out.
So this is the command here.
So you have the Docker network create, you are passing the hyphen hyphen, opt encrypted flag.
Then you have the driver as overlay and then you are defining the overlay network name.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
And you see as the output, you got an ID, So now if you do a Docker network LS, you will see that
this is the overlay network which has been created now in exams.
It is important for you to remember on how you can supply a flag which allows the encryption of traffic
between the containers in an overlay network.
So do remember this specific flag which is hyphen hyphen, opt encrypted.
Now there are certain important pointers that you should remember.
The first is that when you enable the overlay encryption, Docker creates a IPsec tunnels between all
the nodes where the tasks are scheduled for services attached to the overlay network.
The next important part is that the tunnels also makes use of ease algorithm in GCM mode and manager
automatically rotates the key every 12 hours.
So as far as exam perspective is concerned, you don't really have to remember the GCM mode and all.
One primary thing that you have to remember is this option to create a encrypted overlay network.
Now one also important part that you should remember is that overlay network encryption is not supported
in Windows.
Now if a Windows node attempts to connect to an encrypted overlay network, no error is detected, but
the node will not be able to communicate.
So this is the high level overview about the secure overlay networks.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating Swarm Services using Templates ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about how we can create a swarm services with the help
of templates.
Now we can make use of templates while running the service, create command within the swarm.
So let's understand this with a quick example.
So let's say we are creating a service.
So you have Docker service create, we are giving it a name of demo service and within the hyphen hyphen
hostname flag we are using a certain template.
So here the template is node dot hostname, hyphen service dot name, and then we are creating the Nginx.
So this template that you see over here, this is a placeholder value now since the service is not created.
So here the service name is demo service, so the name of the service would be put in this placeholder
and the name of the node where it is being created would be placed in this placeholder.
So the hostname which is being given to the container would be the combination of the hostname of the
specific node where the service is being created and the name of the service.
So let's quickly do this with a demo so that we can understand this in a better way.
Now I'm in my CLI, so let's quickly do a Docker service, create, let's give it a name of Nginx service
and along with that we'll give it a hostname.
So I'll give it dot node dot hostname.
Then you have to add a hyphen and I can say dot service dot name and you can specify the image which
is nginx.
Great.
So it has been creating one out of one task and now if you do a docker PS you should see that there
is one container which got launched.
Now the hostname of this specific container would depend on the value that we might have placed.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a hostname here.
So currently the hostname of this specific machine is my demo.
So you have my demo and then the service name.
The service name would be Nginx service.
All right.
So this two specific placeholder will have the name of my demo and it will have the name of Nginx service.
So let's quickly verify so I can do a Docker container exec, specify the container ID and I'll do a
bash.
Now, if you do a hostname over here, you will see that the first placeholder, which is my demo,
has been appropriately assigned.
Then you have the hyphen.
So this is the hyphen here.
And then again you have a second placeholder which is service dot name and the service dot name is Nginx
service.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood the importance of having a placeholder.
Now this is quite important because if you are deploying a container to a random server now you want
to have a proper hostname to your container and in such cases you can make use of two templates to assign
a appropriate hostname.
Now do remember that this template is not just specific to the Docker service Create command.
Even if you create a normal Docker container, you can specify the templates there.
Now one of the question that comes is what are the things that you can place over here?
What are the allowed values?
Now this can be described in the upcoming slide where these are the allowed placeholder value, which
is service ID, You have service name service labels, node ID, node hostname, task ID, task name
and task slot.
Now, in the earlier command, we had added node dot hostname and service dot name.
So the node dot hostname is here and the service dot name is here.
All right.
So these are the valid placeholder values that you can associate.
And the next thing is what is the key through which you can associate.
So here we had added hostname and associated with the hostname, we had a certain placeholder templates.
Now you cannot really have the placeholder templates for everything, so there are certain flags through
which you can associate.
So the flags which support the placeholder templates are hostname you have mount and you have env.
So for these three supported flags you can have a valid placeholder templates.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Split Brain & Importance of Quorum ---

Here on.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the split brain problem and the necessity of a write
quorum.
Now, let's go ahead and understand split brain problem with an example.
So let's say that you have a cluster where there are two Web servers which are currently up within the
cluster.
Now among this one among them is a master.
So the green Web server here, this is the master and the blue one is the slave.
Now you have a centralized disk over here and Master Node is responsible for storing and accessing some
of the files from the centralized disk.
So since the VM to the web server running under the VM two is the master one, its responsibility is
to connect to the centralized storage and perform certain operations here.
Now let's assume that due to some reason, the connectivity between the web server one and the web server
two has stopped, so the network is unreachable.
However, both the web servers are up and running.
However, they are not able to inter communicate between each other.
So now what will happen is the passive web server on the left hand side, this web server will assume
that the web server, which is in the VM two.
So this web server has certain issues.
So the web server in the VM one will assume that the other web server has went down and now it will
promote itself to master and then it will connect to the centralized storage here.
Now the problem that happened is both of them are master.
They are not able to communicate with each other and both of them are trying to connect and perform
certain operations on the centralized storage.
And if both of them are doing that, the chances of data corruptions are extremely high and this is
dangerous.
So this kind of a problem is referred as the split brain problem.
Now, in order for us to go away with the split brain, there is a concept of quorum.
So having a right quorum is extremely important.
So quorum is nothing but how many servers you have within a cluster.
So currently you see there are only two servers within the cluster and due to this you have a split
brain problem.
But if you have a quorum of three, so quorum of three means there are going to be three members which
are going to be part of the cluster.
So having a correct quorum will help you prevent the split brain problem.
So let's understand this with the example here.
Now in this type of architecture, there are three members within the cluster and as expected, the
web server running in the VM.
One is the master one and the other ones are the passive ones, or I would say the child ones.
Now here everything is working correctly.
All of them are able to intercommunicate correctly and the master one has taken the lead and it is writing
to the centralized storage.
Now in the quorum type of architecture, voting is extremely important.
So let's say that each of the server which is participating within the cluster has a vote.
So you have VM one.
So web server here has vote one, you have one more vote for the VM two and you have one more vote for
the VM three.
So each and every server which is participating in the Quorum has its own vote.
Now let's assume that the web server, which is currently the master in the VM one, has the connectivity
issue.
So this specific server is not able to communicate with the VM two as well as VM three.
Now, in such cases, what will happen is this web server will determine how many votes it has.
So currently, since this server is not able to communicate to the VM two, nor it is able to communicate
with the VM three so it only has vote one and hence it will lose.
However, you have the M2 and M3 connectivity working perfectly, so both of them has higher vote because
the M2 has vote one, VM three has vote two.
So in total both of them has in total two votes.
So VM two one vote, VM three has one vote.
So total two votes.
So then this will win the right hand side part will win.
And thus since the VM one has only one vote, it will remove its connectivity from the centralized storage
here.
And the vm3.
So there will be an algorithm which will choose a new master between these two.
So let's say that the VM three has been chosen as the master.
So now this master will go ahead and connect to the centralized storage.
So this is the reason why having the right quorum is extremely important.
Now, once the connectivity between VM one to the other, VMs has been established, again, we already
know because of two votes, the VM three had taken the role of master, so then the VM one would step
down and it would act as a passive node.
Now do remember that in this type of architecture, in this type of quorum, where there are three cluster
nodes, you can have a failure of up to only one because let's say because we already discussed that
if there was a failure of one, the other two has the vote of two.
And this is the reason why they were able to choose the master.
Now, in the quorum of three, if two server went down, then again it is going to be the same issue.
So you have to make sure that the quorum is always the right one.
So few important parts to remember for the quorum.
First one is that you should always maintain an odd number of the nodes within the cluster so this can
be understood with the diagram here.
So let's understand this table.
So here you have a cluster size of one.
Now since you have one, you have majority of zero and fault tolerance of zero.
So that means if this server goes down, then the cluster goes away.
Now you also have a cluster size of two where you need a majority of two and there cannot be a fault
tolerance because we we already took an example of a split brain in a typical scenario of two servers
here.
So if one server due to some reason there is a network connectivity issue between both of these servers,
then that can create an issue.
Now, for the example of cluster size of three, you need the majority of two and you can have one server
down at a moment of time.
This also we understood here that if there are three servers here and if one server is not able to connect
to the other two, then the other two can take the majority because they have the vote of two over here.
And this specific server has only one vote.
And this is the reason why it can disconnect itself to the centralized storage.
So for the quorum of three, for the cluster size of three, the majority of two servers are needed
all the time.
And this is what we can see over here.
The majority of two servers are needed at all the time and up to one server failure can be sustained
and same goes for four, five, six and seven.
So always remember you should have an odd number whenever you are creating a cluster.
So that's the high level overview about the split brain and also about the quorum.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- High Availability of Swarm Manager Nodes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the high availability with respect to the swarm manager
nodes.
Now, the manager nodes are basically responsible for handling the cluster management task.
So as of now, what we had been doing was we had created one manager node and there were multiple worker
nodes.
Now the problem with this approach is that if this manager node goes down, then all of the cluster
management operation will not work.
So for example, let's say that you have one manager node, it is connected to two worker and this manager
node has stopped working.
And tomorrow you have to scale up your service because a traffic is going to increase a lot.
So in that case, since the manager node is down, you will not be able to perform the scale up service
or scale down service or any cluster management service with the swarm.
And this is the reason why it is very important that you have multiple manager nodes for high availability.
Now the manager nodes within the swarm has a lot of responsibility.
Now some of these include the maintaining of cluster state.
It includes scheduling of services, it includes serving swarm mode, Http API endpoints.
Now, with the help of raft implementation, the manager maintains a consistent internal state of the
entire swarm and all the services running on it.
So if you see over here, you have the internal distribution state store.
Now this is achieved with the help of raft implementation.
Now again, for the exam perspective, you will not be challenged anything with the help of how you
can implement Raft.
It's just that at a high level overview you should know that raft is basically used for maintaining
a consistent internal state.
Now coming back to high availability because here we were discussing that high availability is important.
Now the question is how you can achieve high availability.
So that is something that we'll be discussing at the later stage of the video.
However, do remember that swarm comes with its own fault tolerant feature.
So this is something that you can go ahead and configure.
Now, as we were discussing during the video of Split Brain and Quorum, Doctor recommends you to implement
an odd number of nodes according to your organization's high availability requirement.
Now, do remember here that this is a formula that you should remember that an end manager cluster tolerates
the loss of, at most n minus one by two managers.
So let's say that you have the total of three managers.
So three minus one is equal to two.
Two by two is one.
So if you have total of three managers, then it can tolerate a loss of up to one manager node.
So this is the formula that you can use.
So if I can quickly open a new slide.
So this is part of the quorum.
So if you will see if you have a cluster size of three, then you can have up to one node failure.
You cannot have something more than that.
And this is derived from the formula here, which is n minus one by two.
So let's do one thing.
Let me actually put it within the text document and let's calculate.
So for three cluster nodes you have n So n here is basically determines the number of nodes.
All right.
So for three cluster node n minus one, so is equal to three, minus one is two and then you divide
two by two.
So now you divide two by two is equal to one.
So you can have a maximum of one node failure for three cluster nodes.
So in case of even cluster nodes here, let's say we have four cluster nodes.
So now four minus one is equal to three, and now three divided by two is equal to 1.5.
So now the question is how will this work?
So now you have to round up to the lowest figure.
So 1.5, so you round it up to one, which is the lowest one.
So the four cluster node can support failure of one node.
So if you look into the diagram here, so four can support the failure of up to one node.
So this is the formula that is important for you to remember, both for the real world as well as for
the exams.
So now let's do one thing.
What I have is I have three servers which are.
Created.
The first server is called a swarm manager zero one second is a swarm manager zero two and third is
a swarm manager.
Zero three And in today's practical, we'll look into how we can have the high availability between
multiple manager nodes.
Now, I already have Docker installed in all of these servers, so let's do one thing.
Let's quickly do a Docker swarm in it.
So this will give a little warning message saying that you have to advertise the address because there
are multiple address.
One is public as well as private.
So let's advertise the public address here.
I'll use the public address.
Great.
So now it has given a message.
Basically, this message has the token for the worker nodes.
So this specific thing is something that we were using in the previous videos.
So when you run this command, any node in which you run this command will act as a worker node.
However, for our practical, we want the node to be the manager node.
And this is the reason why you should read the last line here, which states that to add a manager node
to this swarm, run the Docker swarm, join token manager command so you have to run this within the
current node itself.
So basically as of now, since you only have one node here and you have initialized this node as the
swarm, this will act as the manager.
So this acts as a leader.
So if you want other nodes also to be part of the swarm manager for high availability, you can run
the command which is mentioned over here.
So let me copy this up and I'll paste it.
So now this will give you a token which is explicitly for the manager nodes.
So let's copy this up and you should run this token in the manager node.
Do remember that the token of the manager node and that of the worker node is different.
So if you want to verify.
So Manager Node has a token which ends with 190 and if you go a bit up, the worker node has the token
which ends with B 36.
So both of them are a different token altogether.
So I'll copy this token and I'll run it in the swarm Manager Node zero two.
Great.
So you see it states that this node has joined Swarm as a manager.
Now if you do a Docker node LS, you will see that there are two nodes which are available now.
We were discussing during the video of Quorum, so we were discussing about the split brain kind of
a problem.
So in this case we have only two nodes.
All right, So there are only two nodes which are currently available.
Oops.
So what happens if one of the node goes down?
Let's try it out.
So let's bring down the manager Node zero one.
I'll say systemctl.
Stop Docker.
All right, so this node has gone down.
So let's see on how Node zero two behaves.
And you see it basically gave an error which states that deadline exceeded context, deadline exceeded.
And basically if you run it again, it says you that the swarm does not have a leader.
All right.
So basically it is saying that make sure more than half of the managers are online.
And this is the reason why you should make sure that you understand this formula.
And whenever you are designing a cluster, always design it in such a way.
So currently we have designed a cluster with the cluster size of two.
And in this kind of approach you cannot have any fault tolerance.
So that means that even if one server goes down, then it's over.
So this is the reason why you should always have an odd number.
So let's do one thing.
Let's bring back the node.
Great.
So now the node is up.
So now if you run the command, you see that everything is working perfectly.
So now let's do one thing, let's add one more manager node within our cluster.
So this is the third node which is called as the Swarm Manager.
Zero three Let me run the Docker swarm, join command here and it states that this node has joined as
a swarm manager.
So within the swarm manager zero one Anyways, you can run it in any of the manager node if you do a
Docker node LS, you will see that there are three manager nodes which are currently available, and
among this one is acting as a leader.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's stop this node yet again, or let's do one thing.
Let's stop the leader node altogether.
So the leader node is the swarm zero two.
So I'll say systemctl, stop Docker.
All right, so now let's see what happens.
So from the Swamp zero three, let's do a Docker node.
LS And now you will see that the second node, which was acting as a leader earlier, it is unreachable.
And now the Swarm zero three has the status of leader.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood on why it is important to have a proper cluster size.
So make sure you have an odd number.
Now again, Docker recommends a maximum cluster size of seven.
Now you can go beyond seven as well.
But the problem that will happen is the performance will degrade.
So basically the more the number of manager nodes they have to intercommunicate also.
So if you have a lot of manager nodes, you will have a performance impact.
So maximum of seven manager node is something which Docker recommends.
So that's about it for today's video.
I hope this video has been useful for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Running Manager-Only nodes in Swarm ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will look into how we can run the manager only nodes.
Now, the challenge here is that whenever you create a swarm by default, the service, let's say that
you have created a service.
Now the containers or the tasks which are being part of the service will also run within the manager
node.
So let's figure it out on what do I mean by that?
So I'll quickly do a docker swarm init.
So as usual it will give an error which is to advertise the IP address.
I'll use this one and I'll copy the public IP.
Great.
So it has given us the swarm token.
So this is for the worker node.
Now I'll copy this token up and I have one more server which is acting as a worker node.
I'll paste the token here.
Great.
So this specific node has joined the swarm as a worker.
Now if you do a Docker node ls, you will see that you have one leader node.
So this leader node acts as a manager node and you have one worker node.
Now let's go ahead and create a new service.
So I'll quickly say Docker service, create name, I'll call it as web server replicas.
Let me give it as three and I'll launch it from the Nginx image.
So total of three tasks would be created and each task would be associated with containers.
So total of three containers would be created.
Great.
So the task has been created.
Now, if I can quickly do a Docker service, PS web server.
So you see one of the container is in swarm manager zero one second is in worker zero one and third
is in swarm Manager zero one So if I can quickly do a Docker.
PS you should see that there are two containers altogether now, although this seems to be fine, but
this is not a recommended approach because the manager node should only be performing the manager related
functionality.
Now by default, the manager node also acts as a worker node, and this is the reason why you see the
task has been created within the manager node as well.
Now in case if you want to make sure that the manager node acts as a manager node and it does not act
as a worker node, then you can drain this specific manager node.
So you can quickly do a Docker node update.
So availability here would be drain and you will have to specify the node ID.
So if I can quickly do a Docker node.
LS So this is the node ID associated with the current node, so let me copy this ID.
Great.
So this node has been drained now.
So if you do a Docker PS, you will see both of the containers have went away and now if you do a Docker
service, PS, Nginx.
Oops.
It the name of the service was Web Server.
So now you see all of the tasks or I would say all of the containers are now running in the worker.
Zero one.
So if you want to verify if I do a Docker PS, you should see all the three containers are now running
in the worker zero one node.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood on why you should not be running the containers within
the manager node because Manager Node by itself has a lot of responsibilities and in turn if you have
launched a lot of containers within the manager node, that means the container would consume CPU,
it would consume memory, it would consume IO.
And in such cases where if containers of your application are consuming a lot of CPU and memory, then
the enough required memory or CPU might not be assigned for the management task which the manager node
would typically do.
So this is the reason why you should always drain the manager node so that the task does not really
get created here.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Recover from losing the quorum ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how we can recover from a lost quorum.
So let's say that there are three members within a cluster.
Now, we already know that for the cluster size of three, we can accept a maximum of one server going
down.
So what happens if two server goes down?
And we'll also look into how we can recover in case the quorum is lost.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
Now for our current architecture, what I have done is we have two nodes within the swarm cluster.
So I have intentionally added two nodes here and one is going to be the worker node.
So if you look into the Quorum, when you have a cluster size of two, there cannot be any server which
can go down.
All right?
So even if one server goes down, then the overall quorum is lost.
So we'll look into how we can deal with such scenarios.
So in case you have a cluster size of three, then if two server goes down and only one server is up.
So how you can overcome in such scenarios as the aspects that we are going to look today.
So let's do one thing, let's do a Docker node.
LS So this is our current architecture where you have one node here which is acting as a leader node.
You have one more node here which is part of the cluster.
So both of them would act as a manager and the third node here will act as a worker node.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create a service.
So I'll say Docker service, create, let's call it as web server.
I'll have the replicas of three and I'll start it from the Nginx image.
Now, before we do that, make sure that whatever nodes that you have, you drain the nodes so that
the node does not act as a worker node.
So basically manager node should not act as a worker node.
So I'll say docker node update, I'll say availability of drain and we need to have the node ID.
So in my case, the node ID would be NPI.
Great.
So let's run the same command in the second manager node.
So let's find the node ID as well.
So the node ID is BK.
So basically if you see if you get a little confused, this star over here, this basically signifies
that this is the current node from which you have run this command.
So I'll copy the node ID.
Great.
So both of these nodes are currently drained.
So now let's go ahead and create the service.
So the same command, I'll just run it.
Great.
So the service has been converged.
So if you can quickly do a Docker service, PS web server, you should see that all the three tasks
should be created in the worker.
Zero one So this is the expected output.
Now since we have the cluster size of two, what happens if the quorum is lost?
What happens if one of the server goes down?
Let's find it out.
So I'll stop the current server which is acting as a leader.
So as a systemctl stop Docker.
All right, now let's see what happens.
So from the second note which acted as a manager note, however, that was not the leader one.
If you do a Docker node LS and you see it basically is showing you deadline exceeded.
And if you run this again, it basically says that the swarm does not have any leader.
Now this is expected.
Now, you might ask why can't this node become the manager by itself?
Now, if this becomes the manager, then again, split brain kind of a scenario will happen.
So this is the reason why this does not become a manager and this is the reason why it is recommended
that you have a proper cluster size.
So now the question comes is how you can recover from it.
Now, in case you are curious on what would happen to the containers which were running in the worker
node, the containers would continue to work perfectly.
Nothing will affect that.
But now in case if let's say you want to scale this up from three containers, if you want to launch
to five containers or you want to scale this down from 3 to 1, so all of those cluster management or
service related operations will be halted because our current swarm state is not sufficient.
So now the question that comes is what are the steps that you need to take in order to overcome this
kind of a scenario where the quorum is lost.
Now, one of the easy answers that you might say is that you can simply start the swarm manager zero
one node altogether.
So because we had stopped the Docker there.
So first question is, okay, you can just start the docker there and everything is fine.
Well, that is the easy way.
Now what would happen if that server terminated altogether?
So that server is not booting altogether?
There are some kernel issues due to which it is not booting up.
So now what will you do in such cases?
So in such cases what Docker recommends you to do is to initialize the swarm cluster in the running
node.
So let's try that out.
So I'll say Docker swarm init, I'll say force new cluster.
So this force, new cluster is something that you will have to put and you will also have to put the
advertise addr.
So for this I'll have to find the IP address which is public.
So I say 206.189.139.211
followed by the port.
Great.
So this has initialized the new cluster.
So now if you do a Docker service LS, you will see that your service has been listed.
So these are all the nodes.
Now if you quickly do a Docker service PS on web server.
You will see that it is also showing you in which worker nodes the containers are running.
Now the question comes is how did my swarm manager zero to able to recover all this?
And the answer to that lies in the internal distributed state store.
Now, we already have discussed that whatever managers which are participating within the cluster,
they have the internal distributed state.
So with the help of raft.
So the manager zero two also had this specific data and this is the reason why it was able to recover.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood on the steps which are required in case the quorum
is lost and you want to perform certain operations within the cluster.
Now, since all of these are listed, you will be able to scale up, scale down and run whatever commands
that swarm would support.
So that's about it for today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Forcing New Cluster ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Docker System Commands ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about some of the specific Docker system based commands.
Now, understanding certain child commands of Docker system is important not only for the daily use
but also for the examination perspective.
Now, one of the commands that we already know is the Docker info command.
Now, as we have discussed that Docker is recategorizing all the commands in a much more efficient way.
So Docker info has been recategorized as Docker system info.
Now again, both of them would work perfectly in the future releases as well, so let's try it out.
So when you do a Docker info here, you basically get all the information related to your Docker specific
configuration.
Now along with that, even if you do a Docker system info command, you see you will get the exact same
output.
So this is what the Docker system info command is all about.
Now here the Docker system events command proves to be very useful because it gives you a real time
events from your server.
Now what are the events that a Docker system event command can give you?
Let's go a bit down now, a specific container.
So these are the event types associated with the container.
So anytime a attach happens, a commit happens.
Copy, create, destroy, detach, die, etcetera.
So all of these are the events which are basically reported by the containers.
Now, if you talk about images, these are the events which are generated by the images like delete,
import, load, pull, etcetera.
Now for plug ins, also you have certain events for volumes.
Also you have events for networks, also you have events and for the daemon also you have events.
So there are a lot of events that are generated.
Now, let's say that you want to run some kind of automation where anytime a which is out of memory
happens or your system, you want to get an alert.
So you have to capture these specific events in order for alert to happen.
So in order for you to capture, you can run the Docker System events command.
So let's quickly look into this.
So basically I have two command prompts which are currently running.
So what we'll do is we'll look into how exactly the events gets generated.
So within the right hand window, I'll run the Docker System Events command.
And currently you see there are no real time events which are generated.
So let's go ahead and perform certain activity specific to containers.
Now we have seen that the events can be generated for various aspects like containers, images, volumes,
networks, etcetera.
So for our demo purpose, we'll go ahead and perform certain activity on the container.
So currently you see that there are three containers which are up and running.
Let's go ahead and stop one of the container.
All right, so now.
If you look into the events here.
You see, multiple events have been generated.
So you have the kill event event, you have the die event, and also you have the network disconnect
event and you have the container stop event.
So from these events you can so let's say you have log monitoring systems like Splunk, ET cetera.
You can monitor these events and any time a container gets stopped, you can create an alert or anything
similar to this.
So, for example, anytime a volume is removed, then you should get an alert.
So various kind of possibilities can be achieved with the help of Docker System Events command.
Now with the Docker System Events Command, you can even scan for events which had occurred.
So you can say since you can say 2019, say zero three slash 28.
So now you will receive all the events which have been generated since the 28th of March 2019.
So this is also one of the ways through which you can go ahead and scan for the events.
Now the next thing that is important is the Docker system DF command.
So when you run this command, basically Docker will give you a lot of information.
So first is the size of the images, which is 4.49 GB in my case.
So I guess I'll have to remove a lot of images.
So anyways, this is my workstation.
So among this reclaimable is 2.75.
That means that there are a lot of images which are present and not all of them has a associated containers.
So you have this much amount of reclaimable image.
Then it also gives you the disk specific information related to the containers.
It gives you information related to the local volumes and also the build cache.
So this is important.
You might get a question like how can you go ahead and see the amount of disk space related information
in a specific host so that can be achieved with the help of Docker system DF command.
So that's the high level overview about the Docker system commands.
Two of the major ones that we understood today is the Docker system events and the Docker system.
DF We already have seen a Docker info.
However, in today's video we also saw that it can be referred with the help of Docker System Info command.
So that's about it for today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Note - Kubernetes Series ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Kubernetes - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the introductory video to Kubernetes.
Now, before we proceed further, one thing that I wanted to share is that personally, I have used
a wide range of container orchestration tools that are available in the industry.
It can be Docker Swarm, it can be Amazon, EKS and various others that are available.
But by far one of the best ones that is available in the industry is Kubernetes.
So we are going to discuss about Kubernetes in great detail step by step.
So with this base set let's go ahead and understand the basics of Kubernetes.
Now at a high level overview.
One point to note is that Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration engine developed by Google.
So although it was originally designed by Google, but now it is maintained by CNCF, which is the cloud
native computing Foundation.
Now with this base set, let's go ahead and look into the architecture of Kubernetes at an overview.
There are two important components of the Kubernetes cluster.
First, very important one is the control plane.
And the second one is the worker nodes.
Now control plane is the actual Kubernetes cluster.
So all of the main components that are part of Kubernetes, they are referred to as the control plane.
And the worker nodes that you see on the right.
These are the actual servers where the container applications run.
All right.
So let's also look into the workflow at a high level overview.
So discussing about the workflow the user communicates to the control plane and provides the necessary
instruction to run the containerized applications.
For example you have a user user will have some requirements.
For example user might want to run two containers of nginx.
Or user might want to run an application container, but not on the smaller server on the largest server
that is available here.
So all of these requirements, the user will submit it to the control plane, which is the main Kubernetes
master node.
Control plane will interpret the requirement, and it will go ahead and launch the appropriate container
in the nodes that are available as part of the overall cluster.
All right.
So this is a very basic high level workflow.
Now before we proceed further, let me also quickly show you on how exactly it looks like so that things
are much more clear.
So within one of the cloud providers I have a Kubernetes cluster that is running.
So if you see this is the main Kubernetes cluster.
So when we discuss about Kubernetes it is primarily the control plane.
And also the associated worker nodes where the control plane can assign the containers to.
So if I quickly open this let's look into the worker nodes as well.
You see there are certain worker nodes that are running.
And these are the nodes where the containers will be assigned to.
So let's also go ahead and look into it from the GUI perspective.
So this is a GUI associated with Kubernetes which gives you a basic overview on what exactly is running
in Kubernetes.
Because it can happen that there are tens of thousands of containers that are running, and various
other things are set as part of Kubernetes cluster.
So if you have a GUI, it becomes much more easier for you to go through.
So if you currently see as part of this Kubernetes that is available, there are in total of three pods.
So pods are something similar to the concept of containers.
So you can consider that there are three containers that are running as part of the Kubernetes environment.
Now if you'll open this it will give you details associated with it.
For example, it gives you the IP address associated with it and various other details related to it.
Along with that, one more thing that I wanted to show you.
In fact, let's go a bit down when you explore nodes.
So as we are seeing that there are a total of two nodes that are available as of now.
So this is similar to the diagram where you have one node and you have two node, you have one node
and two node.
And it also shows you the overall utilization.
For example, if I open up one of the node, it gives you great detail related to the allocation at
a CPU level, at a memory level, and all of the important things.
It is also showing you what are the containers or what are the pods that are running as part of this
node.
For example, as we are discussing that user when he submits the requirement to Kubernetes, stating
that I want to run two containers of nginx.
Now Kubernetes has that intelligence to determine which will be the appropriate server in which the
containers can run.
And you can also see.
So when you open up the appropriate node, you can also see what are the pods or what are the containers
that are actually running on this specific server.
So let's do one thing.
We are going to take a simple example just for this demo where at an overview, we want to run one container
of Apache as part of our Kubernetes cluster.
So currently my local workstation is associated with Kubernetes cluster.
So if I just do cube CTL get nodes.
Now again note that this is a demo video.
I just wanted to show you the basic.
Now if you see as we are discussing, even in the guy, we saw that in total there are two nodes that
are available.
And when you instruct Kubernetes that I want to run a specific container, Kubernetes can select one
of the node based on the scheduling constraints.
So let's take an example here.
So I'll go ahead and I'll run a command which basically will launch a container based on the Apache
image.
Let's go ahead and press enter.
And it says created.
Now note that currently I am not logged in to the Kubernetes server.
For example, currently when I submit a requirement to the control plane, you do not need to log in
to the control plane.
Instead, you need to have the address of the control plane along with the authentication credentials,
and then you submit the request to the control plane address, whatever URL is available along with
the authentication to submit the overall request.
So at this stage, this is the requirement that we have given to Kubernetes stating that I want to create
a container based on the Apache image.
Now if you run the kubectl get pods command.
Now again, at this stage you don't really need to know the commands, just understand it at a high
level overview.
So you see that we have one pod or one container that is running over here.
It was just started 67 seconds back and it is in the ready status.
Now you might also wonder in which worker node is this container running.
So let's also try and find it out.
So if I go to node let's open up one of the nodes.
Let's see if the Apache is running there.
And in fact yes it is.
So this specific container is running on the second node that we see over here.
Similar to this you can also have wide range of requirements.
For example, you can say that I want to run a container but not in some random worker node, only in
a worker node that has minimum of four GB Ram available and certain amount of CPU capacity that is available.
So all of those scheduling related constraints also you can set as part of your requirement.
All right.
So at a high level overview, I hope with this you understood what Kubernetes allows us to do.
Now, the thing that we discussed as part of today's demo is a very, very basic example.
Kubernetes has a lot of interesting features that are very useful from the production environment perspective.
All right.
So at a high level overview, note that Kubernetes provides a lot of features and is designed on the
same principle that allows Google to run billions of containers a week.
In fact, I have taken this line directly from the official Kubernetes documentation.
So here you see it states production grade container orchestration.
And within here under the planet scale, it says that design on the same principle that allows Google
to run billions of containers a week.
And this is truly amazing.
And one thing that I can say is, yes, Kubernetes can scale very, very well.
However, when you discuss about such a large scale, you should also have that level of expertise into
Kubernetes to create and manage the overall environment.
Now, when we discuss about some of the popular Kubernetes features, one of the very important one
is related to the pod auto scaling.
So let's say that you have certain containers that are running that can serve the base traffic, but
you have a holiday season coming and suddenly you got a spike in traffic.
So Kubernetes can actually scale in or scale out your containers based on the overall traffic, which
is very interesting feature, and a lot of organization makes use of that.
Kubernetes also supports service discovery as well as load balancing.
It supports self-healing of containers.
It supports secret management, automated rollouts and rollbacks, and various others.
Now again, at this stage, we wanted to keep it very simple, where we discuss at a high level overview
on what Kubernetes allows us to do, and in the upcoming videos, we are going to explore some of the
very important features of Kubernetes in great detail, so that you can master this specific tool from
the production environment perspective.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Installation Options for Kubernetes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into the installation.
Options for Kubernetes.
Now, one of the best ways in which you can learn Kubernetes is to do.
Each and every thing practically.
And this is very important and throughout the course, that is something that we target.
So let's look into the installation options.
So there are multiple ways to get started with having a fully functional Kubernetes environment.
First is you make use of a managed Kubernetes service, which is generally offered by various cloud
providers.
You can also make use of Minikube to have a fully functional Kubernetes in a local setup.
And third is you can install and configure Kubernetes manually, which is also referred as the hardware.
So Kubernetes by itself has multiple components.
So when you are doing things manually like you have to configure each and every components, you have
to configure the connectivity between each one of them.
So this is one of the approaches that you will take once you understand Kubernetes pretty well.
All right.
So this is one of the like the last thing that you will be taking up.
So let's look into each one of these approaches.
Now, the first one is the managed Kubernetes service.
So various cloud providers like you have you have IBM, you have Google and others, they give you a
managed Kubernetes cluster here.
And this is quite useful because you allow the cloud providers to take care of the entire Kubernetes
cluster.
As a organization, you do not have the responsibility of managing that.
And this is great.
I'll show you one of the real world use case, because in one of the organization that I have been working
with, they were managing their own Kubernetes cluster.
And at one point of time, what happened was the Kubernetes cluster went down and the entire website
was down for three days.
So this is one of the reasons why you will see that most of the organizations, they do not manage Kubernetes
by themselves.
They make use of managed Kubernetes service.
So this is one of the easiest approach that you can take off.
Let me quickly show you a few things here.
So as we were discussing that, there are various cloud providers, which gives you Kubernetes managed
service.
So one among them is Digitalocean.
One of the things that I love about Digitalocean Kubernetes service is that it is completely free and
managed, so you don't really have to worry about anything here.
Digitalocean takes care of everything.
Then you also have the Amazon Elastic Kubernetes service here.
So in this you have to pay for the Kubernetes cluster.
This is not free, so you have to pay for it.
Definitely this is managed so you don't really have to worry about it, but you pay for the Kubernetes
service here.
So one of the advantages of managed Kubernetes service.
So let's say you are learning Kubernetes the first time you don't really want to do things hardware,
you want to keep things simple.
So you use managed Kubernetes service, you learn Kubernetes, you learn various commands that you can
run against Kubernetes, various features.
And once you are comfortable with Kubernetes, then at the last you can go ahead and configure your
own Kubernetes cluster.
But during the start, while you are learning, making use of managed Kubernetes is extremely important
and this will accelerate your learning.
All right.
So that's the managed Kubernetes service.
Then you have second option, which is Mini Cube.
So Mini Cube is basically a tool that makes it easy to run Kubernetes locally.
So Mini Cube basically runs on a single node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine on your laptop.
For users who are planning to try out Kubernetes or develop things during the development environment.
So a lot of users also make use of Mini Cube.
Great thing about Mini Cube is that you can install it like within your Mac, you can install it within
your windows and you have a single node Kubernetes cluster.
So this also is quite good, but you will not be able to do each and everything within a single node.
Kubernetes cluster.
So that's one of the disadvantages.
But once you learn each and everything for Kubernetes and then locally, if you want to try things out
quickly, Mini Cube is a great approach here.
The third is the hardware where you install and configure Kubernetes manually.
So as we are discussing that, Kubernetes has multiple components within its architecture.
So when you talk about Kubernetes Master, so within the Master you have various components, like you
have controller manager, you have cloud controller manager, you have the API server, you have the
Etcd, you have the scheduler.
So when you do things manually, the hardware, you configure each and every component manually.
You look into the interconnectivity and various other things.
So this is the professional approach once you understand Kubernetes very well.
So this is the third approach.
So generally whenever you're configuring Kubernetes, there are few important things that you need to
know.
First is you have to install the kubectl.
So kubectl is basically the client side because during the Kubernetes video we were looking there that
there are multiple approaches in which you can talk to Kubernetes cluster like you can do it via GUI,
you can do it via CLI and others.
So Kubectl is one of the command line tools for Kubernetes.
So if you're from the background, this is something like the AWS CLI, then you have the Kubernetes
master by itself.
So this is the entire Kubernetes cluster that you will need.
And the third is the worker node agents.
So worker node agents are basically the agents that sits within your worker nodes.
So you have various agents like Kubelet, you have Kube proxy that you need to configure in each and
every agent.
So these are the three things that are needed in a typical Kubernetes setup.
Now let's look into what are the things that you have to configure in each of the three approaches that
we were discussing.
So for the hardware, the very first thing that you have to configure is the Kubernetes master.
Now, we were discussing here that Kubernetes master is not a single component.
It in turn has multiple components here, and we'll be discussing in great detail about each and every
component in the upcoming videos.
But do remember that in the hardware you will have to configure all the components associated with Kubernetes
Master.
Now, once you have the Kubernetes master up and running, definitely within the worker node.
Also you will need to have the components like we were discussing that worker nodes needs to have Kubelet.
You have Kube proxy, so you also have to configure them within the worker nodes and interconnect it
with the Kubernetes master.
And the third is the CLI.
This is an example.
So here you need to configure the kubectl because ultimately once your Kubernetes master and the worker
node is up and running, you have to send your.
Commands to the Kubernetes master and you have to configure the CLI, which is kubectl in this case.
So let's look into the components to be configured when you are using managed service.
So in managed service, all you have to do is you have to download the kubectl and that's about it.
So the managed service typically will take care of the Kubernetes master.
They'll also take care of the worker node.
So you don't really have to configure the agents within the worker node.
The managed service will do do it for you.
So this is very simple.
All you do is you download the CLI within your laptop and you connect it with the Kubernetes master
and that's about it.
You have the Kubernetes things running.
So now you can quickly do the practical and start learning.
So this is the second approach.
Now in the third approach of Minikube, Minikube will take care of the Kubernetes master, also the
worker node, which is basically the same workstation where the master is configured.
And then you have to configure the kubectl.
Now one of the disadvantages, as we were discussing about the Minikube is that IT provisions a single
node cluster.
So for a lot of practical minikube is something which might not really help here, but this is something
that you will be able to do all the basic things for.
So coming back to the installation methods throughout the course as the initials.
So in this section we'll be focusing on using the managed Kubernetes service.
We'll be focusing on Digitalocean because it provides free one and we'll also explore the Minikube version.
However, throughout the course, our target would be using the managed Kubernetes service so that we
can quickly learn things.
And once we learn things pretty well, then we can target the hardware here.
So this first option is the primary one that we'll be using throughout the course.
Now you can also I would really encourage you try the first option.
We have a practical for this as well.
Try the first option.
This will really help you get things up pretty fast and you'll be able to learn things as well.
So that's the high level overview about the installation options.
Now do remember that we just discussed the three installation options and there are multiple options
which are available.
There are a lot of them in which you will be able to configure the Kubernetes master.
However, these are the three options.
That would be the choice throughout the course.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Using Managed Kubernetes Service from CSP ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll go ahead and configure our first Kubernetes cluster.
Now, the approach that we'll be using for today's video is to make use of a managed Kubernetes service
offering.
Now, as we know that there are multiple providers like AWS, IBM, GCP, that provides a managed Kubernetes
cluster offering.
And this is very important specifically if you have started to learn Kubernetes.
Now when we are discussing about the Amazon Eks, this is a great offering for a managed Kubernetes
cluster and a lot of organizations are using it.
However, the only downside is that it is a little expensive.
So here you see, you have to pay a $0.10 per hour for a cluster that you create.
So in fact this is much more cheaper.
Earlier it used to be around $0.20 an hour.
So although this is not very expensive for organization, but for individual learners, this will prove
to be expensive because if you run it for a month, it will cost you somewhere around 72 to 75 USD per
month.
So this is not our preferred approach here.
The preferred approach that we'll be using throughout the course would be the Digitalocean based Kubernetes
cluster.
Now I have been using Digitalocean since the last 5 to 6 years and it is a great service provider and
there are a lot of good offerings at a very reasonable cost.
Now the focus for today's video is Kubernetes.
Now one of the great things about the managed Kubernetes cluster in Digitalocean, you see it is free
control plane.
Now, when you discuss about the architecture of Kubernetes, there are three primary components.
One is the CLI.
So CLI is something that you will be installing it in your laptop.
Then you have a Kubernetes master.
So this Kubernetes master is what is referred as a control plane.
And here you see the Kubernetes master in Digital Ocean is completely free.
However, the Amazon ECS offering, which is $0.10 per hour that we are discussing, again, it refers
to the Kubernetes master.
So in AWS it costs somewhere around $72 per month.
In Digital Ocean it is completely free.
So this is one of the reason why we will be using Digital Ocean as our primary choice.
Now, one important part to note, even in the architecture, as we were discussing, that there are
three components.
You have CLI, Kubernetes master and worker node.
All right, so you have the CLI, Kubernetes master and worker node CLI will be free because you'll
be installing it in your laptop.
So not much to worry.
Kubernetes master is something that will cost, but with the help of Digitalocean, the cost can be
eliminated here.
And the third one is the worker node agent.
Worker node agent is where your application will be running.
So worker node agent is charged in Digitalocean, so it is even charged in Amazon ECS.
But so if you see the worker node agent starts with around $10 per month.
But one of the great things that I like about Digitalocean is that they provide many coupon codes here.
So for example, if you sign up with a coupon code, you will get around $100 of credit, which you
can use over 60 days.
And this is really great for learners.
In fact, I have a colleague, he signed up in Digitalocean using some of the referral codes over the
Internet, and he got a credit and he completely, thoroughly learned Kubernetes launching multiple
servers, multiple Kubernetes cluster.
And at the end of the month, his bill was zero.
So everything was utilized with the credit offering that was being provided.
So this is something that you can also make use of.
Again, this is not an advertising for Digitalocean, it's just that it's a great offering for cloud
service provider and this is the reason why I'll be using that.
So what I'll do after the end of the video, I'll be sharing the referral link which you can make use
of and you will get the credit to get started.
And in case if your organization is giving you some testing playground based on AWS, you can also make
use of other offerings for your testing purpose.
But the steps would differ a bit.
Now, one more thing that I would like to clarify is that the Amazon ECS and the Digitalocean, one
of the question that comes is are there any difference in the features?
Because this is expensive and this is completely free.
So do note that feature wise of Kubernetes, both offering provides the same features.
It's just that Amazon ECS has more integration with the AWS services.
So a lot of organizations are based on AWS and they need great amount of integration.
So this is something that is really great in such cases.
However, Kubernetes wise, both of them are pretty much similar.
Great.
So once you sign up for Digitalocean under the manage, you will basically see a Kubernetes offering.
So you can click over here and within here you can go ahead and create a Kubernetes cluster.
Now, within the Kubernetes version, you can go ahead and select the right Kubernetes version that
is available.
Again, Kubernetes releases new version very frequently, so you can select the latest version, whatever
is available.
The next important area is to choose the data center region where your cluster will be launched since.
Am based out of India.
I'll be using the Bangalore, which is the nearest one to me.
Once.
Then the next step is to choose the cluster capacity.
So this basically means that once your Kubernetes master is launched, how many worker nodes you need.
So depending upon your application, you can go ahead and increase the worker node.
However, since we are learning, we do not really need the number of worker nodes to three.
We'll reduce it to one.
Also note that the node plan, it's $20 per month per node.
Again, this provides greater amount of Ram and CPU.
This is something that we do not need for test purpose.
We'll reduce it to the lowest one that is available.
That is $10 per month per node.
And again, if you have a credit, this is also something that you do not really need to pay.
Now the next part is the node pool name, so you can just call it as something like AP Labs worker node.
All right.
So this is basically the name that will be associated with the worker nodes.
The next thing is to choose a name for your cluster.
Let's just call it as AP Labs K test.
All right.
So that's about it.
In configuring the managed Kubernetes cluster once, then you can go ahead and click on Create Cluster.
Great.
So here you see that our new cluster, based on a specific Kubernetes version, is getting launched.
Now, if you go into the Nodes tab, you'll see that you have one worker node that is also being created.
Now do note that it can take few minutes for the Kubernetes cluster to get launched.
Now, again, this is not something related to Digitalocean.
Even if you launch a Kubernetes cluster using the Amazon ECS offering, it takes few minutes for the
cluster to get launched.
So let's do one thing.
I'll quickly pause the video and we'll resume once the cluster is available.
Great.
So it has been around 5 to 7 minutes and our Kubernetes cluster is now up and running.
So once your Kubernetes cluster is up and running, in order to go ahead and schedule your application
or create various resources here, the first thing that you need is a client.
And this client should be able to communicate to the Kubernetes master.
So it's not like that.
The client can directly communicate to the Kubernetes master without username and password.
So there are certain credentials that are required for the client to connect to the cluster.
And this is the reason why once your Kubernetes cluster is up and running, if you go a bit down, you
basically get a cluster configuration file.
And this is the cluster configuration file, which basically contains various things like the address
of your Kubernetes cluster as well as the credentials here.
So let's go ahead and download the config file here.
So this is basically a Yaml file.
Let's quickly open this up.
Great.
So this is what the configuration file looks like.
So one of the first important thing here you will see is the address.
So this is the address where the Kubernetes server is running on.
So whenever you want to perform some activity, you will go ahead and send your request to this server.
Now, as we know, if you just send a request without authentication credentials like username password,
that request will be rejected.
So what happens next is you are also provided a token.
So this is the token.
And if you want to send a request, you have to also provide a token.
And this token, basically you can consider it as a password to your Kubernetes cluster.
Great.
Now at this stage we have a Kubernetes master running.
And if you in fact, if you will see the node list over here, you also have one worker node that is
up and running.
So you have a master, you have a worker node up and running.
You have the address to the Kubernetes master and you have the credentials to authenticate it.
Now, the next important thing that is pending is to download the CLI, which will be used to send a
request to the Kubernetes master.
And this is something that we'll be doing in the next video.
That's great.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - MSSP ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of kubectl ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about the installation methods for Kubectl.
Now, before we go ahead and do that, let's have a quick overview about the kubectl.
So the Kubernetes command line tool, which is also referred as the Kubectl, allows you to run commands
against the Kubernetes cluster.
So let's say that you have a Kubernetes cluster up and running and you want to go ahead and create resources
like Pods or any other resources in the Kubernetes cluster.
So what you need is you need a command line utility.
In this case, it is kubectl.
And through kubectl you'll go ahead and send various instructions to the Kubernetes cluster.
And based on your instruction, the resources would be created or deleted accordingly.
Now, one important part to remember here is that in order for kubectl to connect to the Kubernetes
master, it needs various information like the DNS or IP of your cluster, the authentication credentials
and so on.
And this is the reason why you also have one more resource called as Kubeconfig file.
And this kube config file in turn contains various information like token DNS and other information
of the Kubernetes cluster, which your kubectl will refer to in order to go ahead and connect to the
Kubernetes cluster.
So the overall workflow will involve three primary components Kubernetes Master, the Kubectl binary
and the cube config resource file.
So once you have all of these available, you can go ahead and get started.
Now, one of the great things about the kubectl is that it is a installable binary and it is supported
in various operating system like Linux, Mac OS as well as Windows.
So this is really great.
Now within the Kubernetes documentation associated with installed tools.
In fact, I'll be sharing this link after this video so you can also try it out.
So under the force tool of Kubectl, you'll see that there are three separate documentation for installing
kubectl on Linux, Mac OS and Windows.
So depending upon the operating system that you use, you can go ahead and choose accordingly.
So for today's video, we'll go ahead and look into the installation method for Windows.
And in the next video we'll look into the installation method for Linux, which is very similar to that
of Mac OS.
So in case if you're using Windows, you can go ahead and continue the video and look into the steps
in case if you are using Linux or Mac OS, then you can switch to the next video.
Great.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and open up the kubectl on Windows based documentation here.
And if you go a bit down you basically have the link to the kubectl binary.
So there is no need to run the Curl command.
All you can do is you can copy this binary, paste it within the browser.
And the cube gets downloaded.
So within my downloads folder I have this cube, Ctl dot x file.
I'll go ahead and copy this up and I'll paste it to a new folder called as eight Installation, which
is there in my desktop.
So in my desktop I have a folder called as K eight.
Inside here I have a installation folder and inside here I have a cube Ctl dot txt which I have stored
here.
So now if we'll quickly open up the command prompt in Windows, let's go to this directory.
So we'll go to desktop, we'll go to test, we'll go to installation.
All right.
If I do a dir.
You should see that you have a cube.
Ctl dot exe available.
So if you just run the cube Ctl command here, you'll basically see all the options that you can use
along with the Cube Ctl command to manage your Kubernetes cluster.
Now when you do a cube, Ctl get nodes command.
Let's go ahead and run this command.
So what this command basically does, it shows you the list of worker nodes that are available.
So similar to what we were seeing within the GUI.
If you look into the nodes over here, you should see that there is one worker node that is available
and the same thing this command allows us to do.
Now immediately you get an error stating unable to connect to the server.
No connection could be made.
Now this is primarily because the cube Ctl does not really know the DNS associated with the Kubernetes
master server and we already know from where this information can be found out, which is the cube config
file.
Now, in the earlier video we had already downloaded the config file from Digitalocean.
So let me go ahead and copy this up and within our installation folder we'll go ahead and paste this
file.
Great.
So now what we'll do is we'll go ahead and run the cube Ctl and we'll associate it with this cube config
file.
So let's try it out.
So I'll say cube Ctl cube config and I'll refer to the file name and then we can run the command as
get nodes.
And if things are working as expected, you should see one worker node here.
And yes, we are able to see one worker node that is up and running.
Now one more thing before we conclude is that this binary is present in this specific folder.
So in case if we come out of this folder and if we try to run the cube Ctl, it immediately says that
it is not a recognized command.
So for simplicity you can add it as part of the environment variable.
So what you can do is you can go ahead under my computer, you can open up the properties, you can
go to advanced system settings, environment variable, and for the path, you can go ahead and set
a new environment variable here.
So for simplicity, let's do one thing under C Drive.
I'll go ahead and create a new directory called as Binaries.
Let's go here and we'll copy this binary to our central binaries folder.
So generally if you have multiple binaries you can paste it here and within here for the path you can
click on, edit, you can click on new and here you can go ahead and specify the entire path.
So let's specify this entire path.
Let's do a new again, I'll paste the path, I'll do a Okay, perfect.
So now if you'll open up one more CMD and if you run Cube Ctl, you should see things are working well.
So this is one part.
Second important part is that for the cube Ctl to run against our cluster, we have to specify the cube
config every time.
Otherwise the cube Ctl will not be able to perform operations here.
So this is a little cumbersome, so we need to make it much more easier so that we don't have to specify
a config file every time we run the cube Ctl Command.
So let's look into how we can overcome this.
So within your C drive you can open up users, inside users, you can go to the user from which you
are logged in.
And within here you should see a directory called Dot Cube in case if it is not created, you can go
ahead and create it.
And inside this directory you can go ahead and paste your configuration file.
So this specific configuration file that we had downloaded from Digitalocean, let's copy this up and
I'll paste it over here under the dot cube folder and we need to change the name to config and make
sure that you remove the dot yaml over here.
Let's do a yes and do note that the type should not be yaml.
The type should be changed to file.
Now once you have done that, if you do a cube Ctl get nodes you should see you are able to perform
a query without explicitly specifying the cube config file.
That's great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics about the cube config file, the cube Ctl and its integration
to go ahead and connect to the Kubernetes.
Stuff.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - kubectl ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Installing & Configuring kubectl for Linux and macOS ---

Everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the importance of the Cube Ctl binary, and we also
looked into the importance of the cube config file and how cube Ctl binary can use this file to connect
to the Kubernetes cluster.
So in today's video we'll go ahead and download the Cube Ctl and the target operating system for today's
video would be Linux.
Now in case if you are using Mac OS, the overall step would be very similar to that of Linux.
So let's quickly open up the documentation associated with Linux here.
Now within the documentation here in the Step one itself, it is basically giving you the command to
download the latest release.
So this is the exact command.
You can go ahead and copy this specific command.
Now do note that this specific command is associated with Linux.
So in a Linux box, let's paste this command which will go ahead and download the Cube Ctl binary.
Now in case if you are running Mac, then you can open up the documentation associated with Mac OS and
here you can go ahead and copy this specific command which will download the cube Ctl binary for Mac
OS.
Great.
So once the binary is downloaded, if you do an LS, you should see that you have a cube Ctl binary
over here.
Now the next important thing is you have to make sure to set the executable bit here.
Otherwise if you directly run Cube Ctl over here, it basically shows as permission denied.
So let's just set an execution bit here on the cube Ctl and that's it.
If you run a cube Ctl now you should see all the options that the cube Ctl allows you to do to perform
the operations on the cluster.
Now, the next important step is to go ahead and integrate this cube Ctl with the cube config file so
that we can perform the operations on the Kubernetes master.
So basically, if you will do a cube, Ctl get nodes command over here, it immediately gives an error
stating that the connection is refused and it is trying to connect to a Kubernetes cluster in localhost.
Now, since the Kubernetes cluster is not in local host, in fact it is in the digital ocean.
We need to go ahead and fetch the configuration file that we have downloaded from Digital Ocean.
So this is the configuration file here.
Let's go ahead and copy this up.
And within my Linux box, let me create a new file.
Let's just call it as CS dot cube config and let me paste the contents here once, then I'll save it.
And now if you want to reference the cube Ctl configuration file, you can just specify cube config
and specify the name of the file which is cube config.
So now your cube Ctl binary will basically make use of this file.
It will fetch the contents from this file to perform certain operations and the operation that we are
performing is get nodes.
Now get Node is a very simple operation.
So basically within the Digitalocean cluster, if you go to the nodes, you should see that you have
one node that is available.
So the get node basically shows you the same thing in a clear way.
So let's go ahead and press enter.
And within the output, as expected, we are seeing one worker node that is available.
So this is great.
Now one of the challenges here is that every time you run the cube Ctl, you will have to specify this
cube config parameter so that this specific operation of get nodes or whatever operation you perform
is run on a digitalocean cluster.
So this is a bit cumbersome.
So instead of this, we can make use of a much more easier way so that we don't have to perform this
specific parameter for every command.
So what we can do is for simplicity inside your working directory.
So if you just do a CD and if I do a PWD, this is my working directory.
So what I'll do, I'll go ahead and create a new folder called as dot you.
And in case if the folder is created, you will basically get this specific message that is great.
So in our case, the folder is created since we had run the Kubectl command.
So now what you need to do is you have to copy your kube config file inside this specific folder.
So I'll say cp src config inside the folder which is dot q and the file name would be config.
So if I'll quickly go to this specific folder and if I do ls, you should see a file called as config.
Now make sure that this file name remains to be same.
And if I do a cat on this config file you should see the exact contents that we had downloaded from
our digitalocean configuration file.
So once you have done that, let's go back and if you reference to kubectl get nodes, now you see it
works perfectly well.
Now again here we are referencing to the kubectl.
So in case if you go to a different directory like temp and if we run the kubectl, it will not work.
So now what you need to do, you can go ahead and move this binary to a specific location.
So let's say I copy this binary to usr local bin, all right?
And now, irrespective of the folder from which I run kubectl, it should work perfectly well.
So if I do a kubectl get nodes we'll be able to run it perfectly well.
So going back to the macOS documentation, the first command is you have to download the kubectl binary
for Mac.
Then if you go a bit down.
Similar to what we were doing in Linux.
We are setting up the executable bit on the cube Ctl binary and then you are moving the cube Ctl binary
to usr local bin cube Ctl and things should work perfectly well.
So the overall steps are same.
The only difference between Mac OS and Linux would be the binary here.
That's great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of installing cube Ctl, integrating it with the cube
config so that we can perform operations on the Kubernetes cluster.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Understanding PODS ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, one of the first things that people love to do once they have set up the orchestrator engine is
to go ahead and create the containers.
So in today's video, we'll precisely be doing that.
And the topic for today's video is Pods.
Now, in order to understand on how we can go ahead and create the containers in Kubernetes, we'll
be making a reference to the Docker set of commands to go ahead and understand the quick reference over
here.
Now, for example, in order to create a new Docker container, we make use of a command of Docker run
followed by the name.
The name of the container is my web server, followed by the image from which the container would be
launched.
Now, in a similar way in kubectl, the overall command is very similar.
So you have kubectl run followed by the name, which is my web server and followed by the image which
is Nginx over here.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So currently I'm within the CLI and if you do a Docker.
PS Currently there are no containers that are up and running, so let's go ahead and create a new container.
I'll say Docker run, let's give it a name of my web server and let's specify the image of Nginx.
So at this stage here, you see that it is unable to find the nginx image locally.
So it is going ahead and pulling out the nginx image from the Docker hub and after it has downloaded
then the container would be launched from it.
That's great.
So our container is up and running.
Now from a different tab, if you do a docker PS, you should see that we have a container from the
Nginx image up and running.
Now in a similar way, you can also go ahead and use the kubectl run command.
In fact, before we do that, if you run a kubectl get nodes here, you will see that there is one worker
node.
So this is the node where our containers would be running.
And in this node it is showing that the status is ready.
So now we can go ahead and schedule the containers here so you can do a kubectl run my web server followed
by the image of Nginx and that's about it.
So at a high level overview, just remember that in Kubernetes terms a container is referred as a pod.
So if you do a kubectl get pods here, you will see that we have one pod called as my web server and
it is running great.
So let's explore a second command, which is basically exec into a container.
So for example, if you want to connect inside a container, what you will generally do in Docker is
you will do a Docker exec hyphen t followed by the name of the container and the bash over here.
In a similar way for the Kubernetes, you do a cube Ctl exec hyphen t followed by the name of the container.
So in Kubernetes terms as we are discussing containers is also referred as a pod.
So this is name of a pod followed by a hyphen hyphen and bash.
So now you see that the commands are very similar.
And if you are comfortable with the Docker set of commands learning Kubernetes set of commands will
be much more simpler, specifically related to pods.
So let's try it out.
So when you do a Docker PS over here, as we are discussing that, we have one container.
Let's go ahead and connect inside this container with Docker Exec.
It followed by my web server and we will make use of bash.
So immediately here you see we are connected inside the container in a similar way.
We already know that we have a pod that is available with the name of my web server.
So in order to connect it, you can do a cube Ctl exec hyphen T followed by the name of the pod, which
is my web server, followed by hyphen, hyphen and the bash.
Great.
And now you see you are connected inside the container.
So this hyphen hyphen separates your argument that you want to run as part of your container as well
as the name here.
For example, let's say you want to go ahead and run a command of LS hyphen L inside this specific pod
in Kubernetes.
So you have a hyphen hyphen followed by the command.
So this command will run inside your Kubernetes pod.
So when you do enter here, you see you are getting the output associated with your root file system
of this specific my web server port.
And one more thing I wanted to show you.
In fact, let's say that you want to go ahead and remove this specific container so you can do a docker.
RM Followed by the name of the container, which is my web server.
And immediately here you basically get an error primarily because you have a running container here.
So what you generally do, you will do a Docker stop followed by the name of the container, which is
my web server, and then you can go ahead and remove your container here.
So in a similar way, if you do a kubectl get pods.
So if you want to go ahead and remove this specific pod, you can directly go ahead and do a kubectl
delete pod, my web server and immediately your pod will be deleted here, even though if it is running
now with this base set, let's go ahead and discuss more in detail about the term of a Kubernetes pod.
So pod in Kubernetes represents a group of one or more application containers and some shared resources
for those containers.
So this can be better explained with this diagram.
So you have a pod one and within the pod one you have one container that is available and that container
has a specific IP address.
In a pod.
Two you have a one container and you have one storage volume.
In pod three you have multiple containers.
So you have two containers.
You have a single storage volume, and in a pod four you have three containers and you have two storage
volume.
And this is what it means when it states that a pod represents a group of one or more application containers.
So do note that not only there can be a single container in a pod, you can also have multiple containers
that are part of a single pod.
Now let's look into some of the benefits that this type of approach provides.
So many applications might have more than one container that are tightly coupled in a 1 to 1 relationship.
So, for example, let's say that you have an application and that application requires two containers
to be up and running.
First is the container named function zero one and second is a container name function zero two.
So what you will do first, you will do a Docker run and you will create a container from function zero
one and then you'll go ahead and create a container from function zero two.
And only after both of these containers are up, your application would be up here.
So in case if one of the container goes down, then at the end what would happen is your end application
will also go down.
Second part is that in this approach we are managing at an individual container level.
So for example, let's say that you have functions zero one function zero two things are working fine
tomorrow.
There is good amount of load that is happening, so you need to know the 1 to 1 relationship here.
So you need to have a sheet which states that function zero one is dependent on function zero two and
so on.
So in production application, this can also be quite complex.
Now one of the ways to deal with a tightly coupled application in Kubernetes is to make use of Pod.
So what you will do in Pod, you have two containers function zero one and function zero two.
So essentially what will happen is all you do, you go ahead and create a pod, and pod in turn will
go ahead and create multiple containers here.
So you do not really have to create individual containers similar to what we do in Docker.
Things become much more simplified at a pod level.
So for example, you have a pod one which consists of functions zero one function zero two things are
working quite well.
So tomorrow there is good amount of load in your website.
A lot of users are visiting and things are slowing down.
So what you can do, you can go ahead and create one more pod.
This pod in turn will go ahead and create a container of function zero one and function zero two, and
that's about it.
You do not really need to know about 1 to 1 relationship and other details.
Everything.
Kubernetes deals in the background.
Now, in the later set of videos, we will be discussing more in detail on how a pod can have multiple
set of containers.
And there are a lot of interesting things that you can do with Kubernetes.
So, for example, if something is not really working, so let's say Function zero two is not really
working in Pod one, Kubernetes can go ahead and automatically create one more pod so that your application
can go ahead and remain available all the time.
Or for example, let's say that you have two pods that are serving the production traffic.
However, the load is increasing.
Kubernetes can automatically go ahead and create more pods that can receive the production traffic so
that the load is evenly distributed.
So if you have worked with the auto scaling feature in AWS, Kubernetes can do something very similar
to that.
That's great.
So before we go ahead and do a lot of exciting things with Pods and various other Kubernetes objects,
let's go ahead and quickly revise our concepts.
First, is that a pod always runs on a node.
So for example, when you do a cube, Ctl get nodes over here, you see that you have one node available
and all the pods that we are creating, they are being created in this specific worker node.
Second important point is that a node is a worker machine within the Kubernetes environment.
Then you have each node is managed by a master, so you have a Kubernetes master which goes ahead and
manages nodes.
And fourth is a node can have multiple pods.
So for today's video, we just created one pod, but you can even create 100 pods and 100 pods can run
in a node which you have available as part of your cluster.
Now at a high level overview, some of the points might not be very clear, but as soon as we go further
down the course, each and every point you will understand in great detail.
However, with this video, the primary aim was just to give you a high level overview about the Kubernetes
pod so that we can go ahead and start with our exciting journey into the Kubernetes.

--- Understanding Kubernetes Objects ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the Kubernetes objects.
Now, in the earlier video, if you remember, we were discussing about the record of intent.
So record of intent is basically what you tell to Kubernetes.
Master and Kubernetes master will basically make sure that whatever you have informed, it will always
be running all the time.
So that is what record of intent meant.
So in this example, the record of intent was that I want to launch a application, A So Kubernetes
master will receive this and it will always make sure that that application A is always running.
So if worker Node A does not work, then Kubernetes master will move that application to worker node
two and so on.
So the record of intent was one of the non-technical terms.
So when you speak technically, then it is also referred as the Kubernetes objects.
So just to revise the Kubernetes objects is basically a record of intent that you pass on to the Kubernetes
cluster.
Now once you create the object, the Kubernetes will constantly work to ensure that object exists within
the system.
So this object so in our case, because we have been doing practical aspects related to Pod, so this
object can be pod, it can also be namespace, it can also be deployments and so on.
So in Kubernetes there are a lot of things that you can do apart from just creating a pod.
So those aspects are referred as the Kubernetes objects.
Now there are various ways in which we can configure an Kubernetes object.
Now the first way that we have seen is through the Kubectl command.
So we basically ran the kubectl run command to create a pod.
So that pod is referred as the object here.
So that is the first approach.
Now you can also create things via the Yaml file.
So you have a configuration file which is written in Yaml, and that configuration file can also be
used to create the Kubernetes object.
So in this case, if you look into this yaml file, this Yaml file exactly does the same.
So it basically creates a pod and the name of the pod is my web server and it is scheduled to be run
from the image of Nginx.
So in fact let me quickly show you this before we proceed.
So this is the pod dot Yaml and basically we'll be discussing more about this in greater detail.
But here if you see the version is one.
So this is basically the API version, then you have the kindest pod.
So that basically indicates that the Kubernetes should create a pod.
Then you have the metadata where the name is my web server.
So this is the name of the object that you are giving.
And you also have within the spec, the image which is nginx.
So again, we'll be discussing this in great detail when we actually start to write things from scratch.
But for today's demo, I just wanted to show you on how exactly we can create a Kubernetes object through
a Yaml file.
So if I do a dir you have the pod yaml file here.
So if I want to create the things which are mentioned within the Yaml file, what you need to do is
you have to do a kubectl apply.
However, before we do that let's do a kubectl get pods to verify if there are any pods running.
And currently you see there are no pods running.
So now you can do kubectl apply followed by pod dot yaml.
Right.
So when you do the apply hyphen F basically stands for the file.
So this is the file that we are supplying.
And in the output it says the pod has been created.
So now if you do a kubectl get pods, you see you have one pod which is currently created.
So that's the high level overview about different ways in which you can configure a Kubernetes object.
Now typically if you are working in production environment with Kubernetes, you will mostly be working
with the Yaml file.
You do not really run a kubectl write specific commands in a production cluster.
All you have to go through the Yaml file and this is what most of the organizations follow now discussing
about Yaml.
So Yaml is basically a human readable data serialization language.
Now one of the great benefits of Yaml is that it is designed to be human friendly and it works perfectly
with other programming languages.
So when you talk about Yaml, you have various other products which actively uses Yaml.
So Ansible is one of the very famous configuration management tools which makes use of Yaml.
Then you also have the Kubernetes where you can write the Yaml files, even cloud formation where you
can write the Yaml file.
So generally you can define XML, you can define Json, you can define Yaml, but when you work with
Yaml, you will see that it is much, much more easier when compared to XML and Json and XML and Json
are a bit of pain if you typically write it from scratch for machine specific purposes.
Json is quite good.
However, if you want to write things from scratch, Yaml is the one which is preferred and Yaml is
very simple to learn and it's easy to read as well.
So this is the reason why Yaml is one of the supported language for writing the Kubernetes objects.
So once we start to write the Yaml files you will realize how easy it is to configure things.
So before we conclude, let's look into the benefits of configuration files here.
Now the first benefit is that it integrates well with the change review process.
Now a lot of organizations you go through a change review process where before you apply a change,
you have to get it reviewed from your peers.
So since it is a configuration file, you can go through a change review process.
Second is it provides the source of record on what is live within your Kubernetes cluster.
So let's say that there are five people who are managing the Kubernetes cluster and everyone is using
the Kubectl Command to perform various write operations.
So if you want to look into what are the changes that had happened today, what are the changes that
happened yesterday, or what are the things which are live at an instant of time?
It is quite challenging to do that.
So if you have everything within the configuration file a new join, you can easily read the configuration
file and he can understand on what are the things which are live.
And third is it is also easier to troubleshoot changes with version control.
So since this is a configuration file, you can even version control it and you can quickly find out
the changes applied.
So let me quickly give you an example here.
So I have a simple pod dot yaml.
So this is the pod dot yaml that we had basically referenced.
Now let's say that someone had run this pod dot yaml file and the system broke, the web server stopped
working.
So you want to know because you tested this Yaml file in development environment and everything was
working.
However, when you ran it in production things were not working as expected.
So you want to see if this file was modified or not.
So what you can quickly do, you can quickly look into the commits which were made towards this file.
And then you can quickly see what are the changes.
So you see someone replaced image of Nginx with Nginx two and this was the change which happened.
So it is very easy to see what are the changes which are happening because once you have made the change
to your configuration file and you did a kubectl apply, then other people who are also troubleshooting,
they can see whether the file was changed or not.
So that was one benefit.
You can even let's say that I do a edit here and let's replace it with Nginx four and let's do a commit.
However, before this commit goes to the master, I can do a pull request and within the pull request
I can add the reviewers here.
So before this specific change goes to the master branch and after it gets applied, what I can do is
I can go through a pull request where my peers who are working with me, they can review the change
and if they find that things are not really fine as expected, they can reject my change.
So that can basically help prevent the downtime.
So that's the high level overview about the Kubernetes objects.
We also looked into how we can configure the Kubernetes objects through Yaml file.
Again, understanding Yaml file was not the main goal of today's video.
The main goal was to make sure that you know that along with Kubectl run Command you can even create
objects with the Yaml file.
We'll be discussing about Yaml file in great detail in the later videos.
However, I hope you understood the basics about Kubernetes objects as well as importance of Yaml file.
Now again as we discussed.
So if you are working in the production environment, the chances are that you will be writing the Kubernetes
objects through Yaml file and you will have to go through the change review as well as the pull request
based approach.
So with this I'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating First POD Configuration in YAML ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will look into how we can create a pod with Yaml configuration file.
Now, we have discussed that there are multiple ways in which you can configure an object within the
Kubernetes cluster.
Now, first is you can run the Kubectl command, which automatically does a lot of things for you so
it can convert your command to a specific Json format before it sends it to the API.
Second, you can even create your own configuration file and that configuration file can be written
in the Yaml format.
So let's look into how this can be done from scratch.
Now in the video associated with the Kubernetes object, we had a small demo about how a pod can be
created with a sample pod dot yaml file that we had.
So let's look into what exactly the contents really mean.
Now the first important one is the API version.
So API version is basically the version of API that you want to use.
Now again, you cannot really use all the API.
It all depends upon the kind.
So here the kind is pod and this pod is within the version one core API group.
Now we have already discussed about this in the API Primitives video, so I hope you now understand
what exactly this means.
However, just to revise, let me quickly show you this.
Now within the Kubernetes, there are a lot of API paths which are currently available, as you would
see.
So let's open up the API slash version one.
So I'll put it within the browser.
And within here you have various names which are available.
So you have name of binding, you have component status config map, and if you go a bit down you even
have pods.
So this is what we are referring to now since we want to create pods and pods is within the API slash
version one.
Hence within the API version we have version one here and the kind here is pod.
Now after we have defined the API version and the kind, the third important key here is the metadata.
Now metadata basically uniquely identifies a specific Kubernetes object within a given namespace.
So you need to make sure that the object has a unique given name so that you can easily identify it.
So within the metadata, I have given the name of the object as my web server.
Now after metadata you have spec, so spec is nothing but the desired state of the object.
So within the spec you have containers and you are giving a name of container as my web server and the
image name is Nginx.
Now one of the question that really comes is where did I get all of these things from?
How do I know that inside spec there would be containers and so on?
And the answer to this is documentation.
So now if you look into the API overview documentation officially from kubernetes.io website, there
are various objects which are available.
So currently we are more interested in Pod.
So I'll click on Pod and as soon as I clicked it, you see it basically gives you a overview about a
template which is required to create a pod.
So this is much more easier.
So let's say that you want to create a replica set, you click here.
It automatically gives you a high level overview template associated with replica set.
So it really becomes much more easier to get started.
However, let's go to the pod right now.
So here you have the template associated with it.
Now along with that, you also have the description about every field that you can use.
So here you have the API version.
We already discussed this, you have the kind, you also have the metadata, you also have the spec
and you have the status.
Now there is also a second way in which you can do this.
So let's say I'll do a kubectl API resources.
So these are all the API resources that we have.
So here we have pods here.
All right, So this, if you see the kind is pod.
Now if you want to see what goes here, you can say kubectl explain Pod.
Now here, it will basically give you an overview about the fields that can be used here.
Along with that, you also have link to the documentation over here.
However, this link, many times you will see that this link is outdated.
So if I can quickly show you that, let me copy this up and I'll copy that link within my browser.
And you see it basically shows you 404.
So let's just remove the last aspect of this URL.
And now you are in the devil.
And if you go a bit down so here within the API convention, you can just open up the API convention.md
So many times you would see that the documentation provided via the CLI command is a little bit outdated
there.
So within here you will be able to see in more detail about the things.
So let's say you are more interested in understanding the metadata aspect so you can open this up and
it will give you a detailed documentation about the metadata.
Now along with that, you can also go through the documentation which is available within the kubernetes.io,
where you have various fields and you also have fields related to the pod spec.
So if you look into this specific diagram within spec, you have containers.
So now let's go a bit down and you should see the field of containers over here.
All right, So now if you open up container.
It basically now will show you in detail on what are the things that you can mention inside the container.
So within the containers you have name and image.
So the same thing, you will be able to find it.
You have the image aspect.
And you have the name aspect here.
So this is one way in which you can go through the documentation if you want to see on what exactly
these fields are.
So let's do one thing.
I have basically created a file called as New Port, and this is where we will be configuring the first
object through Yaml file.
So as we know, the first thing that we have to use is the API version.
Now you have to make sure that you have indented things properly, otherwise it can be an issue.
So for API version we have the version one then.
You can go ahead and do a cube Ctl explain on pod.
So we have the API version which is filled.
Then the next thing is the kind.
So let's say kind and I'll call it as pod.
Now, the third thing here is the metadata.
So within the metadata, you have various things that you can put inside the metadata.
So if you look into the documentation yet again, so a metadata field can have various things like namespace.
You have name as well as Uid.
So we will be using the name here.
So if you do not specify namespace, then a default namespace is automatically used.
So currently we'll use the name.
So since the name is inside the metadata, you have to indent it correctly.
So you see the name is inside metadata.
So the name I'll call it as Nginx web server.
And the metadata field is quite good enough.
Now the next field is the spec field.
So spec field is basically, as we discussed, it is the desired state that we want the pod should have.
So I'll say spec and within the spec, again, if you look into the documentation here, again you will
see plenty of readymade files that are available within the documentation.
So the current thing that we are doing is like the manual way, but you should know this manual way
as well in case if you do not find the documentation and this is the reason why we are going through
all this, because in the earlier if you would have seen within the pods, this is a simple port definition
which is already present.
So you can directly use this and edit it accordingly.
All right.
However, this does not have each and every thing.
For example, within spec you have containers and within containers you have name, image, command
and arguments.
However, there can be a lot of other things that also you can put within the spec and not everything
you will find within the template here.
So this is the reason why it's better to also go through the documentation manually.
So let's go to the spec, I'll open up the pod spec and within here, as we discussed, there are multiple
things.
The thing that we are interested here is the containers since we are planning to launch it.
So basically this is list of containers belonging to a specific pod.
So I'll say containers and within containers.
Again, if you open up the container here.
You will see what are the things that you can define inside it?
You can define arguments.
You can define command image.
So image is something that we are interested.
Let's put the image here.
So I'll say image and the image would be nginx.
And the next thing is the name.
Now, a name.
It says that this is the name of the container.
And each container in a pod must have a unique name.
So I'll say name as demo container.
Now let's go ahead and save this.
So from the CLI you can do Cube Ctl apply hyphen F followed by the name of the file.
Now if there are any issues with your Yaml file then it will give you an error and precisely it should
be giving us.
So now you see it is basically giving an error here saying that there is a validation specific issue
within the pod dot spec dot containers.
So this becomes much more easier to for us to find out the exact issue.
So here we have Pod, we have spec and inside spec we have containers.
So the issue seems to be somewhere here.
Now it also says that a pod spec containers it received map, however it was expecting an array.
So what you can do.
You can simply provide an array so you can just put a dash and that's about it.
So let's save it again.
And now you see when you do a kubectl apply, it says that the pod of Nginx web server is created.
However, if you do a kubectl get pods now you see the Nginx web server pod is currently running.
Now if you want to delete everything which is part and defined within the file, you can say kubectl
delete followed by hyphen F where you specify the file name and you say new pod dot yaml.
And once you do that, you see that the pod is deleted.
So that's the high level overview about how you can create an object configuration with Yaml file.
Again, in today's video we went through more of a manual approach, going through the documentation,
seeing on where can we find the relevant data.
However, most of the time for the objects of Kubernetes, you will see a plenty of documentation available
which has the readymade Yaml file so you can just take the Yaml file, edit it according to your requirement
and just do an apply.
You don't really have to create the Yaml file from scratch because that will take a good amount of time
and it is not recommended to do it from scratch as well because you already have a lot of templates
which are working and available in the documentation.
So that's the high level overview about today's video.
Again, the documentation we were referring in today's video, I'll be posting it after the video so
you can also go through it.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - POD YAML ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Labels and Selectors ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about labels and selectors.
Now, labels are basically a key value pair that you attach to a Kubernetes objects such as pods.
So let's understand this with a simple example where you have two distinct set of environments here.
The first environment consists of a server, a database and a load balancer.
And in a similar way, a second set of environment consists of a load balancer, a server and a database.
Now if someone tells you that, Hey, can you go ahead and stop all the resources associated with a
dev environment.
Now if you look from here, it is very difficult to see which server or which database belongs to a
dev environment.
The reason why it is difficult to know is because there are no appropriate labels which are associated
with all of these resources.
Now, in a second example here, what we have done is we have added label to each and every resource
here.
So the first server has a label where the key here is name and the value is CP Labs Gateway, and it
also has a second label where the environment is production.
Now in a similar way, the second resource has a label where name is Cablelabs hyphen DB and the environment
is production.
Similarly, if you look into the second environment here, the name is CP Hyphen DB and the environment
is Dev.
Now from this label which is associated with a individual resource, you will be able to quickly find
out that hey, the lower three resources which are created, they belong to the dev environment and
now I can go ahead and stop all of these resources right away.
Now in order for you to know about this, having a label associated with this resource is very important.
So let me quickly give you an example in terms of perspective so it becomes easier for us to understand.
So I'm in my console here, and here you will see that there are three servers which are currently running.
Now let's say that someone tells you go ahead and stop a dev server.
Now from here it is very difficult for you to know which among these three servers is a dev server.
The reason why it is difficult for us to know is because there are no appropriate labels which are associated
with these three servers.
And this is the reason why attaching a label is very important.
Now here, do remember that depending upon the technology that you use, the name label will change.
So AWS might call it as tag.
Now in the Kubernetes environment, you will call it as label and so on.
So although the naming convention is different, but the overall concepts remains the same.
So if you have worked with AWS, labels are very similar to tags so that it becomes easier for you to
grasp.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and add a tag.
What I'll do, I'll add two tags.
Now if you would look into this diagram, there were two labels which were attached.
One was associated with the name and second was associated with the environment.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So here I'll call name as CP Labs hyphen production and we'll add one more tag or one more label called
as Env.
And the env here is production.
I'll go ahead and save this.
Now in a similar way for the second server, let's go ahead and add one more tag, I'll call it as name
and let's call it as payment gateway.
And for this I'll add a tag.
The tag is dev.
All right, Now if you go ahead and refresh it, the first server again, you are not able to identify
from here, but if you look into the tags here, you will see that there is a tag which is associated
with the server where the name is CP Labs hyphen production and the Env is production.
So if you click on any of the server, it is very easy for you to see that this server belongs to dev
environment or the first server belongs to a production environment.
So this is what labels are now.
Definitely you can make it much more easier so that within a year it can appear.
So let me give you one more example.
So if I add a tag with a capital name and let's call it as App Gateway, and if I click on Save, you
see it appears within the console itself.
So if you do it this way, this way also it works well because ultimately the thing that you see over
here is nothing but the value associated with the key.
So if you look into the first slide, labels are nothing but a key value pairs.
So within here also you have a key value pair where the key is name and the value is app gateway.
And similar to that, within the second slide you'll see you have key value pair.
So the key is name, the value is key labs hyphen, gateway and so on.
So this is what labels are.
Now the next important part is selectors.
Now selectors basically allows us to filter objects based on labels.
So generally in Kubernetes, whenever you are using labels, you will be using selectors as well in
a lot of occurrences.
So let's take an example.
So the first example is show me all the objects which has label where inv is equal to prod.
So now what will happen is you will see all the resources here which has the environment as production.
So this is one simple use case.
Now the second use case here is show me all the objects where environment is equal to dev.
So now it will show you all the resources where the environment is dev.
So this is the importance of selectors.
So through selectors you can look or you can filter the resources based on labels.
So again, let's quickly understand this with the terminology, because here we are working with UI,
so it becomes much more easier.
So let's take the first example where we were discussing show me all the objects, where the label is
production.
So in AWS you can easily do that with the filter here.
So you can consider this filter as a selector.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go a bit up here and within the tag keys here you have a key of env.
So I'll click on Env and I'll say production.
So now what will happen is it will only show you all the resources which belongs to the production environment
or in short all the resources which has a tag where env is production.
So this is one way.
Now you can also modify it to show you all the resource which belongs to dev environment.
So again, it will show you only one resource which belongs to the dev environment.
So this is what selectors are now through selectors irrespective of how many instance you have.
So in current environment we have three instances.
However, in production there can be hundreds or even thousands of instances.
So through the selector you will be able to select or you will be able to view the right resources based
on the labels which are associated with them.
Now, from the Kubernetes perspective, there can be multiple objects which can be part of a Kubernetes
cluster.
Now some of the objects are pods.
You have services, secrets, namespaces, you have deployments, and so many of them.
So now what you can do is you can attach a label to the objects, which are part of the Kubernetes cluster.
Now, in the example, we had attached a label or a tag associated with the EC2 instance.
Now you can even attach a label to a load balancer, a RDS instance and so on.
Similar to that, even in Kubernetes you have various objects like pods, services, secrets, and you
can attach labels to all of these objects.
So let's understand the selector part again.
So in Kubernetes perspective, as we were discussing, there can be multiple objects.
So in this diagram we have a total of six pods which are currently running now by the name of this pod.
As we were discussing, it is difficult to identify what this pod does, whether it belongs to dev environment,
whether it belongs to prod environment and so on.
So the next thing that you do is you assign a label to your Kubernetes object.
So to every pod here you assign a label where the envy is the key and dev or prod is the associated
value.
So from the label now you can easily identify that the first pod belongs to dev, the second pod belongs
to prod and so on.
So coming back to the selector, let's say that you want to have a selector where you want to list all
the pods from dev environment.
So in order to have this use case you will have to make use of selector.
So what you do, you write a selector.
So what selector will do?
Selector will remove all the pods which does not have envy is equal to dev.
So now you will only be able to see the pods which has this specific environment of dev.
Now, in a similar way, let's say now you want to list all the pods from the production environment.
So now what selector will do?
Selector will look into the labels which are associated with the objects and all the objects which do
not have the environment of prod.
Will be removed from the list.
So if you see now select, I will go ahead and remove all the objects which has the envy of dev or others
which are not prod.
So that's what selectors are.
So I hope you understood at a high level overview about the labels and selectors.
Now before we conclude, let me give you a demo for Kubernetes so that this concept can be understood
in a better way.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a kubectl get pods here.
Now you see that there are two pods which are running now, these two pods from the name itself.
It becomes difficult to understand which of these pods belongs to dev or which of these pods belongs
to production.
So now what you can do, you can filter it out.
So let's say kubectl get pods and I'll specify by label where n is equal to dev.
And now you see it will only show you the pod which belongs to the development environment, or in short,
the pod, which has a label where the key is env and the value is death.
In a similar way you can even do env is equal to prod.
And now you see you see one more pod which has the environment is equal to production.
So in this way you can select the appropriate pods depending upon the use cases.
So let's do one thing, let's do a cube, Ctl describe Pod and before that let's do a cube.
Ctl get pods yet again and let's do a cube.
Ctl Describe Pod and I'll specify the name of one of the pods here.
Now, within the details which have been presented, if you look here, one of the details here is the
label.
Now one of the label here is env is equal to dev.
So this is the label which is associated with this pod.
This is very similar here where you have a pod and you have a label where N is equal to dev.
So that is what labels are.
And through selectors you will be able to filter the Kubernetes objects depending on the labels which
are associated with them.
Now, attaching a label to your Kubernetes objects is very important.
I'll show you one real world use case.
So in one of the organizations where I had recently joined what they used to do, they never had any
of the tags or any of the labels which are associated with the servers there.
So it was very difficult to find which server belonged to which environment.
And in one of the email thread, one of the developer requested the team member to go ahead and delete
the development EC2 instance and what the team member did.
He deleted the EC2 instance which belonged to the staging environment and all of the QA team came running
at the DevOps team asking why did they delete the staging environment?
And this was one of the reason, the reason why this mistake happened was because there was no label
which was associated with the resources in AWS.
And this is the reason why having labels is extremely important not only for the Kubernetes objects,
but also for the non Kubernetes environments like AWS.
So that's the high level overview about labels and selectors.
I hope you understood the concepts of label and selectors with respect to Kubernetes objects.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Implementing Labels and Selectors ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the basics of labels and selectors and how selectors
can be used to go ahead and search for the resources based on the labels that are attached to them.
So today is going to be a practical video where we'll go ahead and look into how we can attach a set
of labels to a specific Kubernetes objects.
And we'll also be looking into how we can go ahead and use the selectors to filter out the objects here.
So with this base set, let's go ahead and get started.
Now, in today's video, we'll go ahead and create three parts.
Let's quickly do a cube so it'll run, I call it as pod one and we'll set the image as engineers.
Similarly, let's also go ahead and create pod number two.
And we'll also create a pod number three.
That's great.
Now, if you do a cube, see tailgate pods over here.
We should see that there are three pods running.
Now, if you want to see what are the labels that are associated with pods, you can do a cube.
It'll get pods.
Come on with the option of show labels.
Now, at this stage, you'll see that each pod has a label of run is equal to pod name.
So you have run is equal to pod one, run is equal to pod two and run is equal to pod three.
So based on this label, it is difficult to identify the functionality of a specific pod.
So generally in production environment, it is recommended to give a label through which we can quickly
identify what the pod is supposed to do, or at least in which environment the pod is running.
So now what you can do in order to label a pod, you can do a cube, a label command, we'll add a pod.
And what is the name of the pod that we want to label?
I'll say we want to label pod name Pod one.
And what is the label we want to attach?
I'll say environment is equal to death.
So the pod one is label.
Similarly for port two, I'll say environment is equal to stage.
And for the pod three, we'll say environment is equal to prod.
Now if we do a cube, so it'll get pods on show labels.
You see, we have the envy label attached to all of these pods.
Great.
So this is the first step where we go ahead and associate a label with a specific object.
Now, the second important part is to make use of selectors, to go ahead and search for the objects
based on a specific label.
So let's quickly use a selector.
So I'll do a cube, so it'll get pods.
Now, by default, if we run this command, it will go ahead and show all the pods.
This is something that we do not want, what we want.
We want to look for pods that are based on an environment of dev.
So we'll add a selector.
So I'll say hyphen L followed by the label say envy is equal to dev.
So this time you see it only showed us the pod one over here.
Similarly, if I say env is equal to prod this time it has shown as the pod number three.
So this is what the selectors allows us to do.
Along with that you can also do various interesting things.
Let me quickly show you.
So you can also say envy, not equal to dev.
So now what this will do all the ports that does not have this specific envy of dev, it will go ahead
and list it.
So if I press enter, we should see in total of two pods over here.
Now let's clear the screen.
Now, if you do a cube CTA label, hyphen, hyphen help, you will basically get the examples related
to various functionality.
For example, we have already seen on how we can add a new label using the cube Ctrl label port command
followed by the name of the port, followed by the key value pair that will be added as part of the
label.
Along with that, let's say if you want to remove the label, then you can say Cube Ctrl label ports
followed by the name of the port, followed by the name of the key, which is Bar Area.
Now let me quickly show you.
So let's quickly do a cube.
So it'll get ports which show labels.
Alright, so let's go ahead and remove this dev label that is associated with Pod one.
So I'll take you to a label port followed by the name of the port, followed by the label key, which
is EMV.
And I'll specify a hyphen over here.
All right.
Now, if you'll quickly do a show labels, you'll see a label associated with EMV of death is now removed
from Port One.
Now, along with this sense in production environments, we will be using the YAML based file, will
not be extensively using the cube.
It'll run command to create the ports.
So it is also important for us to know in Yemen where exactly a label can be attached.
So when you do a cube, it'll run engine x followed by the image of engine x will quickly do a dry run
is equal to client with the output of yaml.
This is something that we have already seen earlier.
Now if you'll see there is a label of run is equal to engine x.
So this label is part of the metadata.
Always remember this that whenever you want to create a label for a port through YAML, the label goes
inside the metadata field along with the name of the port.
Now you can also associate multiple labels in case if you want to.
In fact, let's quickly look into it.
We'll run the same command and we'll store it to label hyphen port YAML and within the file you have
the labels that is attached.
Along with that, let's say you want to add one more label again, let's say N and we'll say def.
We'll save the change from the ClA.
Let's do a cube so it'll apply on the label hyphen port yaml.
So the port is created.
Let's quickly do a cubes.
It'll get ports which show labels.
We should see that we have an engine export and this engine export has two labels that are associated
with it.
Now along with that, you can also do a few interesting things.
Let's quickly look into it.
In fact, you can do a cube, ctrl label, hyphen, hyphen health.
And within here one of the interesting things that you can do is you can also update all the ports in
a specific namespace.
So the overall command is very simple cube, ctrl, label ports, you specify hyphen, hyphen, all,
and then you specify the name of the label that you want to associate with.
Let's quickly try it out.
So let's first quickly do Cube.
It'll show labels.
So this is our initial reference.
Now let's do a cube.
So it'll label ports, hyphen, hyphen, all, and let's say status is equal to running.
All right, so all the four ports have been labeled here.
If you do a cube, it'll get ports once more.
You will see all of these ports have a status of running over here.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of labels and selectors.
Now do note that in Kubernetes you will extensively be using labels and selectors.
So it is very important that you understand these concepts quite thoroughly.
Now, generally in Kubernetes will be using labels and selectors quite extensively in terms of YAML
file.
So whenever we create replica set deployments, that is where the labels and selectors are used very
extensively.
Grid And one last thing before we conclude the video, you can go ahead and delete all the ports that
we have created with Cube, Ctrl, delete, ports, hyphen, hyphen, all.
So this way we'll have a clean environment for next video.

--- Document - Labels and Selectors ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of ReplicaSets ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will be discussing about replica sets.
Now, the purpose of a replica set is to maintain a stable set of replica pods running at any given
moment of time.
So we can understand this with a simple diagram here where you have a replica set and within the replica
set you have two configuration settings.
One is the desired state and second is image.
So here the desired state is equal to three and the image is enginex.
So now what?
Replica set will do is that it will maintain three pods of the nginx always running within your Kubernetes
cluster.
So that is the purpose of replica set.
It always maintains the desired amount of state of the pods from the images that you have specified
to the replica set.
Now within here there are two important terms that you need to remember.
One is the desired state and second is the current state.
So the desired state is basically the state of pods which is desired at any given moment of time.
And the current state is the actual state of Pod which are currently running within your Kubernetes
cluster.
So in this diagram, the desired state is three.
That basically means that you would like to have three replicas of a pod from a nginx image to be always
up and running.
Now the current state is also three because currently there are three pods which are running.
So let's say that due to some reason the pod two has stopped working.
So now what will happen is the current state will change from 3 to 2 because currently there are only
two pods which are actively running.
However, the desired state is three.
So now what your replica set will try to do is it will go ahead and it will launch a new pod so that
your desired state matches the current state.
Now do remember here that replica set will always try and maintain the desired state is equal to current
state.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the practical and look into how exactly it might look like.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly do one thing.
Let's do a kubectl get pods.
Now currently you will see that there are three pods which are currently running.
Now this is very similar to what we were discussing where you have a replica set and there are three
pods which are currently running as part of the replica set.
So now if you do a kubectl get replica set, you see that there is one replica set.
The name of that replica set is frontend, the desired is three, current is three and ready is three.
So this is part of the replica set.
Now as we were discussing that if your desired state is three and if due to some reason one of the pods
stops working or two pod stops working and similar replica set will launch new pods so that it always
maintains the desired state which has been configured.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and do a kubectl get pods again.
And what we'll do is this thing we'll go ahead and do a kubectl delete pod and we'll delete one of the
pods which have been created through the replica set.
All right.
So the pod is now deleted.
So now when you do a kubectl get pods again, you see that one more pod was automatically launched here.
So the age of this pod is 17 seconds.
So this pod was automatically launched by the replica set because in the earlier command we had deleted
one of the pods and the total count did not match the current set.
And this is the reason why the replica set automatically had created one more pod so that it matches
the desired state with the current state.
So that's the high level overview about replica sets.
I hope at a overview you understood what replica sets are all about.
So that's about it in today's overview video.
In the next video we'll go ahead and implement replica sets and look into the configuration options.
So I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating our first ReplicaSet ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we had an overview about what replica sets are all about, along with a
small demo.
So what we'll do today is we'll be implementing replica sets through Yaml file so the overall concepts
become much more clear for us.
Now I'm in the Kubernetes documentation for the replica sets, and within this documentation you have
an example based on the Yaml file for replica sets.
So we will be using this specific example in today's practical.
So let me just copy this up and I'll paste it within the atom editor.
Now do remember that even for exams you do not really have to write all of these things from scratch.
You have to have the habit of going through the documentation quickly, taking the examples and modifying
it according to the question that it states.
So this is a simple example.
Let's look into what exactly this is.
So the first one here is the API version, and the API version here is Apps hyphen version one.
So the replica set object is part of the apps slash version one.
So if you quickly want to verify.
So currently if you see that this is the available APIs, so let's look into apps hyphen version one.
So this is the exact path.
Let's go ahead and use this path.
And within the apps slash version one, you will see that there are various resources like controller
revisions, daemonsets deployments which are available now.
Along with that, you also have the replica sets which are available.
So this is the replica set that we are interested in.
And since this replica set is within the apps slash version one, the API version here is app slash
version one.
So the kind here is replica set similar to what we had seen.
So if you look into this within the kind section, there is a replica set here.
So similar is found here.
Now within the metadata, you are giving a name to the replica set.
So here the name which is given is frontend.
So let's call it as KB Labs hyphen replica set so that it is easier for us to identify.
Now, along with that, you are also attaching a label to the replica set.
Now this is not required, so let's just remove it for the time being so that we can have a minimal
template.
Now in the spec section you are specifying how many replicas are needed.
So currently there are three replicas.
However, you can even specify five replicas if you need five replicas to be always up and running.
Now after this, you have a very important section of selector, so this is a quite important section
of selector.
Now within selector, what we are doing is we are matching the label where the key is tier and the value
is front end.
We'll just come to it in a moment here.
Now after this section, you have a template section here.
So this template section is nothing but the template associated with the resource of pod.
Now, let me quickly also open up the resource pod so it becomes easier to understand.
Now what generally happens within the template section is that you do not really give the API version
as well as the kind.
So this is something that you can ignore and you can start from the metadata section.
So from metadata and spec field are something that you can specify over here.
And similarly you see you have a metadata which is empty and you are attaching a label to the pods which
will be created.
So currently you have specified replicas of five.
That means five pods will be created and all of these five pods will have a label where the tier is
equal to front end.
So it will have this labels.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what template section is now again to revise if we
are using template.
So this template is of pod.
So if you are specifying a template here, you do not have to specify again the API version and the
kind the kind of replica set takes care of those things internally.
So within the spec what you are doing, you have a container, the name is PHP, hyphen Redis and this
is the image.
All right, so let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and save this.
So the file name is replica set dot yaml and let's go ahead and apply the replica set dot yaml file.
All right.
So the replica set has been created.
Now if you do a kubectl get replica set you will see that you have a new replica set.
The name is a replica set.
The desired state is five.
The current state is five and the ready is zero.
Now the reason why ready is zero is generally it can happen when the containers are in the creation
stage and in a similar approach.
So as expected, currently you see that there are five pods which are currently running.
So now again, if you do a cube, Ctl get replica set within the ready, you will see that you have
five as the count here.
Now, as we have already discussed, replica set will always try and maintain the desired amount of
pods.
So let's try this out.
Let's do a cube, Ctl delete pod and we'll go ahead and we'll delete the first pod.
All right.
So once you have deleted the first pod, when you do a cube, Ctl get pods again.
Replica set will again start one more pod.
So currently you see there is a new pod which just started 19 seconds before, and this pod was automatically
started by the replica set.
Now if you do a cube, Ctl get pods with show labels, you will see that all of them have a label of
TR is equal to front end.
Now this is very similar where we had explicitly specified a label of TR is equal to front end here.
So this label is associated with the pod.
Now you have one more label here.
So this label is basically for the replica set.
To see how many pods are running.
So basically replica sets looks into the labels here.
So here it sees that there is one pod with a label of TR is equal to front end, so it counts the replica
as one.
Then again, it sees that there is a second pod which is running with the label of TR is equal to front
end.
Then it counts that the replica the current replica is two.
Similarly, you have current replica is three, current replica is four and current replica is five.
So this is the reason why it is very important to remember that this specific selector should match
the labels that you associate with the pods.
Otherwise there will be a lot of issues.
All right.
Now, along with that, do remember that each object here has a short name.
So here the short name associated with the replica set is RS, so you can even make use of RS here.
So you can do Cube Ctl get RS and it will give you the similar result here.
So now let's go ahead and delete the replica set.
So I'll say cube Ctl delete hyphen replica set.
All right, so now the replica set is deleted.
So now let me show you one more interesting thing.
So let's do one thing.
Let's say selector is front end hyphen pods and the label associated with the pod is different.
So now let's go ahead and apply the replica set.
And now you see it directly gave us an error saying that the label within the template does not match
the label within the selector.
So this label within the template is not matching the label, which is part of the selector.
So always remember that whatever label that you give within the selector should match the label which
you assign within the template section under the metadata field.
So that's the high level overview about replica sets.
I hope this video has been informative for you and again, I'd really encourage you to try this out
because these are some of the important things that you will be using within your production environments.
So we'll conclude this video with this.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - ReplicSets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction to Deployments ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will be discussing about deployments.
Now, before we go ahead and understand deployments, you need to understand the challenges that you
might face when you just use replica sets.
Now, in replica sets, you get a basic functionality related to managing pods, scaling pods and similar.
So let's say that you have a replica set here which has three pods.
So currently the desired state is three.
Now tomorrow you might want five pods.
So now what do you do?
You go ahead and change the desired state of your replica set and replica set will launch two more pods
so that the current state becomes five.
So for such basic functionality you can go ahead and make use of replica sets.
However, if you want certain important functionalities related to rolling out changes, rolling back
changes and so on, then you need to go with deployments.
Now deployment provides a replication functionality with the help of replica sets along with various
additional capabilities like rolling out changes, rolling back changes and so on if required.
So you have a deployment set which sits at the top.
Now, deployment set in turn.
It makes use of replica sets to achieve the replication capability related to pods.
So this is the basic functionality.
Now along with that deployment can also do various things like rollback, it can maintain the application
revisions and so on.
So let's understand some of the benefits of deployments.
The first one is rolling out changes.
Now what happens here is that you can roll out new updates to your application using deployments.
Now let's say that you are managing your Kubernetes within your organization.
So it might happen that every few days there will be a new version of your application which has been
tested and you want to roll out that new version of your application.
So what would happen is let's understand this.
So you have a deployment, deployment uses replica set and basically you have one pod.
Now tomorrow there is a new version of your application which has been released and you want to make
sure that your production has that new version.
So now what deployment will do?
Deployment will create one more replica set.
It will launch a pod with the latest version of your application here, and then it will go ahead and
connect to that replica set.
Now, once your new version of your application is created, then deployment will go ahead and remove
the older version of your application.
All right.
So this approach makes sure that whenever a new version of your application is deployed, the application
is not down because application not being down is a very important aspect.
And whenever you update, you have to make sure that your application does not go down and deployment
takes care of that.
Now, the second important benefit of deployment is rollback of changes.
Now what would happen many times is that let's say you have deployed a new version of your application
and due to some reason, the application is giving a lot of issues to your clients or to the end facing
users.
So now what you would like to do is you would like to rollback from the latest update to the previous
working update, which was working perfectly.
So in this case, you can easily do it with the deployments now deployment behind the scenes.
Ultimately it uses replica sets.
However, it provides a lot of additional capabilities like rolling out changes, rolling back changes
and so on.
Now let's do one thing before we conclude this video.
I'll quickly show you a small demo.
So that it can be better understood.
So I'll do a cube.
Ctl get deployments.
Now you will see that there is one deployment which is currently available.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's look into the rollout history associated with this deployment.
Now you will see that there are multiple revisions which had been made to this specific application.
So you have a revision.
Two, you have a revision, three, you have revision four and you have revision five.
So let's say that you have switched to revision two and due to some reason there are a lot of errors
which are happening in this specific revision.
So now what you can do is you can roll back to revision one or you can even change your application
revision two, version three, version four and version five and similar.
So that is one of the advantages of deployments that you can not only look into the rollout history
to see on what are the updated.
Changes that have been happening to your application, but you can also roll back to a specific revision
in case if your latest version of your application is giving you an issue.
So that's the high level overview about deployments.
Again, we will be discussing in great detail in practical aspect in the upcoming videos related to
rolling out changes, also rolling back and few other important topics associated with deployments.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
Now, this video was aimed primarily to give you a high level overview of what deployments are all about.
However, the practical is kept for the upcoming videos.
So I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating our first deployment ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be creating our first deployment and we'll look into some of the functionalities
which deployment offers.
Now, in the introduction video to Deployments, we already understood the basics about deployments
and how it uses replica sets and some additional capabilities to have features like rolling updates,
rollback changes and others.
So let's jump into the practical and understand on how deployments would work.
Now, if you would have gone through the video associated with the replica sets, you would already
know the structure and the importance of every field within the Yaml file.
So what we'll do.
We'll make few changes here.
Now, since we are working with deployments, the kind here would change to deployment.
And along with that you can also change the name so that it is easier for us to identify, I'll call
it as KP Labs hyphen deployment.
So this is the only thing which is required.
Now let's do one thing from the terminal.
Let's go ahead and apply the deployment dot yaml file.
So here it says that you have a deployment called as KP Labs hyphen deployment, which has been created.
Now when you do a kubectl get deployments here, you will see that you have one deployment which is
created.
The name is Labs Hyphen Deployment.
Now we already discussed that deployment makes use of replica sets to make sure that there are always
a specific number of replicas which are running now even within your deployments dot yaml you see within
the spec field you specify the replicas and here you have specified five.
So what would happen is deployment would create a replica set which would have a desired state of five.
So in order to understand that you can do a cube, Ctl get replica set and you will see that there is
one replica set which is created which has a desired number of five.
And if you do a kubectl get pods, you should see that there are five pods which are currently running.
So these five pods which are currently running, these five pods are managed by replica set and replica
set in turn is managed by the deployments.
So now that we are aware about basics on how you can create a deployment, let's look into one of the
major features of deployment which is rolling out of changes.
Now we already have the architecture here where we have a deployment, we have a replica set and we
have n number of pods within the replica set.
So the next thing, let's say you want to update the application.
So now what deployment will do?
Deployment will create a new replica set.
It will launch all the pods within that replica set and that replica set will be connected to the deployment.
Now once this pods within the replica set is running perfectly, then deployment will go ahead and it
will remove the pods associated with the previous application.
So this is one of the ways in which you can roll out changes with the deployments.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try this out and look into how exactly it might look like now within the deployments
dot yaml file.
Within the spec section, you see the image through which the pods are launching is enginex.
So let's assume that this is the version one of the application.
So tomorrow let's say you want to specify a custom enginex version here.
Now if you look into the Nginx official Docker image, there are a lot of versions which are available.
So let's say that now in the second version of our application, we want to use the Nginx version one
point 17.3.
So what I can do, I can say one point 17.3.
All right.
So I have updated my application here, so I'll go ahead and I'll save this.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and apply the changes within the deployments dot yaml file.
Now when you do a kubectl get replica set you will see that there are two replica sets which are created
here.
Now this is very similar to the architecture where we were discussing that in order for a new roll out
change to happen, deployment will create a second replica set and this second replica set will have
the new version of your pods running.
Now, along with that, it will go ahead and it will also start to remove the pods which are present
within the older replica set in a roll out fashion.
So let's do a kubectl get replica sets yet again and you would see that the older replica set there
are zero pods which are currently present and the newer replica set, it has all the pods which are
currently running.
So this new replica set has the latest version of the Nginx image which is running.
So in order to understand this in a better way, let's go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl Describe deployment followed by your deployment name.
So this will basically give you information about your deployment.
Now, one of the important section here is the event section, because this section will basically give
us more detail about how the rollout of changes happen.
Now, the first step that it had done was it had created a replica set which had five number of pods.
So this was the first event when we had created our first deployment.
After this first event, what we had done, we had updated the Nginx image to one point 17.3.
So now what deployments did It created a new replica set.
So if you would see here, the replica set name here starts with five, five, eight.
However, the replica set name earlier was 95.
So it's the second event occurred after we updated the image within our deployment dot yaml file.
So now what it did, it created a new replica set and it launched two pods within that replica set.
Now once both of these spots started to run, then it scaled down the older replica set here.
So if you would see it scaled down one of the pods which were running in the older replica set.
Now once this scaled down event happened, it again launched a new pod within the new replica set.
And after a new pod got launched in the new replica, set it again, scaled down one pod in the older
replica set.
And at the last what happened?
You had all the pods from the older replica sets which were scaled down and all the pods in the new
replica sets were launched.
So this is the new replica set where you have five pods which are currently running.
However, the older replica set where the older version of your application was running, that replica
set has zero pods.
So when you do a kubectl get replica set, you would see that deployment basically maintains both the
replica sets here.
Now one important part to remember so how this would happen.
So one question that would come is whether you can change the way this would work.
And the answer is definitely.
So basically, if you go a bit up here under the rolling update strategy, it says 25% maximum unavailable.
So you can change the way in which the scaling up and scaling down of replica would happen.
So if you change the rolling update strategy here.
So before we conclude, let me quickly show you one thing.
Now, when you run a Kubectl rollout history command, it basically maintains the revision associated
with your changes.
So earlier, if you remember, we had a simple nginx image and that was revision one.
Now later we change the nginx image and that was associated with the revision two.
So if you want to get more information, you can say revision one and it basically will tell you that
here the image was nginx.
Now if you do revision two here, you can see the exact changes which were made.
So within the revision two you see the image has been changed from Nginx to Nginx 1.7.3.
So this revision is a great functionality because what can happen is let's say that you have shifted
to revision two and there are a lot of issues which are happening in revision two.
So then you can go ahead and even roll back to the previous revision, which was known to be working
well for your customers.
So coming back to it, let's look into some of the important pointers that you need to remember associated
with deployments.
The first important pointer here is that deployment ensures that only a certain number of pods are down
while your application is updated.
Now, by default, it ensures that at least 25% of the desired number of pods are up.
That basically means that 25% maximum of the pods would remain unavailable.
Now this is very important.
So let's let's say, for example, that you have a deployment where there are three pods.
Now you are updating your application.
So deployment can depending upon the strategy and your configuration deployment can at a time bring
down all the three pods of your application.
So at that.
Moment of time, your application would lead to 100% of downtime.
All right.
So you do not want that.
You do not want deployment to.
Immediately terminate all your pods of your running application because that would lead to your downtime.
So what you might want that it let's say that there are three pods which are running deployment can
go ahead and terminate one pod.
So two pods are still running which will serve your traffic.
Now along with that deployment, will go ahead and launch one more pod of your new application.
All right.
Now, one more part of your new application is launch.
It is working perfectly.
Then maybe deployment can go ahead and remove one more pod of your previous application.
It can go ahead and launch one more pod of your new application.
Then remove the older pod and launch the third pod associated with the new application.
So it all depends upon the strategy and your configurations which you do to your deployment within your
environment.
And along with that, the third very important point here is that deployment keeps the history of the
revision which has been made.
This is something that we have already seen.
So that's the high level overview about deployments.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - Deployments ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- maxSurge and maxUnavailable ---

Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we are going to discuss about the Mac's search and Mac's unavailable options
in deployments.
Now, whenever you perform an update in deployments, there are two important options that you need
to know.
First one is the Mac's search, and second one is the Mac's unavailable.
So the Mac's search basically defines the maximum number of ports that can be scheduled above the original
number of ports.
So let's take an example.
Let's say that you have a deployment and that deployment has a total of five ports.
So basically are starting a deployment with the replicas of five.
Now you have gone ahead and you want to set a different image.
So let's say that the deployment with five replicas is running based on engine X image and now you set
to the Apache image.
So when that update happens to the deployment during the update process, what generally happens is
a new set of ports are created on top of the existing ports.
So let's say the existing port is five.
For an example, two more ports will be created.
So let's say then at the end of time there will be seven ports and after the two new ports based on
Apache image are running to older ports based on engine x image would be removed.
Similar would be as part of the rolling update.
So this is just a high level example.
The second one is the max available, which defines the maximum number of ports that can be unavailable
during the update.
Now, again, this is also an important option because let's say that you have a deployment rate of
two and depending upon the number of visitors that are visiting your website, you need at least two
replica ports to be available at an instant of time.
Now let's say that you modified the image associated with the port deployment and now what will happen
is one of the port will be removed for a few seconds during the update process.
So during that few seconds only one replica would be running.
So that would mean that half of the visitors who are visiting your website, they will either get an
error or the connection would become very slow.
So depending upon the use case of your organization, you can go ahead and configure both of these configuration
parameter accordingly.
So let's do one thing.
In order to better understand this, we'll go ahead and quickly create a new deployment.
We'll just call it as demo deployment.
We'll use the image of engine X and we'll use the replicas of three.
All right.
So now if you do a use, it'll get ports.
We have three ports that are running.
Now, if you'll quickly do a cube, it'll get deployment on the demo deployment order with the output
of yaml.
Let's go beta.
Now within this strategy of rolling update here, you will see that the max search is 25% and max unavailable
is 25%.
So this would mean that during the deployment process it can happen, that there would be additional
number of ports that will be running at an instant of time or there will be a little less number of
ports that will be running at an instant of time during the deployment process.
So let's do one thing now.
Let's go ahead and set the image of our deployment from engineers to Apache.
So this would trigger a new update.
Now when you do work, you still get boards over here.
At this moment, you see that there are three parts that are running.
And in addition to these three ports, there is one more port that is being created.
Now, it can also happen that at an instant of time there will only be two parts that will be running
and the third part will be in the creation state.
Now, one of the challenges here is that let's say that your worker node is only capable of running
three parts.
It does not have any capacity of running the fourth port.
But if you see there is also a fourth port that is being created.
So depending upon the overall configuration, the hardware that you have, you can go ahead and modify
the unavailable and the search and depending upon that, the port operation would take place.
So at this stage, since there is a new port that is running, you can consider it to be max search.
Or because Max Search defines the maximum number of ports that can be scheduled above the original number
of ports.
So since the original number of ports is already three and one more port is been created, it comes
under max search.
Now let's take an example use case.
Let's say the total number of ports in your deployment is eight and you have a default configuration
where max is 25% max unavailable is 25%.
Now you go ahead and perform some update to your deployment.
It can be your setting up a new image for an example.
So during the update process, since the max search is 25%, that 25% of eight is two.
And similarly, the 25% of eight is two four max and available.
All right.
So this would mean that during the update process of your deployment, at most of ten ports would be
running where eight is the current ports and two ports are from the max search parameter.
So this is one case.
Second cases, at least of six ports would be running where six are the current ports and two is the
max unavailable port.
So you have to subtract it because max unavailable determines the maximum number of ports that can be
unavailable during the update.
All right.
So this is how the calculation would work.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and modify these parameters.
What we want is let's say that our worker node hardly has any resources left.
It can only run three ports, nothing about reports.
So in such scenario, when you want to perform a deployment based update, what parameter you will update?
You will update the max search and what is the value of max search that you will give you will give
the value of Max zero.
Okay.
Before we do that, let's quickly do a cube so it'll get pause over here.
At this stage, there are three ports that are running.
Now, let's go ahead and quickly edit the deployment of demo deployment.
And within here, let's go a bit down the max search parameter.
You can either define it in percentage or you can either directly define it in number terms.
So I'll say zero over here and I'll save the change and I'll close the editor.
And our deployment is now edited.
So in the earlier example, since a new port was created, which is the fourth port this time since
we had specified Max as zero, you will not see fourth port been created at all.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So we'll go ahead and set the image from Apache back to Engineers.
Will you still get pots quickly?
And this time you see, instead of adding a new foot paw what it did, it removed one paw.
So one part was removed.
And in place of that one paw, a new part has been created.
But at the instant of time there will only be three parts.
They will never be a foot paw that will be created during the update process.
Now again, note that in such kind of approach where for a few seconds only two parts are running and
they are serving the traffic, and if you are getting huge number of requests and you need at least
three parts to serve the request for some amount of time, for a few seconds, you will see that there
will be some traffic interruption for some amount of users.
So again, it really depends upon many use cases.
Each one of them comes with its own advantages and disadvantages when we discuss about Max and Max unavailable.
So depending upon the configuration that you have in your environment, you can go ahead and use the
max search and Max unavailable accordingly.
So one last thing before we conclude.
As we are discussing, you can define the max search and max and available in both the numeric as well
as the percentage terms.
So max unavailable is zero max or ten.
So instead of defining it in percentage terms, you can also say max orders to max and available as
to.
This is also something that can work great.
So that's the high level overview and with this will conclude today's video.

--- Document - Deployment Configuration ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kubernetes Secrets ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about Kubernetes secrets.
So before we go ahead and discuss more about Kubernetes secret, let's look into a typical challenge
which almost all of the organization has to go through.
So let's say that you have an application which basically runs on a pod and it needs to connect to a
MySQL database to initialize so that it starts to work properly.
So you have a pod and you have your MySQL database.
And this app basically needs to authenticate to the MySQL database.
Now, in order for the application to start working, it has to authenticate.
So what in a typical organization generally happens is that the developer hard codes the credentials.
All right.
So what would happen is that you have a pod.
So this pod basically launches from a specific Docker image and the developer would hardcode the credentials.
Like here you see you have a DB underscore user as admin and db underscore password as my password.
So these are the credentials which are hardcoded within the Docker image by itself.
All right.
So since these credentials are hardcoded, once your application starts, it can directly authenticate
with the username and password with the MySQL database.
So this kind of approach is something that you will see in a lot of organizations, which is still happening.
Now there are a lot of risks if you work with this type of approach.
So let's look into some of them.
First, is anyone having access to the container repository can easily fetch the credentials.
Now, since these credentials are basically within the Docker image itself, any user who has access
to the container repository where the Docker image is stored, he'll be able to read the credentials
from the Docker image.
Second is, developer needs to have credentials of the production system.
So if this is a production MySQL database, then since the developer would be building his own Docker
image, the dev team will have to give developer the username and password in plain text.
So again, this is a big no no.
And third is updating of credentials will lead to a new Docker image being built.
Now generally what happens is that let's say that you have a compliance policy where you have to rotate
your DB credentials every 90 days.
So every 90 days you will have to rebuild your Docker image considering that the credentials are hardcoded.
So these are the three important things that needs to be considered.
So what happens is that instead of hard coding the credentials, what you can do is you can store the
credentials centrally.
So what you have now is you have a central secret store, and within this central secret store, you
store your credentials here and your application does not have any hardcoded credentials.
So whenever a pod gets launched, what your application can do is that it can fetch the credentials
from a central secret store.
And once it fetches the credentials, it can use that credentials to authenticate with your MySQL database.
All right.
So the first step is you put your credentials to a central secret store.
Second step is that app can fetch that credentials and step three is the authentication part.
So there are three advantages here.
First is that you do not really store the credentials within the pod.
All right.
So your pod does not really have the credentials hardcoded.
So even if someone goes ahead and reads your Docker image, he will not find anything.
Second is the developer will not have the credentials.
All the developer will have to do is that they will have to write a logic to pull the credentials from
a central secret store, and that's about it.
So the developer will not have access to credentials.
So that is the second big advantage.
The third advantage is that since the credentials are not hard coded, even if the credentials are changed,
your Docker image will not have to be rebuilt.
So that is the third advantage here.
Now the question is who will put the credentials here?
So if let's say that you have a DB credentials, then you can assign a DB team member who can put the
credentials within the central secret store.
All right.
So the DB team can put the credentials within the central secret store and they can manage it.
So let's say after 90 days, if your password is changing, then they can go ahead and update a password
within the central secret store.
And that's about it.
All right.
So if you look into the app code here, so you have a two scenario.
First scenario is where the credentials were hardcoded.
So if you look here username as admin and the password is within the plain text here.
All right.
So you have a hardcoded credentials and in the second approach here within the password, you have a
logic here.
So this logic can fetch the credentials from a central secret store so you no longer have the plaintext
password within your application code.
Now the question that comes is what exactly is this central secret store?
Now, from the name itself, we can identify that this is a place where the credentials can be stored
centrally and Kubernetes secrets is exactly what it does.
Now, Kubernetes secret is not the only one which provides this solution.
There are various other solutions which can also be used.
So one of the famous ones is AWS Secrets Manager.
So Secrets manager again, is a very mature solution.
And a lot of organizations, they make use of this.
Then you also have the parameter store, which can also be used as a central secret store where the
credentials can be stored.
Now, another mature solution here is the Hashicorp vault, where your central secrets can be stored,
and it can be fetched by the App Pod to do various operations like authenticating against the database.
So there are a lot of solutions which are available.
Now, since we are preparing for the Kubernetes certification, our solution to understand would be
the Kubernetes secrets.
Now, a secret is basically an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data such as a password,
a token or a key.
Now, as expected, basically it allows customers to store the secrets centrally to reduce the risk
of exposure.
So it can be better understood with this diagram where you have a Kubernetes secret and now you are
basically storing your credentials within the Kubernetes secrets.
So anyone who wants to fetch the credentials, they can directly get it from the Kubernetes secrets.
Now, in order to create a Kubernetes secret, as far as the is concerned, the command is pretty straightforward.
So you have a kubectl create secret, then you have a type.
So there are three types.
One is generic, second is Docker registry, third is TLS.
Then you have a name of the secret and then you have the actual data.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the practical so that this becomes much more easier for us to understand.
Now from the CLI.
If you do a kubectl get secret, you will see that there is one secret which comes by default.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create our own secret.
I'll say kubectl create secret.
Now, the next thing here is the type.
So there are three types.
We are more interested in a generic type.
So let's add a generic.
Then you have the name.
So that is basically the name of the secret.
So let's call it as first secret.
So you can give any name here.
And then within generic as well, there are three approaches, so you can load a secret from a file.
So in case if you have a file, you can do that, you can load it from a directory, you can even load
it from a literal value.
So let's say from literal and let's use a name, let's call it as DB pass.
And the password would be say my password.
One, two, three.
All right.
So now you see that our secret is created.
So if you quickly do a cube Ctl get secret, you will see that you have a secret called as first secret
which is available.
And if you do a cube Ctl describe secret followed by the secret name.
These are the data which are available now.
Here you'll only see the DB pass.
You will not really see the value which was associated with it.
So the value is basically the secret.
So now if you want to read the secret here, you can quickly do a cube Ctl get secret followed by the
secret name with the O of Yaml.
So when you do that now you see you have a DB pass here followed by a value.
However, we had not really added this value.
Our password was quite simple.
Now what secret does is that the value here it needs to be within the base64 encoded format and this
is the reason why it is giving you a Base64 encoded version of the password.
So you can quickly decode it.
So I have one more terminal open with a Linux box so you can quickly decode this specific value with
base64.
Now in case if you do not have a Linux and you are running on Windows, you can go through websites.
Basically there are a lot of websites which provides base64 decoder online.
So now you see you basically got my password one, two, three over here.
All right.
So this is one of the approaches in which you can create a secret.
So we had discussed about secret in terms of literal value.
Now you can also load the secret from a file, so let's try this out.
So here within the file called as credentials dot txt, I have added a simple password over here.
So now what we'll do, we'll basically add a secret with the option of file.
So let's do that.
I'll do a cube.
Ctl create secret.
We'll use generic.
The name is second secret and this time we'll make use of from file and you can just specify the name
of the file.
In our case it is credentials dot txt.
So it is giving an error over here.
And we had made a small typo.
So if you see it says available command Docker registry generic.
And as we were discussing, so what we did here is we made a small typo here in the spelling, so let
me improve it.
And now if you do, you see it has created a secret for us.
So similarly, if you do a cube Ctl get secret, you should see that a second secret is created.
So these are some of the ways in which you can create a secret.
Now let's also explore the Yaml option here.
So the Yaml file is quite simple.
So you have a kind of secret.
The API version is one you have given a name, let's call it as third secret so that it's easier for
us to understand.
And then within the data section you have a username and you have a password.
So let's say the username in our case is DB admin and the password here is my password.
One, two, three.
All right, let's go ahead and save this and let's do a kubectl apply.
Hon secret hyphen data dot yaml.
And now you see it immediately gave an error saying that it is a bad request.
Now the reason why it is saying it as a bad request is because we have actually added the data in plain
text.
However, it needs the encoded version.
So what we'll have to do is we'll have to encode both of these data.
So let's do that quickly.
So within the Linux terminal, let's do a Base64.
So let's copy this up and I'll paste it within the username.
So we'll do the same thing for password.
Let's copy this app.
All right.
So once we have the base64 encoded values, we'll do a save and let's run the same command again.
So now you see it says that the third secret is created.
Now, if you do a kubectl get secret here, you have a third secret.
And if you quickly want to verify, we'll do a kubectl get secret on output of Yaml.
And within the data section here, you will see that you have a username and you have a password.
And as expected, both of them are within the base64 encoded value.
So now what you will have to do is you will have to decode it from your side.
So this kind of approach is also referred as a data section here.
So this is a secret with data.
Now you also have an option where you can specify a string data.
So what happens within the string data is that you can directly put your credentials without having
to encode it.
And with the string data, what happens is that during the time of upload, your credentials will automatically
be encoded, so you don't really have to worry about encoding things manually.
All right, so let's try this out as well.
So let's do a kubectl apply.
On string data dot yaml and now you see it is working perfectly well.
So if you do kubectl get secret.
So the name of the secret is string data.
So that's the high level overview about Kubernetes secrets.
I hope you understood the benefits about Kubernetes secrets and why it should be used.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - Commands for Generating Secrets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mounting Secrets Inside Pods ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about mounting secrets in containers.
Now, till now, we have been looking into the basics on how you can create a secret.
And we also looked into how we can access the secret with the help of Kubectl Command.
However, generally, whenever you create a secret, the purpose of the secret is to make it available
to your application, which is running within your cluster.
And there are several approaches in which you can make your secret available to a container.
So one of the primary method is by making use of volumes, and second is by making use of environment
variables.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into practical and understand both of these approaches.
So I went to my CLI and if I quickly do a kubectl get secret.
There are multiple secrets which are available and we had already created this in the first video.
Now, if you quickly do a kubectl get secret on the first secret that we had created on the output of
Yaml, so basically it contains the secret where your key is passed and the value is your secret here.
So the first method that we'll be making use today is the volume method.
Now within this Yaml file, if you look here, the first section is pretty straightforward.
We are just creating a pod.
Now this is something that we already know.
Now the second aspect here, the second section is associated with the volume mount.
So what we are basically doing, we have a volume of foo, the mount path is e.t.c. foo.
So this is the directory and this is a read only directory.
And we are associating our secret call as the first secret within this specific mount path.
Now again, we'll be discussing in detail about the volume mounts during the section of storage.
However, at a high level overview, just remember that whatever secret that you have basically in this
case, first secret will be available in this specific directory inside the container.
So let's try it out.
So I'll clear the screen and let's quickly do a kubectl apply on the secret pod Yaml.
And it says that our secret pod is created.
Now if you quickly do a cube Ctl get pods, you should see that there is one pod within the container
creating stage.
So let's run this again.
And now our pod is within the running state.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's exit into the pod here.
All right.
So we have gone inside the container.
And if you remember that during the Yaml file, we had a mount path of foo.
So if you go to foo and do an LS, you will see that you have a file called DB Pass and the output of
the file will basically be the password which was associated with the key of DB pass.
So this is how you can mount your secrets inside a specific container.
So now application can use this specific password to authenticate against the specific database.
So in this approach, since you have your secret mounted in a specific directory, it comes under the
category of volumes here.
Now you also have a second approach in which you can share the secret inside a container, and that
is through the environment variables.
So I have one more file called as secret hyphen env dot yaml.
Now this file is also quite similar.
Now within the first section you have a section associated with creating a pod.
And in the next section here what you are doing here you have basically a name.
So this is the name associated with the environment variable, which is a secret username and the value
associated with it is being referenced.
So this is a secret key reference.
It is referenced from our secret call as first secret.
And the key is pass.
So whatever value which is associated with the key of DB pass in the secret of first secret will be
associated with the secret underscore username environment variable.
So let's go ahead and save this and look into how exactly this might look like.
So let's exit out of the container and let's do a kubectl apply on secret env dot yaml.
So this would have created a container.
Let's go ahead and do a get pod.
So this is the container which is in the creating stage.
So let's go ahead and exec into the container.
All right.
So now we are within the container.
Now in the environment variable type of approach, you have an environment variable which would have
been created called as secret underscore username.
And this environment variable will basically have the value associated with the secret.
So this is one of the approaches where your secret can be associated with a specific environment variable
and your application can basically fetch the value associated with a given environment variable to get
the secret back.
Now, do remember that in both the approaches that we were discussing in Volume Mount as well as within
the environment variable, the secret which is being made available to the container is not encoded,
it is within the decoded format.
So you don't really have to worry about your application having to decode the secret before using it.
So since it is decoded, you can use it directly and this leads to a much more easier approach while
referencing it within the applications.
So that's the high level overview about how you can mount the secrets within your containers.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - Mounting Secrets in Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding ConfigMaps ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
So in today's video, we'll be discussing about config maps.
Now, config maps is a pretty important topic.
Specifically if you're working as a developer and even if you're working as an administrator, config
maps are something that you will be extensively using within your Kubernetes environment.
So let's go ahead and understand config maps with a simple use case.
So let's understand the use case here.
So let's assume that we have an app, a container and depending upon the environment, the configuration
settings associated with this app container will need to be changed.
So let's look into some example properties.
So let's say that you have a dev environment, so you have two pods or you can consider two containers.
Now for the dev container of app A you need certain environment like app dot env is equal to dev app
dot mem is equal to 2048M and app dot properties is equal to dev dot env dot url.
Now when this container goes to prod then you do not really want these values.
You want a new values like app dot env is changed from dev to prod app dot mem is 8096 and app dot properties
is prod dot env dot url.
Now generally what many of the organizations they do is they create two different container images.
Now in these two container images, although the application is same, but the configuration file which
has these parameters are different.
So just for that single configuration file, they have multiple container images and this is not the
best practice.
So let's say that tomorrow you want this dev dot environments configuration of app dot mem to be changed
from 204 8 to 3 096.
So what you will have to do is you will have to rebuild the entire container image.
So this is a tedious task and this is the reason why config maps proves to be very useful.
Now what config maps allows us to do is it allows us to centrally store data.
So what happens now is that instead of hard coding these things within the container image, what you
do is you centrally store this data.
So currently you're centrally storing the data associated with the dev properties and you're centrally
storing the data associated with the prod properties.
And from here you are mounting or you are referencing this central data from your container image.
Now one of the second advantages of centrally storing data is that you can dynamically change the values.
So let's say that tomorrow you want to add one more parameter within your configuration file.
If your configurations are stored centrally, then you can easily do that.
However, if your configuration files are hard coded within the container image, then if you want to
change even a certain parameter, you will have to completely rebuild that specific image.
All right, so this method of centrally storing the data is achieved with the help of config maps within
the Kubernetes.
So as you see, you have this config map object and within config map there are two config maps which
are available.
One is associated with the dev and it is mounted within the dev pod and second is associated with the
prod and it is mounted within the prod pod.
Now as we are discussing within the first slide that if you already have all of your configurations
which have been stored centrally, then you no longer need to have a separate container image.
So what you can do is you can have a single container image and depending upon which environment your
image is being deployed, let's say that you are deploying your container image within the dev environment.
Then automatically you can reference the dev config map here.
If you are pushing your container image to the prod environment, then you can directly push this prod
properties to this container image.
So instead of having two separate container images, you only have one.
And all of these properties, all of these configurations, you can mount it via the config maps.
So I hope you understood at a high level overview the importance of config maps.
Now creating config map is pretty straightforward, so you have kubectl create config map, then you
have to give the name of the config map and also the data source.
So the data source can be like a file, it can be from the directory, it can be from the literal value.
So let's jump into the practical and understand how exactly this would look.
Now I'm in my CLI and if you do a kubectl get config map you will see that currently there are no resource
found.
Basically there are no config maps which are created, so you can easily go ahead and create a config
map with kubectl.
Create config map.
Let's call it as dev hyphen config and you can say from literal and let's give one, let's say app dot
mem is equal to 2048M.
All right, so now you see a config map called as dev hyphen config is created and if you do a kubectl
get config map you will have one config map called as dev hyphen config which is created.
Now if you quickly do a output of yaml, you will see that this config map has this literal which has
the key of app dot mem and the value is 2048M.
So this is what is referred as from literal.
So if you just have this one literal value that you want to add to the config map, you can directly
pass the literal value here.
Now the second approach as we are discussing is that you can also directly reference to a file.
So let's say that you have hundreds of configurations, so instead of adding it via the literal value,
you can add it via the file.
Or if you have multiple configuration files, you can also add a directory.
Now, for a demo purpose, I have a simple file called as dev dot Properties and this file has three
key value pairs as we were discussing within the slide one itself.
These are the three key value pairs associated with the dev environment.
So since this is a file, you can directly reference this within the config map as well.
So coming back, let's clear the screen and let's create a new config map.
Let's call it as dev hyphen properties.
And this time we'll reference the file and the name of the file is dev dot properties.
All right, so now our config map has been created from the file.
That basically means that whatever configuration which was stored within the dev dot properties file,
that configuration is part of this config map.
So if you do a kubectl get config map on dev properties with the output of Yaml, you will see within
the data section over here the name is dev dot properties and it has all of these values which were
part of this specific file.
All right.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood on how we can create a config map from literal value.
We also looked into how we can create a config map from a file.
Now the next aspect is how you can mount this config map which has been created inside a pod.
Because this is important, because your pod might be running an application and your application in
turn needs this configuration files to be able to start itself.
So what you want is whenever your pod starts, all of these configurations should automatically be mounted
within your pod so that your application can access it.
So there are various ways in which you can mount it.
One of the standard ways, which is used very extensively is through volumes.
Now I already have the manifest which is available over here.
Now this manifest, the first section which is highlighted over here, this is something that I am sure
that everyone of us knows.
So what we are doing, we are creating a simple pod.
The name of the pod is config map hyphen pod and we are launching it from the nginx container over here.
So this is the first part.
The second part is also something that you should already know by now where we are basically using the
volumes, where you have the volume mounts and you have the volumes.
All right.
Now within the volume mounts, what we are doing is we are mount the mount path here is the Etsy config
and within the volumes here we are referencing the config map here.
So if you see the name of the volume is config hyphen volume, the reference here is the config map
and this property is basically the name of the config map.
So in our case the name of the config map is dev hyphen properties.
So what will happen is whatever data which was there within the dev hyphen properties will be mounted
inside the Etsy config directory of your pod.
All right, so let's try this out.
So I'll quickly save this.
Let's clear the screen and let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply.
On pod hyphen configmap dot yaml.
So now if you quickly do a kubectl get pods you will see that there is one pod which is currently running.
Now let's go ahead and quickly do a exec into this pod.
And as we were seeing within the configuration manifest, the mount path here is ATC config.
So you can go to ATC config.
If you do a LS over here, you should see that you have dev dot properties and if you do a cat on dev
dot properties you will see that you are seeing all of these three properties which were present.
So this dev dot properties is nothing but this file name that we had referenced.
So if you remember we had done from file and we had referred this dev dot properties.
So this entire file with the file name of dev dot properties is mounted inside the pod under the ATC
config directory.
All right, so I hope you understood at a high level overview what config maps are.
Now.
I will really encourage everyone of you to perform this practical.
This is very important not only for the exam perspective but also when you start to work within your
organization in your Kubernetes cluster.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - ConfigMaps ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Service ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about a very important topic called as Kubernetes service.
So let's get started.
Now, we already know that whenever you create a pod, you will have a corresponding IP address associated
with that pod.
So let's take an example that there are two pods here.
One is front end and second is backend.
So the frontend will have a specific IP address.
In this case it is 10 to 44 0.5 and the backend also has an IP address which is 1044 0.6.
So if frontend has to communicate with the backend, it can directly connect it with the IP address
which is associated with the backend pod.
So generally in organizations, what you will have is you will typically have a front end application
and that front end application will connect to the back end application to execute certain logic.
So in order for both of them to communicate, the front end would typically need the IP address to connect
to the back end.
So let's assume that within the front end configuration file you have specified the back end underscore
URL configuration parameter as 10 to 44 0.6, which is basically the IP address associated with the
back end pod.
So the front end application which is running it will refer to this configuration parameter to connect
to the back end, to send the appropriate data which would be computed by the back end servers.
Now let's assume that due to some reason, the back end pod has stopped working.
All right.
So there are some issues and this pod has stopped responding altogether.
So now if we have deployment, what would happen is deployment will go ahead and launch a new pod.
And this new pod will have a new set of IP address, which is 1040 40. ten.
So now the problem that is happening here is that the application which is running in front end within
the configuration parameter, it still has the IP address associated with the older pod, which is 10
to 44 0.6.
However, the new pod which got created, that pod has an IP address of 10 to 40 40. ten.
So this basically means that the front end application will error out.
It will start to send a lot of Http 500 back to the client.
So that basically means the front end application, although it is working, it will go ahead and it
will send a lot of error back to the client even though there is a right back end here.
So you have a new back end pod which is created here, although this back end pod is perfectly working,
the front end will error out primarily because the configuration file does not have the updated IP address
associated with the new back end pod which got created.
So this is one issue that you will typically face specifically whenever you are hardcoding the IP address
or even the DNS name associated with the pod.
Now the second issue that generally you might face is that let's say that you have a front end pod and
you have multiple back end pods.
So we have already discussed about replica sets and deployments.
It might happen that there are three back end pods now, now tomorrow, since there are a lot of requests,
this back end pod might scale to ten.
So the question is how will you update the IP addresses of all of these pods in the front end configuration
files?
Because if you're running Daemonsets, then your replica sets can scale a lot and currently there are
three tomorrow.
If there are ten, how will you constantly keep updating the configuration file of your front end?
So that is a second issue.
So in order to overcome both of these issues that we were discussing, you can make use of Kubernetes
services.
So what happens in Kubernetes services is that you create a gateway.
So here let's call this as a back end gateway.
Now this gateway can connect to all of the back end pods.
So if there are five new pods which are created, all of these five new pods will be associated with
this back end gateway.
And now only thing that front end has to do is that it has to send the request to the back end gateway.
So let's assume that this specific pod has stopped working.
So now you don't really have to worry about it because the back end gateway is present.
It can simply go ahead and not send a request to this specific back end pod.
However, the requests are still being sent to the other two pods which are running, or if there is
a new pod which gets created, it can also automatically be associated with the back end gateway.
So this back end gateway here, which acts as an intermediary layer.
So this is called as a service.
So a Kubernetes service can act as an abstraction, which can provide a single IP address and a DNS
through which pod can be accessed.
So this specific back end gateway over here, this back end Gateway, can have a IP address and the
DNS name.
So that IP address associated with this back end gateway can be configured within the configuration
file associated with the front end application.
And that back end gateway will act as a single point through which all the requests would be routed.
So this also can be understood.
With this diagram here where you have a service here so you can consider service as a back end gateway.
So this service is associated with three pods over here, similar to what we were discussing here,
where you have a service and this service can associate it with the multiple pods.
Now, since this service is associated with the multiple pods, there are a lot of things that you can
perform.
One among them is load balancing so you can load balance across multiple pods.
You can easily scale your pods.
So today you have three pods.
Tomorrow you need ten pods.
You can easily scale your pods without having to change anything at the front end.
And this is a very important use case.
So these are some of the important functionality associated with a Kubernetes service.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the demo and look into how exactly this might look like.
So I'm in my terminal.
Let's quickly do a kubectl get pods and there are four pods which are currently running.
So let's look into the second and the third pod here.
So the second and the third pod here are associated with the Nginx web server.
So you can consider that both of these pods are running a application.
So let's do one thing, let's do a kubectl get pods and we'll do a of wide.
So this will basically give you the IP address associated with all the pods.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's connect to the first pod here.
So I'll say Kubectl exec ID followed by the name of the pod.
And let's do a call on localhost.
And the output of this is this is an Nginx container too.
Now, in a similar way, let's run the Curl command associated with the second Nginx container.
And this container is returning the output saying that this is enginex container one.
So coming back to the diagram here, what we have is currently we have two pods.
These two pods are basically running Nginx web server and they are responding well to the curl request
as we have already seen.
Now the next step here is the front end.
So in our case, the front end application here is this new curl pod.
So this is the new Curl pod, which will be assuming it to be running a front end application.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's copy these three lines and I'll paste it within the text document.
So just to make things easy for us to remember, you have a front end application which we are considering
as the new Curl pod and we have the back end application which we are considering it to be the two Nginx
web servers.
Now as we were discussing in the first use case where front end application directly speaks with the
back end application.
So this is one simple use case.
So let's try this out.
So let me clear the screen and let's do a cube.
Ctl Exec We'll paste the pod name.
So this is a pod name associated with the front end application.
And from here we'll do a call to the backend application IP address.
Now, just to remember, we have a front end application.
We are doing a Kubectl exec here, and from here we'll do a curl into one of the IP address associated
with the back end pod.
So the first IP address of the back end pod is 10 to 44 0.163.
Now here, as expected, front end is able to connect to the back end pod.
Now, in a similar way, let's use the IP address of the second container.
So let's copy one more pod IP and we'll paste it here.
And as expected, the front end was able to connect to the back end pod one and to the back end pod
two.
All right.
So I hope you understood the front end pod was able to communicate with the back end pod one and the
back end pod two by directly referencing to the IP address of that pod.
Now, we also discussed that although this might be a simple way, but if these pods get deleted, then
your front end application would fail.
And this is the reason why you need an intermediary layer of service which can route the traffic to
the underlying back end application.
So coming back to a terminal, I already have a service which is created.
So if I do a kubectl get service, you will see that I have one service which is currently created.
Now this service has a specific IP address.
So this service, which is backend gateway in this diagram, this service is already created and this
service has a specific IP address.
Now this service is connected with all the backend pods.
So if you want to verify, let's do a cube.
Ctl describe service Nginx.
Now if you see within the endpoint of this service, there are multiple pod IP address.
One is 0.1 63 and you have zero dot 72.
So this is very similar.
You have 0.1 63 and you have zero dot 72.
All right, so you have a service.
This service is connected to the two pods of the back end application that we have.
So now what the front end application can do, instead of directly communicating with the back end pod,
it can always send a request to the service IP here and service IP will deal with the back end pod communication.
So let's try it out Now in the earlier command of Curl, let's replace this and we'll specify the IP
address of the service over here.
And as expected, you see, the first time we got an output.
This is Enginex container one.
When you run this again, again, it seems to be working.
And when you run this again now it is directing to the port too.
So that basically means that whenever a front end application is calling the service, then the request
is routed to Port One.
It is also being routed to Port two.
So in this case, if Port One fails, then service can detect and it can only route the traffic to the
port which is currently running, or if there is a new port which is created, that port can automatically
be associated with the service.
So you do not really have to change the configuration file associated with the front end application.
And the important part, as we discussed, that your service can also allow you to do load balancing
between multiple pods so that no single pod can have a huge amount of load.
So that's the high level overview about the Kubernetes service.
Now there are a few important points to remember that there are several types of Kubernetes services
which are available which you can make use of.
One is Nodeport.
You also have cluster IP, you have load balancer, and you also have the external name.
So depending upon the use cases, you can use one among them to achieve it.
So that's the high level overview about services.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating First Service and Endpoint ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll go ahead and create a full service in communities and we'll also look into
these steps, data input.
Now, before we go ahead and create that first service, it is important for us to remember some of
the terminology area.
So the two important terminology is a service and the end points.
So at the high level overview, a service is a gateway that distributes the incoming traffic between
its endpoints.
So if you'll see you have a service call is back in Gateway in this diagram and you also have certain
endpoints.
Endpoints are basically the underlying boards to which their traffic will be noted too.
So currently we will see there are three boards in the worker node, one hover, but only one board
is where the traffic is contributed to by this service calls the backend gateway.
So this is basically referred to as endpoint.
The first board, whether traffic is routing to it is referred to as the endpoint or area.
So let this squiggly device the architecture so you have a frontend.
So frontend can be a board frontend is sending the traffic to the backend gateway, which is nothing
but the service and backend gateway is routing the traffic to a port, which isn't a thing, but the
endpoint.
Great.
So in today's video, we'll be going ahead and will be creating different end the back end port, which
is nothing but the endpoint port as well as the service.
And we'll look into how exactly the interconnection takes place.
Now from our get up beta related to the domain of services and networking, I'll be opening up the one
associated with creating services and endpoints.
Now, if you look into the steps that are involved, what we are doing here, let me quickly show you
first we are going ahead and creating the back end boards which can act as an endpoint.
So this is what we are doing in this step one.
In this step two, we are going ahead and creating different bench boards.
So different thing port is the first thing or here.
Then at the later stage we are going ahead and we are creating a service.
So this back in Gateway Service is what we are creating and in the next it will go ahead and is the
connectivity where from the front end board will send traffic to the backend gateway service and we'll
see on how to output from the port one is the return back to the front endpoint.
So this is the aim of today's video, so let's go ahead and try it out.
So the step one is to go ahead and create two containers.
I think you will run back in board one and will be launching it from the image of Engine X.
Similarly will also create one more point.
Let's call it back in Port AU later.
This is the step one.
In this step two, we are going ahead and creating one more port.
The name of the board is fronting port and we are launching it from the image of Ubuntu and we also
have a command of sleep 3600.
So this port runs on back and on.
So let's copy and paste it over here.
No.
Before we go ahead and introduce the service, what we'll be doing for it will be connecting to the
frontend board from the front end board will be making a request or to one of the backend board that
we have created and we'll see if we're able to get the response back properly.
So let's go ahead and look.
You clearly get bored with the output of white.
As expected, all of these three boards are in their running state and we're also seeing the IP address
of each one of them.
So let's do one thing.
We'll be copying the IP address of one of the backend port, which is 10 to 40 4.0.11 fake ones.
Then you can go ahead and connect to the frontend port.
Let's do that and say you see exec frontend port and reconnect via bash.
All right.
So now what we want, we want to make a call request.
Now, since the call is not present, let's do an aggregate update and we'll also install gold buffet.
So once call is available, you can make a call request and add the IP of the backend board, number
one.
And you see as expected, we're getting a steaming response and the content is welcome to engine X.
So we control D.
Let's come out of deep border now from a database.
Basically, we have completed the step three where we connected to the frontend part of installed Decode
and we made a call request to another backend board.
Now that we know that the connectivity is working correctly, we will go ahead and we create a service
and then we'll be associating our back in board with this specific service.
So in this step forward, if you will see, we are going ahead and creating a service audit and in this
step five, we are associating the end point with the service.
So we'll be associating a board with that specific service.
Now in case if you're wondering where exactly this code is coming from, so from the official documentation
of community service, if I go back, don't you already have my sample code that is available?
So basically I have used the sample code and modified based on our requirements.
So I'll also be adding this documentation link so that you can also reference it in case if you want
to look into it in more detail.
So let's go ahead and create the first service.
So we didn't Madam Editor, let's go ahead and create a new file.
I just call it as service document.
Let me copy the contents and ABC to edit.
Now within the first thing that we are mentioning is the name of the service.
So in this case the name of the service is key pillar of service.
And there is also one more important part of it is this board section very we have specified port as
AT&amp;T and Target Ports.
So we'll be discussing about this in just a moment.
Before that, let's go ahead and create a service so that initially let's go ahead and do what you see
will apply hyphen F on service dot Yemen.
Great.
So now if you'll do, you'll still get service.
You'll see that we have a new service that is created and the name Escape Labs Hyphen Service and the
ported is DB.
Now if you'll go ahead and do cubes, it will describe service, keep labs hyphen service.
Yet you'll note that in the end point it is showing us none.
So currently this is a service created, but it does not have any input now from different input at
this stage.
If we send a request to our service, it will not really go ahead and respond because it does not really
have an endpoint from which it can get a response from.
Now, before we dig in further, let's go ahead and revise our understanding about port and target port.
Now, in this diagram, you will see that there are two work on and in each worker node there is one
single port.
So you have a port here and you have a border.
So in this board there is an application that is running.
Let's assume the application which is running this engine except by t richarlison's on port city.
So if you want to connect to this specific board and retrieve the output of the application, you will
have to make sure that you specify the IP address followed by the port, which is EDI order.
You know, along with this you will see that you have a key pillar of service and in this capability
service there are two endpoints that are connected to it.
And in this also you have a port, which is it.
So this ability port is nothing but the port of these services itself.
So when you send the request to the IP address of the service followed by the Port of the service,
which is ADT, the service will go ahead and send the traffic to the target port of main point.
In this case, the target port is 80.
However, the port is empty so the port is nothing but the port.
This service will listen to, and the target board is nothing but the board where the end point will
listen to.
So if you're looking to this specific service document, we have specified borders, AT&amp;T and Target
Borders AP.
So that basically means that this service will listen to Port Eddie when it receives their request on
both ADT of this specific IP address of this service.
It will go ahead and forward it to the endpoints IP address followed by the endpoints target quote,
which is 80.
Great.
So first, let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and copy the IP address of the service will quickly connect to our and board once more.
And let's run the call command followed by the IP address of service and the board where the service
is listing.
And it is Abe.
Now at this date you will see we are not really getting any response, primarily because there are no
endpoints that are connected to the service.
All right.
So now the next step is to connect some endpoints to the service.
So let's add Wisconsin traffic to the endpoint, retrieve the response and send the response back to
different endpoint.
So in the next step, which is step three, we are going ahead and associating a endpoint with the service.
So let's create one more file.
I just call it as endpoint NORDMAN And within it, let me copy this and LPC to worry, you know, within
the name, make sure to give the same name as that of the service.
Medeski BeLive service.
And within the addresses you will have to specify the addresses of that of the endpoint where you want
the traffic to be about.
So let's go back out of the port and let's do a see get port hyphen.
All right.
Now, at this stage we have to back in port, but let's take a simple example and copy the IP address
of one of the ports.
So we'll consider that back in port.
One will be the endpoint of that service and specify the IP address of the back end port when I'll save
it.
Let's go ahead and do a QC play on the endpoint note Yemen.
Okay.
Now if you look, you see they'll describe service, you will see in the endpoint.
This time you are seeing one endpoint which is nothing but the back end port one.
So it is now time to assess the overall connectivity.
So we'll connect to the frontend port once again.
We'll run the call command to the IP address of this service.
So this is the IP address of the service followed by the port where the service is listing, which is
ADT I presented.
And as expected, this thing you see, we are getting the response back now in case if you do not send
the request to the port where the service is listing to, let's try a different perplexity.
So now you see we are not really getting any response back.
So you have to verify the exact mode where the service will be listening to before sending the request
to it.
Great.
So I hope with this now you understood things in a better way associated with the concept of service,
the concept of endpoints, and how they're interconnected with each other.
Now, within a database, I have also added these steps in which you can go ahead and delete the resources
that were created in the earlier steps.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- Code - Service Deployment ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Service Type: ClusterIP ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about one of the service types, which is cluster IP.
Now, whenever a service is of type cluster IP, what happens is that an internal IP address of the
cluster is associated with that specific service.
Now, since an internal cluster IP is assigned to the service, that specific service can only be reachable
from within the cluster.
Now, one important part to remember here is that the cluster IP is the default service type.
So that basically means that if you create a service and if you do not define a service type by default,
it will create a service with the service type of cluster IP.
Now, we already know this specific diagram where you have a service with the name of backend gateway,
and this service has three endpoints, and these three endpoints are nothing but the IP address of the
backend pods.
Now the service which is created over here, this service also has an IP address.
Now we have already seen this in the previous video where we had done a curl on the IP address associated
with that service.
So if you see this service has an IP address of ten dot 244 .0. 20.
So this IP address is nothing but the internal IP address of the cluster.
So this is the reason why it is called as the cluster IP.
Now the reason why, again, it is called as the cluster IP is because the IP address of this service
is one of the IP address of the cluster, which is internal.
Now, since this is an internal cluster IP, that basically means that only the objects which are within
the cluster will be able to access this specific IP address.
I from the internet cannot directly send a request to this IP address, although if there is a port
which is running, it can definitely connect to this IP address because this pod also has the IP address
of the internal cluster which it has received and also the appropriate routing.
Now in the previous video, we had created a service.
Now if you look into the service Yaml file, we never specified the type of service here and this is
the reason why it has received the default service type as cluster IP.
Now when you do a cube, Ctl get service over here you have a service of K Labs hyphen service which
was created in the previous video.
Now if you look into here, the type is cluster IP and it is also assigned a cluster IP here.
So this IP address, which is assigned to this specific service, this IP address belongs to the cluster.
So that's the high level overview about the service type of cluster IP.
Again, this is a very simple service type and we have already seen about how we can deploy it in the
previous video.
However, we understood what this cluster IP by itself means.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Using Selectors for Service Endpoints ---

Hey, you, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we look into how we can integrate the labels and selectors while configuring
a community service.
Now, at this stage, we have been creating a service.
We have been creating the endpoint manually.
And in the endpoint we have also been manually defining the IP address of the port that we want this
service to redirect traffic to.
So although for one or two IP, it is fine, but let's say in a production cluster data say 500 points.
Now in case if you are using this manual approach, then you'll have to add 500 IP addresses in the
endpoints.
So this is something that you do not really want, and this is also something that is not really scalable.
So manual approach of adding the IP address in End Point is something that we want to avoid for production
environments.
And in order to improve the overall functionality, communities has allowed the integration of selectors
with services.
So what really happens here is that whenever a client creates a service, they can define that.
Add all the boards with a label of app is equal to end innings.
So now whenever a service will be created, the end point of that service will be associated with the
IP address associated with all the ports that has this specific label.
So this type of approach is much more simpler.
So by only adding the appropriate selector as part of the service, you can go ahead and select all
the boards.
It can be a hundred, 200, 500 boards, etc., and added as part of your overall service endpoints.
So this is what is referred to as integration of service with selectors.
So let's go ahead and try.
Don't.
Now within the domain of services and networking, let's go ahead and open the code associated with
using selectors in service.
Now within.
Yet before we go ahead and start implementing, let me quickly show you on what we are going to do.
First, we are going ahead and will be creating a deployment.
And as part of this deployment, in total, there will be three boards that will be created using the
engine X imagery.
And one more thing, in these boards you will have a label of app equal to engine.
So all the boards will have this specific label.
Now, in the second step, we will be creating a service.
Now, in this service, the only additional thing that we are defining is the selector.
So you have a selector and what we are adding yet app is equal to end index which matches the label
that is been added to the reports as part of the deployment.
So this is the second step and that third step will be going ahead and will be verifying the service
and in the later stage will be scaling the deployment from replica 3 to 10 and then will also verify
if new boards are added as part of the service endpoints.
Great.
So a lot of things to do this.
Go ahead and try it out immediately.
So the first thing, let's go ahead and create a new file called Demo Haven Deployment Document.
So let's go ahead and create a new file, demo deployment or Daemon.
I'll copy the contents.
Let's be straight with you and I'll see if that changes.
So from this year, let's do it.
You'll see they'll play on the Demo Haven deployment or the.
All right, well, this is.
Then let's do it.
You'll see.
They'll get boards and we'll also do virtual labors so that we can see the events associated with the
board.
So as part of their deployment data, three boards are created.
And each board has a label of app is equal to engine grade.
So our step one is completed.
In our step two, we are creating a service.
So let's create a new file called service hyphen selector dot Yemen.
And within this, I'll copy the contents.
Let me be straight with you on it.
So the most important thing that you will have to verify here is that the selector has the same label
as that of the boards that you want to add in the end points associated with this service.
So now let's go ahead and do a cutesy play one service hyphen selector dot Yemen.
Great.
So now in this step number three, what we're doing, we are going to verify the end points that are
associated with our new service.
So let's copy this and clear the screen.
Sylvia basically doing a cubicle, describe service followed by the name of the service that we had
created.
And within here you'll see that there are in total of three endpoint.
This is the first nameplate.
This is the second endpoint and this is the third end point.
So all the three end points I'd associated with the three boards that were created as part of their
deployments.
Now what we are going to do is we're going to scale the deployment.
Let's say that suddenly there is a big sale that is going on in your website and a lot of users are
expected to come.
So you do not want only three boards as part of deployment, you want ten boards.
So what we are going to do, we are going to scale the deployment to a total of ten boards.
So let's clear this key.
I think you'll see the scale deployment.
You can specify the name of deployment, which is in the next deployment, and you can specify the replicas
of ten.
Alright.
So now our deployment is kale.
So if you look you still get bored yet again, you will see in total we now have ten bots.
And in fact if you'll do it with sure labels, you will see all the ten bots has the same label, but
is app is equal to engine x?
Now one of the question that comes is now what will happen with the seven new pods that were added?
Will they be part of this service or not?
So that is the question.
So let's go ahead and verify.
So let's quickly.
Do you still get service audit?
This is a service.
We'll go ahead and describe it.
You'll see it will describe service.
People have service selected.
And now you see in the end point, the list of IP addresses are automatically updated.
So you no longer have to manually add or remove the IP addresses data part of the endpoint.
So you have three IP addresses and it also shows you plus seven.
Now, if you want to see the exact list of IP addresses, you can go ahead and do you see delegate endpoint,
you have this specific endpoint.
So let's describe this.
I think you'll see the end describe endpoint followed by the name of endpoint, which is service selector.
And within you, you will see the list of ten IP addresses that are part of this specific endpoint.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the importance as well as the benefits of integrating a service with
selectors.
Now do note that in production environments, whenever you are using services you will be using selectors
extensively.
So this is more of a production like setup and hence it is important to understand this in more detail
here.
Now, one more thing that I wanted to show you.
In fact, I am also adding it as part of our database is that in GIS, let's say you create a new board,
a new manual board is created and you add this same label of AB is equal to engine NICS in this board.
So whenever communities sees that a new board is created with a specific label that is part of the selected
audio, this service endpoint will automatically add this board as well.
So let's go ahead and verify this.
So I'll copy the voice command.
Let's clear this screen will be creating a new port colors manually.
Port from the image of engine x.
And in the second command, we're basically adding a label, Soviet stating you see the label board,
the name of the board is manual board and what is the label that we want to write?
The label we want to add is AB is equal to Indian X.
So l copy this.
I know, but isn't it great?
So now if you'll do a QC, they'll get Fords.
And let's also do show labels again.
You will see we have a manual period.
And this board also has the label of app is equal to engine.
Now when you do a queue signal, describe centres once more, you should see that data in total of three
IP addresses here and it is showing eight more so in total data 11 endpoints associated as part of the
KP labs service selector.
So the SCA grade and as part of the last step, you can go ahead and Randy set of commands to delete
the resources that are created as part of this lecture.
So that's the high level overview.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- Code - Service and Selectors ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Service Type: NodePort ---

Heidi.
And welcome back.
Now, at this stage, whenever we were creating a service, we never mentioned this service state within
our configuration.
And this is the reason why a default service type of class therapy was used.
Now, in this video, we'll be creating a service of a different type, which is not.
But now nobody again is an important type of service.
And you will see this type of implementation in production environments.
So let's go ahead and look into it in more detail.
Now, at a high level, all of you know what exposes the service on each node's IP agnostic mode, which
is referred to as a notebook, and you will be able to contact the node port service from outside the
cluster by requesting the worker app followed by the notebook.
So this is a very important point.
So let's go ahead and discuss more about.
So in this diagram, you will see that we have a service called Escape Labs Hyphen Service, and this
service has one port as the endpoint.
Now what you want is since this skip elapsed hyphen service has a cluster HP, which is basically the
internal IP, you will not be able to connect to this service from outside void.
However, this is something that you do not really want.
Sometimes this is the application and you want the public to visit your website.
Now, since the cluster IP based service by default do not allow the external communication towards
ECC because of the routing, you might not be able to use it for production environment.
So now what you want?
You want a way in which the lines from the internet will be able to access the service that you create.
And this is where the node port comes into picture.
So let's say that you have created a service of type node put.
Now, in such case, what will happen later?
We believe service is of great note port.
Now what will happen is on this worker node, which is worker node one, a new node port will be created.
Now if you'll see a node port of 31514 is created.
So now anyone externally wants to connect to this service, they will have to connect to the marker
node one public IP, followed by this space of ignored port, and the request will now be downloaded
to the node port service.
So this is the basic idea.
Now, again, I'm sure that this is still confusing.
Let's go ahead and implement it and this will give us the better picture.
So within our database, let's go ahead and open up the ledger of service state node put.
So what we are going to do in today's video, again, we are going to create a simple board.
This board will have a label of type is equal to public port and it will be created from the index image.
Now, in this step two, we are creating a node port service.
Again, this is the exact same configuration as that of the selected service.
The only additional thing is we are explicitly defining a type of node, but this is the only primary
to do it here.
And once this note, port services created will look into how this specific port is attached to that
of the American node and how we can collect on the Internet.
All right.
So let's go ahead and start with that back article.
I'll copy the first command within ACL.
Let's go ahead and run this.
So the name of port is Node Port, Hyphen Port.
So let's look.
You see, they'll get false.
And I'll also do show labels.
And you'll see a new board is created and this board has a label of eight is equal to public board.
So in the second step, we are creating a board service within.
Yet we have defined a selector of type is equal to public board.
And along with this, we're also explicitly specifying that the service that will be created will be
of Peyton output.
So I'll copy this.
Let's create a new file.
I'll call it as 0.0 Yemen.
I like the contents and I'll save it.
Let's clear the screen and let's do it.
You'll see the play on Northport Port, Yemen.
That's great.
Now let's do it.
You'll see.
They'll get to service.
Now, within here, you see that we have this Northport Service.
You see, that type is Northport.
And yet we're basically getting this specific Northport to area.
Now, do note, I also have this capability service selector that we had created in the earlier video,
which is of eight listed IP.
Now, one of the difference here you will see is that you're only seeing this port, which is port 18.
Nothing is in the Northport Service along with this photo.
We're also seeing this specific Northport, which is 31947.
So if you want to connect to this Northport Service, we have to get the IP address of the worker node
followed by this specific Northport we added in the browse it and the request will be related to the
Northport Service.
So this is the basic idea.
So let's get the public IP address of the worker and I'll see if you still get notes.
Video of right now within you will see that there is an external IP associated with our worker node.
Let's go up.
It is external IP and within the browser.
Let me paste this external IP.
Now at this day you see we are not releasing any output at all.
So what we need to do, we have to not only specify the external IP but also the node put.
Also when you add this note port, the request will be transferred to this specific service, which
is capabilities hyphen node put.
And from this service it will go to our engine export.
So let's specify.
Do not put.
But it is true even 947.
I presented.
And immediately you see, we're getting the Welcome to India speech.
Now, do note that this Welcome to India speech is nothing but the speech that is coming from this specific
port, which is not Port Haven port, that is the running from the image of Indian elite.
So I hope that this you understood the importance as well as the benefit that Northport provides.
And in this, if you have an application that is running as part of the cluster and it has a service
associated with it, and if you want to open that application from your browser or the Internet, then
Northport really helps audio I linked so with this will conclude today's video.

--- Code - NodePort ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kubernetes Networking Model ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the Kubernetes networking model.
Now, we already know that Kubernetes was built to run on a distributed systems where there can be hundreds
of worker nodes in which the pods would be running.
So you will have a Kubernetes master and there can be hundreds of worker nodes where everything would
be running.
So in such type of architecture, networking is one of the primary component that you have to work with.
So by understanding the overall networking related aspects that Kubernetes defined and mandates, it
allows administrators to properly run monitor as well as the troubleshooting related aspects for the
applications which are running within the Kubernetes clusters.
Now, when you discuss about the networking model, one important part to remember is that Kubernetes
imposes the following fundamental requirement on any networking implementation that takes place.
So there are three requirements.
First one is that ports on a node can communicate with all the ports on all the nodes without requiring
of a additional Nat.
Second is all nodes can communicate with all ports without an additional Nat, And third is the IP that
a port sees itself as is the same IP address that others see it as it is.
So these are the three important requirements that Kubernetes mandates.
So depending upon these requirements, there are certain challenges and solutions that needs to be implemented.
So in total, there are four different networking challenges.
First one is related to container to container networking.
Second is port to pod networking.
Third is port to service networking, and fourth is Internet to service networking.
So let's quickly have a look into this.
So the first one is container to container networking.
So we know that container to container networking primarily happens inside a pod.
So a pod can have multiple containers within it.
So Pod can contain a group of containers with the same IP address and communication between the container
inside pod happens via localhost.
So let's consider the outer layer to be pod.
And within the pod there are two containers.
First one is the application container, second one is the database container.
So the application container can communicate with the database container via the localhost, followed
by the port in which the application is running.
So it can be localhost followed by 3306.
In a similar way, if a database container wants to communicate with the application container and if
the application container is running on port 80, then database container can do localhost colon 80
and it will be able to connect with itself.
So these are the container to container networking related aspects.
Second is port to pod networking.
So primary aim here is to understand at a high level overview about how port to pod communication works.
So you have one pod, you have second pod.
Each pod has the interface Eth0, which will have the pod IP over here.
And then it also connects to one more interface.
In this case it is Eth0 Port two has V one, and both of them goes through a bridge through which the
inter communication happens between them.
So you don't really need to go into detail if you just understand this at a high level overview, that's
quite good enough.
So currently I am connected to the CLI and if you do a kubectl get pods you see that there are two pods
that are running over here and when you do an output of wide over here, you will also see the IP address
that are associated with each of the pod over here.
Now let's go ahead and quickly connect to one of the pods.
And inside this, if you do a ifconfig, you will see that you have a et0 interface and you will also
see the IP address, which is one 7217 0.4 similar to the output that we had seen.
All right.
So now we know that each pod has the Et0 interface over here and it has an associated IP.
Now apart from that, you will have multiple interfaces like V, zero, v one, and that in turn connects
to a specific bridge.
So if I quickly do a ifconfig on the host, you will see that there are multiple interfaces that are
available and they should also be one bridge, primarily because when communication needs to happen,
there has to be a bridge that would be involved.
So in this case you can quickly find that out.
So when you see this specific destination, which is one 7270 zero zero, so any communication that
goes towards this destination, the interface here is the Docker zero.
So in this case, the Docker zero is basically the overall bridge that is used for communication.
The next point is associated with port to service communication.
So Kubernetes service can act as an abstraction, which can provide a single IP address and DNS through
which the pods can be accessed.
So basically, we already know that when you create a deployment, there can be multiple amount of pods
and tracking the IP of each pod is something that is difficult.
So what you can do is you can create a gateway which basically acts as a middleware, and this gateway
keeps the track of each and every pod that are running.
And this gateway is also called as the service.
So all you have to do is you have to direct the traffic to the service, and service can load balance
the traffic across the pods that are running inside it.
The next point is Internet to service networking.
So let's say that you have two different service example service and lab service, and each service
is directing to a single port, and someone from the Internet wants to communicate to this specific
port via the service.
So how can you do that?
So that can be achieved with the help of ingress and ingress controller.
So Kubernetes Ingress is basically a collection of routing rules which governs how external users access
the service, which is running within the Kubernetes cluster.
So for example, whenever the user type example.com, then you want the traffic to go to the example
service.
If a user types say labs in, then the traffic should be routed to labs, service and so on.
So that rules can be defined as part of the Kubernetes ingress.
And you can also have a ingress controller, which is basically it can be a load balancer, which in
turn will forward the traffic to the underlying services that are running.
So that is basically an Internet to service networking.
So in most of the organizations, you will see that a load balancer is used.
The traffic from the client goes to the load balancer and from the load balancer, the traffic goes
to the underlying services that are running within your Kubernetes cluster.
So that is the very high level overview about the Kubernetes networking model.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Understanding Liveness Probe ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about the liveness probe.
Now, generally what happens is that many a times when you are running your application for a long period
of time, eventually the application will transition to a broken state, and that cannot be recovered
except by when it is restarted.
So what organizations they generally use to do is that they use to use some kind of external tools like
Monit.
So what Monit does is that whenever it sees that the application has been broken or it is not running,
it will automatically restart that application.
And that used to be quite a time saver because at the middle of a night suddenly you see that your application
is not working and the DevOps team or the Sysops team manually has to log in to the server and restart
your application.
So that used to be a big pain.
So a third party tool helps here which automates the restart if your application is in a broken state.
Now, similar to that, Kuverit is also provides us with a feature of liveness probe which can detect
and also provides a remedy for such kind of a situation.
So within this image you can see that you have a Nginx and Nginx might be running for many months and
suddenly sometime you will see that Nginx is in a broken state.
So if this nginx is in a broken state most of the times if you just restart it, it works pretty well.
So that restart of your application automatically when it breaks can be achieved with the help of liveness
probe.
So let's understand this with a simple diagram here.
Now you have a Kubernetes cluster, and the first step here is basically it verifies whether your application
is running.
So in the step one, it is able to verify that your application is running.
So if you look into the table here in the column one here, your status is healthy and there is no action
which is taking place Now in the step two, the Kubernetes verifies, let's say, with the liveness
probe that the application is not working.
The application inside your container has stopped working.
So now within the status you see it has marked it as unhealthy.
And what happens once it marked it as unhealthy is that it will restart it.
So once the Kubernetes cluster verifies that your application is unhealthy in the step three of the
table, if you see that the application is again healthy.
However, within the step two, under the status, since it is unhealthy, there is a corresponding
action of restart which has been taken place.
So once restart has taken place, your application is up and running yet again.
So this entire procedure of monitoring and also having an action can be achieved with the help of liveness
probe.
So I'm in my atom editor here and we have a simple file of liveness probe dot yaml and it basically
contains two sections here.
One is the liveness probe and second is the section which basically creates a pod.
So the first section here, it creates a pod from the image of Ubuntu.
And in the second section we have defined the liveness probe.
So this is very similar where you have a Kubernetes cluster.
Now we are defining a pod in the first section.
So in the first section we are creating a pod and in the second section we are telling Kubernetes to
regularly send a liveness probe to the container to verify whether the application is up and running
or not.
So within the second section here, you see that within the liveness probe I have specified a command
called as service Nginx status.
So this command is basically will be run by the liveness probe to verify whether the application is
running.
If it is not running, then the Kubernetes will restart your container.
So let's quickly have a demo and look into how exactly this might look like.
So before we go ahead and run that, let's do a cube.
Ctl run from the image of Ubuntu.
So this will create a simple pod here.
All right.
Now, this board by default, will not have a nginx over here.
So currently you see it does not really have a nginx.
So if I go back and when you do a kubectl get pods, so this is a pod name.
So let's quickly do a kubectl exec into this pod and let's specify the command service Nginx status.
So now it is giving you the same error as earlier.
It is saying that no Nginx service is present and it also is saying you that the command terminated
with the exit code of one.
That basically means that this command gave you an error.
Now something similar to this.
If I replace this, let's do a ls on temp directory.
You will have no output because there is no file within the temp directory.
Along with that, you will not get this error message saying that exit code of one.
So this will also not return when your command is successful.
Now similar to that when you do a service nginx status now this command will give you an error in two
cases.
First case is when nginx is not installed at all.
Second case is when you have nginx installed but the nginx is not running.
All right.
So there are two cases where it can give you an error.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly look into the second case as well.
So let me clear the screen and let's do an apt get update and we'll also install Nginx within a pod.
All right.
So now once it is installed, let's go ahead and do a service enginex status.
Now, it is currently saying that the Nginx is not running.
And if I do a echo status here, it will basically give you a non-zero status.
That basically means that the previous command has errored out.
So now, oops, I'm running quite a lot because of confusions.
When you switch between Windows and Linux, this is one of the primary issues.
Anyways, so let's do a service enginex start.
So currently it has given you okay.
And when you do a service nginx status now it is saying Nginx is running and when you do a echo status
it should give you a zero.
That means everything is perfectly working here in the previous command.
So this is a high level overview about echo status.
So echo status is primarily specific to Linux.
However, for liveness probe, it is important to understand this.
Anyways, so now that we understood that what the service nginx status will do within the liveness probe.
So now with this set, let's go ahead and run the liveness probe dot yaml and look into what exactly
will happen.
So let's go ahead and delete the previous deployment of Ubuntu that we had and go ahead and apply the
file of liveness probe dot yaml.
All right, so we have our pod created and when you do a kubectl get pods, currently you have a pod
within the container creating status.
So now this board is currently running.
And as expected, because when you do a cube, Ctl exec into the liveness probe and when you do a service
nginx status, this command has failed because there is no service nginx which is currently running.
So when the liveness probe runs this same command service engine status, it will get an error over
here.
And when it receives an error, what liveness probe will do is that it will go ahead and restart the
overall container.
So basically it will kill and start the container which is running.
So now let's go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl get pods yet again.
And currently you see within the restart you have a count of one.
So it will continuously keep on doing this unless and until it receives an eco status of zero.
That means the command has been successful.
So that's the high level overview about what liveness probes are.
Now, do remember here that there are three types of probes which can be used here.
One is Http, second is command and third is TCP.
Now in this demo we have taken an example of a command type where we specified the command which liveness
probe had to execute to verify if the application is running or not.
Now you can also make use of Http probe where if your application, let's say web server is running,
you can send a Http get request and verify the response.
Whether it is receiving a Http 200 response or a Http 400 response and something similar.
So there are various ways in which you can verify whether your application is running with the help
of liveness probes.
So that's the high level overview about this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Liveness Probe ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding Readiness Probe ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about the readiness probe.
Now it can happen that an application is running, but it is temporarily unavailable to serve the traffic.
So we can understand this with an example.
Let's say that an application is running, but it is still loading its large configuration file from
an external vendor.
So in such cases even the application is running.
But since it is still loading the configuration file, it is not ready to serve the production traffic.
So in such cases, if we use the liveness probe, liveness probe will consider this application to be
running and it will start to serve the traffic if it is under the load balancer.
So we do not want that, nor we want it to kill the container since it is not ready.
So in such cases we make use of the readiness probe.
So let's understand this with a simple example here.
Let's say you have an antivirus application here.
Now this application is currently running, but it is receiving its updates from a centralized server.
Now generally what happens is that let's say in Windows you have a exe file.
So exe file can be two year old, three year old, four year old.
So when you double click on that exe file and when you install it within your windows, that will basically
lead to your antivirus being running.
But antivirus being running does not mean that it is updated with the latest patches.
So what you want is once your antivirus is running, it should fetch the latest updates, the latest
virus signatures, and then it should be considered as ready.
Otherwise, even though it is running, it should not be considered as ready.
So for such kind of a use case, readiness probe proves to be quite useful.
So we can understand this with a much more high level overview diagram where you have two pods which
are currently running.
Now.
The first pod is of antivirus and it has downloaded all the latest updates from the Central Antivirus
server.
And once it has downloaded the latest updates, the status is now ready.
So now you have one more antivirus pod which is just created.
However, that antivirus pod, the update is still in progress.
So even though the antivirus service by itself is running, but it is not ready since it is still updating.
So this is the reason why whenever you make use of load balancer, then you can have a ability to surf
all the traffic towards the application whose status is ready.
So in the second pod here, since the status is not ready because it is still updating progress since
the status is not ready, no traffic will reach this specific pod.
All the traffic will only reach the pod.
Who has the status of ready.
So this is one example where readiness probe proves to be quite useful.
Now when you make use of liveness probe, as we were discussing, liveness probe can basically let's
say when we take an example of command, it can check whether the antivirus service is running and if
it is running, then liveness probe will consider your antivirus to be perfectly ready and then load
Balancer will start to send the traffic to your antivirus.
So since the antivirus is still update in progress, and if you are sending virus signatures, it can
happen that the signature might not be detected.
So in such kind of a use cases, readiness probes proves to be very useful.
Now syntax of readiness probe is quite similar to the liveness probe where you have readiness probe.
Again, within the exec section, you have the command where you specify the command that needs to be
checked in order for it to determine whether your application is ready to serve the traffic or not.
Now, definitely, if you see over here, the command is cat temp healthy.
So that basically means that your readiness probe will verify whether this file is present or not.
If it is present in the readiness probe will pass as successful.
If this file is not present, then it will fail.
Now, in such cases, you have to make sure that once your antivirus update progress has completed,
then it should go ahead and create this specific file.
So let's do one thing.
Let's take a quick demo to understand on how exactly this might work.
So I'm in my atom editor here, and similar to the liveness probe, we have two sections.
First section basically creates a pod of ubuntu and second section basically is associated with the
readiness probe.
So what we do in readiness probe here, this readiness probe basically has a exec and it will run this
command which is cat temp healthy.
So this command will be successful if this file is.
Present.
And if this file is not present, then this command will fail and hence your readiness probe will also
fail.
So let's quickly jump into the demo and see on how exactly it might look like.
So let's quickly do a kubectl apply on readiness probe dot yaml.
All right, now let's go ahead and do a kubectl get pods.
Now if you look into the status of the pod, the status of the pod is running.
However, within the ready, it says that it is not ready.
So you see this zero basically means that it is not ready.
Now if I can do it once again, even though it has been 25 seconds, this specific pod is in the non
ready state.
So that basically means that if there is a load balancer who might be serving the traffic, it will
not serve the traffic to the pod, which is in the non ready state.
All right.
So I hope you understood what this specific thing means.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's explicitly connect to this pod and create that file and see the effect of it.
So as a kubectl exec ID followed by the name of the pod and also we'll specify the command of touch
tem healthy.
So what this will do, it will go ahead and create a file called as Healthy under the temp directory.
All right.
Now, once this file is created, your readiness probe will be able to have a successful execution in
terms of the command which has been specified within the Yaml file and on successful execution, this
readiness status will change.
So now let's go ahead and do a kubectl get pods again.
And now you see the ready is one that basically means that this specific pod is currently ready.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what readiness probes are all about.
Now, before we conclude this video, let me quickly show you one thing.
So let's quickly do a Kubectl exec on the readiness pod and let's go ahead and delete the temp healthy
file.
So now what we have done, we have gone ahead and deleted this specific file.
So next time when the readiness pro will do a cat on this specific file, the probe will fail.
So in order to verify, let's do a kubectl get pods.
And currently you see the readiness check has failed.
Now this is very similar to the cat command.
So when you do a cat on temp healthy, you see this command has exited with the status code of one.
That basically means that the command cat temp healthy has errored out here.
And this is the reason why your readiness probe is also failing.
So that's the high level overview about the readiness probe.
I hope you understood the difference between a liveness probe and a readiness probe.
So again, to revise having an application running does not really mean that it is ready to serve the
traffic.
It can happen that it can be doing a lot of things behind the scenes, which needs to be completed before
it can serve the production traffic.
And this is the reason why Readiness probe is used, which can determine that the application is ready
to serve the traffic.
So with this, we will conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Readiness Probe ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding DaemonSets ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will be discussing about demon sets.
Now, before we go ahead and discuss more about demon sets, let's understand a simple use case and
let's look into how we can achieve that.
So let's say that we have three worker nodes which are available and we want to run a single copy of
a pod in every worker node.
So this can be better explained with a diagram where you have three worker node over here and you want
to run a single copy of a pod.
Let's assume web server in every node over here.
Now, if I have to ask you this question, what would be your outright answer?
So the common answer that you will see is create a deployment with a replica set of three, which will
go ahead and launch three pods, mostly in each and every node.
So this is the ideal case, but this can not always be true.
It can happen in replica set and deployments that two copy or even three copy of a pod can be launched
in a single node.
So it all depends upon a lot of factors based on which the scheduling happens.
So with the typical use case, we cannot directly make use of replica sets and assume that scheduler
will launch a single copy of pod in every node.
So in order to achieve that you can make use of demon set.
Now a demon set basically ensures that all nodes run a copy of your pod.
Now one of the question that comes is why do you need to run just a single copy of a pod?
Why can't I run just two copy of a pod in a single node?
And what would be the difference if I do not run a pod in a single node here?
Now it can make a difference depending upon the use case.
So one of the simple use case that I can share here is the antivirus.
So let's say that you have three worker nodes and what you want is you have an antivirus pod which regularly
scans for all the files within the node to verify if it has some malicious data or not.
So in such kind of a use case, you want to run your antivirus pod in each and every node and you don't
want to run multiple copies of your antivirus pod.
You just want to run a single copy of your antivirus pod in every node.
So this is the first use case.
Second is whenever a new node comes up, then that new node should also have a single copy of your antivirus
pod.
So all of these can be achieved with the help of demon set.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the practical and understand on how exactly this might look like.
Now I have a Yaml file for demon set now if you see the API version is aps slash version one, the kind
is demon set and you are basically giving a name to your object.
Now the spec field is somewhat very similar to what we had seen, so let's look into the template field
here first.
So within the template, what you are doing is you are launching a container.
So let's say that we have discussed that you want to launch a antivirus pod in each and every node within
your cluster.
So what you can do is you can give a name like Cape Labs Hyphen Antivirus, and you can give the image
of your antivirus pod.
So this is the spec section.
Now you have one more section here under metadata, which is the labels.
So what labels does is that every pod that gets created, that pod will have this label called as Cape
Labs hyphen all hyphen pods.
And you also have a selector over here which basically has the same value as that of the label that
you are assigning it to the container.
Now we have already discussed about the labels and selectors, so by now I am sure that you already
know what these mean.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the terminal.
Now within here, if I quickly do a cube Ctl get nodes, you will see that I have two worker nodes which
are currently available.
So now let's go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl apply on the Daemonset.
So it says that your daemonset has been created.
Now if you want to do a cube, Ctl get pods.
You see exactly.
Two pods were launched.
Now if you want to see where each of these pods were launched, you can even do a cube.
Ctl get pods followed by a wide.
So now within the node section it will tell you that the.
First pod was launched in a node which has a label of K8S secondary.
I am.
So this is the second node over here and you have one more pod which was assigned to a node with R9O
and this is the node which you can see over here.
So your demon set launched exactly one pod in each node.
So you can better understand this with an antivirus example that we were discussing that a demon set
can launch an antivirus pod in Node one and then it can also launch in Node two.
So this is the first use case.
Now, the second thing that we were discussing, that any time a new worker node is created, then your
antivirus pod should also be created in that worker node because it might happen that the worker node
can be infected.
So you want antivirus pod in the all the worker nodes within your cluster.
So let's try it out as well.
So within my digitalocean I have a Kubernetes cluster and within the cluster you will see that there
are two nodes which are available.
So let's go ahead and add a new pool.
Let's call it as k p labs hyphen Daemonsets and we'll launch one more node.
All right, let's go ahead and add that node within our cluster.
So this will go ahead and launch one more worker node and this worker node will be connected with our
Kubernetes cluster.
So that basically means that we'll have a total of three worker nodes.
All right.
So on a refresh, you see that there is one more worker node which is created now from the CLI.
If you quickly do a kubectl get nodes, you will see that now we have three worker nodes which are available
and corresponding to that, if you do a kubectl get pods, you will see that in total.
Now you have three pods which are currently running and on hyphen o y you will see that the new pod
was also created in a newly launched worker node called as Labs Hyphen Daemonsets.
So anytime a new worker node gets created, your daemonset will go ahead and make sure that a pod is
created in that specific worker node.
Now if you quickly want to look into the Daemonset object so you can do a kubectl get Daemonset and
here it will give you the name of Daemonset.
It will also show you the desired count, which is equivalent to the number of worker nodes typically,
and also the current count.
Now if you do a kubectl describe daemonset followed by Cape Labs hyphen Daemonset.
So within here you will be able to see on what exactly the image is for the pods which will be running
in all the worker nodes.
So you can see the details related to image and you can also look into the logs because many times there
can be an error.
So you can go ahead and look into your event logs to figure out more details about it.
So that's the high level overview about Daemonset.
I hope this video has been informative for you and look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Daemonsets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Taints and Tolerations ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So now in today's video, we'll be discussing about taints and tolerations.
Now, taints are generally used to repel the pods from a specific nodes.
So let's understand this with a simple example.
Now, on the left hand side, you have a worker node zero one and you have the worker node two.
And along with that you have pod one and you have pod two.
Now when you apply a taint, so currently you see that there is a taint applied.
So you can consider this to be a boundary.
So there is a taint applied to the worker node one.
So now whenever there is a taint applied to a specific node and if a pod is scheduled within that specific
node by default, it will be blocked.
So if a scheduler tries to schedule a pod on a node which has been tainted, then the effect would be
blocked.
However, if you look into the worker node to the worker, Node two does not have that taint.
And this is the reason why if the same pod is being scheduled to the worker node two, it will be scheduled
in that specific node.
So this pod will be running in the worker node two.
Now the question that comes is how can you go ahead and schedule a pod in a worker node which has a
taint applied to it?
So the answer to that is tolerations.
So in order to enter the taint worker node, you need a special pass.
All right.
So I call it as special pass.
And this special pass is called as the Toleration.
So let's take the same scenario where you have a taint applied to a worker node.
The pod is trying to schedule itself to this specific worker node, and it has also brought its special
pass.
And since it has this special pass, this pod will be allowed to be schedule within this worker Node
one.
So now this pod can go ahead and run in the worker node one along with that.
One important part to remember is that pod can also run in worker node two if it is scheduled over there,
because worker node two does not really have the taint.
So let's go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl get nodes and there are two worker nodes which are currently available.
One is called as the Worker zero one and second is called as the worker zero two.
Now whenever you go ahead and apply a taint.
So before we apply a taint, let's quickly do a cube Ctl describe on one of the worker node.
And if you go a bit up, you will see that within the paint it is none.
So there are no paints which are applied to this specific worker node so the pots can freely scheduled
in this specific node.
So in order to apply a paint, you can say cube Ctl paint nodes followed by the name of the node, which
is cube worker zero one.
And let's say key is equal to value and we'll add an effect called as no schedule.
All right, so now this specific node is tainted.
Now we'll be discussing about this effect in the later videos, but just understand that what we have
done is we have painted a specific worker node zero one.
So if you do the Cube Ctl describe once again within the paint over here, you see you have a taint
which is applied to this specific worker.
Zero one So coming back to the scenario that we were discussing, that as soon as you add a taint to
the worker node, if a pod gets scheduled over here, it will be blocked.
So let's try that out.
So when you do a cube, Ctl run Nginx will use the image of Nginx and will create a replica of five.
All right, so this will go ahead and create five pods.
So now let's go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl get pods on the O of white.
You will see that all of the pods are scheduled in the worker zero two.
None of the pods are scheduled in the worker zero one.
The reason why they are not scheduled is because that worker zero one has this taint which is applied
to it.
All right.
So this is the reason why the pods are not being scheduled.
So now if you want your pods to be scheduled in the worker node one, then you will need this path called
as toleration.
So now I have a file called as toleration dot yaml.
So let's quickly open this up.
And this is basically deployment where we are running five set of replicas of the nginx image similar
to what we had manually did in the previous commands.
Now along with that, along with this section, you also have a section called as the Tolerations.
Now within the Tolerations, you have specified that there is a key with the name of key, and the operator
here is exist and the effect here is no schedule.
So if you remember, we had added a key and we also added the effect of no schedule.
So this four lines basically acts as a pass.
So now let's go ahead and do a apply on toleration dot yaml and now let's do a kubectl get pods on the
output of wide.
And now you see these are the five replica pods and many of them are launched in the worker zero one
as well.
If you see many of them are launched in the worker zero one, some of them are also launched in the
worker zero two.
So this is very similar that if a pod has a path, which is the toleration, not only it can run in
the node, which has its associated taint, but it can also run on the node, which does not have any
taint which is applied to it.
Now remember here, because the value which we had assigned to the taint was key is equal to value colon
no schedule and this toleration should have a similar aspect to it.
So if you do a cube Ctl describe Node.
So currently you see it has key is equal to value colon no schedule.
And if you look into the toleration here, the key is called as the key over here because this is what
we had defined.
Operator is exists.
That basically means that this exists and the effect here was no schedule.
So there are multiple ways in which you can define toleration.
This is one of the ways that we had discussed over here.
Now, if you want to remove the taint associated with a specific node, you can just run the same command
with a hyphen at the end.
And now you see the node has been untainted.
So let's run the Describe Node command once again.
And if you go a bit up, it does not have a taint which is associated over here.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood the importance of taint as well as the Tolerations
here.
So that's about it for today's video.
Again, we'll be discussing more in detail about this specific topic in the later videos, but with
this, we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - Taints and Tolerations ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Requests and Limits in Kubernetes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about the resource requests and limits.
Now, if you schedule a large application in a node which has a limited resource, so by limited resource,
it can mean limited memory, limited CPU, then it will lead to a out of memory exceptions or others,
and ultimately it can also lead to a downtime.
So let's understand this.
So you have a scheduler and you have three nodes which are available Now, if you look the size of the
nodes are different here.
So the node one has a smaller size, Node two is medium and the Node three is the largest among all
of them.
And you have this app pod which you want to schedule.
Now, if you go ahead and run this app pod, then it can happen that your scheduler might assign that
app pod to the Node zero one, which was empty.
All right.
So if you look here, this node zero one is empty.
However, Node two and Node three are filled so it can happen that the app pod is assigned to Node zero
one.
And since app Pod requires much more higher resource than what Node one offers, it can lead to a downtime
over here.
All right.
So here within the first point, when I mean large application, that basically means the application
which needs huge amount of resources.
So in order to overcome this, you can manually specify that this specific pod requires, let's say
512 MB of Ram to run, and occasionally it might need a maximum of one GB of Ram.
So once your scheduler knows that this specific pod needs 512 MB of guaranteed Ram, then it might not
assign the node zero one because it can happen that the node zero one does not have that much amount
of memory.
Instead it can assign it to the Node zero three, which has that amount of sufficient Ram capacity which
is available.
So all of these can be achieved with the help of requests and limits.
So a request and limits are two ways in which we can control the amount of resource that can be assigned
to a given pod.
So a resource like CPU and memory is what is being considered here.
So there are two things.
One is request and second is limits.
Request basically means that a pod is guaranteed to get a specific amount of Ram or CPU which is defined
and you have limits.
Limits basically limits the amount of resources which a specific port can take.
So it makes sure that a container does not take a node resource above a specific value.
So this can be better understood with the diagram here where you have a green section which is associated
with the request.
So within the request you have 256 MB of Ram.
So when you define a request within your pod spec, then your scheduler will assign your pod to a node
which has 256 MB of Ram, which is available, which it can guarantee to a pod.
And you also have a limit here and within the limit you have specified 384 MB of Ram.
That basically means that Pod will be assigned a maximum of 384 MB of Ram.
It cannot take Ram more higher than 384 because what happens many times is that if the application gets
rogue, it takes huge amount of Ram and CPU, which is unexpected, and during that time you might want
to restart your application.
So limit basically helps in achieving a specific limit for your pod so that it does not affect the node
resource and the other pods.
So that's the high level overview about requests and limits.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into practical and understand more about it.
Now I'm going to add editor and we have a file of request hyphen limits dot yaml.
Now this is a simple template based on pod, so I hope you already know what this is.
Now the new thing here is the resources section where we are specifying a request and we are specifying
a limit.
All right.
So I hope you understood.
We have a request section and we have a limit section.
Now, within the request section over here we are specifying a memory of 64 and the CPU of 0.5 over
here.
And within the limits we are specifying a memory of 128 and the CPU of one.
So that basically means a single core CPU at a high level overview.
All right.
So this is a simple definition.
So now let's go ahead and run this.
So within the terminal, let's do a cube.
Ctl apply on the request hyphen limit dot yaml so it has created our pod and if you do a cube Ctl get
pods on output of why this pod is being assigned to one of the nodes over here.
So what scheduler does is that it looks into the request section over here and it checks about the memory
and CPU and it will schedule it to a node which has these specs which are available and where it can
guarantee this much amount of memory and this much amount of CPU to a given container.
Now let me show you a few interesting things here.
So when you do a cube, Ctl get nodes.
So you have three nodes which are available.
Let's go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl describe Node.
And let's add a node name over here.
Now, if you look into this specific section here, you can see that we have a labs hyphen pod which
is available.
And for all the pods which are running on that specific node, you have a section of CPU request, CPU
limits, memory request and memory limits.
So by now I hope you understood what this means.
Now we also have a pod called as CPU Labs Pod which is currently running on this node.
And if you look into the CPU request, it is 500m or 50%.
So we had defined 0.5.
So all of these nodes are basically based on a single core.
So 0.5 basically means 50%.
The CPU limit is one, which basically means 100%.
So a specific container can take 100% of a CPU of a single core.
Then you have a memory request, which is 64 MB and that constitutes to be 4% of the total host memory.
And the memory limit here is 128%.
So that basically means that my container cannot take a memory much more higher than 128, which is
the 8% of the total memory over here.
All right.
So now if you look into the different pods here, all of the pods have a different CPU request and memory
request and memory limits which are currently available.
So this constitutes to be a great factor in scheduling your pod on a specific node.
So I hope you understood at a high level overview what requests and limits are now in production.
It is considered as a best practice to manually specify requests and limits specifically to the pods,
which are going to take huge amount of memory and huge amount of CPU and also make use of a pod affinity
and pod anti-affinity to schedule your other pods to not run on the same node where a pod with a larger
resource is running.
So a few important pointers to remember that Kubernetes scheduler decides the idle node to run the pod
depending upon the request and limits.
Now if your pod requires, let's say, eight GB of Ram, however, there are no nodes within your cluster
which has eight GB of Ram, then your pod will never get scheduled over here.
So you have three approaches.
One is guaranteed.
Guaranteed is when let's say that you have a request and limits are equal.
So this is one of the approaches.
So guaranteed basically means that let's say you have a request which is specifying 64 MB of Ram.
So that is a guaranteed resource which will be provided by the scheduler, provided that a node is available.
Burstable basically is when your limits and your requests are not equal and best efforts is where you
do not really specify anything off requests and limits.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly look into the second point in the practical aspect so that we understand it.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and change the guaranteed memory to six GB of Ram.
Now currently we do not have any node which has six GB of Ram which is available.
So let's look into how scheduler will handle it.
Now before we do that, let's go ahead and delete the earlier pod which was created.
All right, so once it is deleted, let's go ahead and apply this change.
Now, this will fail.
So currently you see it gave an error saying that invalid value your requested should be greater or
equal to your memory limit.
Now what you have done here is that you have said that you need a guarantee of, let's say six GB.
However, you have limited it to 128.
So that's the reason why it's failing.
So let's change the limit to 12 GB.
Approx here and let's go ahead and apply your Yaml file.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods, currently you see that you have the labs hyphen pod and the pod is
within the pending status.
Now if you quickly do a kubectl describe pod.
Let's specify the port name.
And within the events here it says failed scheduling and it says zero out of three nodes are available
and it says insufficient resources.
All right.
So I hope you understood more in detail about requests and limits.
Now, one important part to remember is that your scheduler will schedule based on your request.
It will not really look into the limits.
Limit is something like a best effort.
However, request is the consideration based on which your pod will be scheduled to a given node.
So let's quickly do one thing.
Let's go ahead and delete the changes.
Now, as we were discussing that, your scheduler basically looks into this specific section.
It does not really look into this specific section of limits while scheduling.
So since your scheduler needs to guarantee that this much amount of memory and CPU are available, this
is the primary consideration.
Limits are taken into consideration, but not while selecting a specific node.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's change it to 64 and over here.
And the limits, let's say the limit is 12 GB of Ram.
Now let's verify if the scheduler is scheduling the pod now.
So let's delete the older pod.
And let's run the kubectl apply yet again.
So now if you do a kubectl get pods, you currently see that the pod is running.
So that basically means that your scheduler looked into the request section.
It find it found out that there are hosts which are available, which has 64 MB of Ram available as
well as the CPU and it scheduled here.
So although the limits here was 12 GB, it was taken into consideration in the aspect that your container
will not be able to take a memory and CPU consumption more higher than what is specified within the
limits.
However, for the scheduling aspect is concerned, the request is taken into the primary considerations.
So that's the high level overview about the resource requests and resource limits.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Code - Resource Limits ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Network Policies ---

Here and welcome back now into this video will be discussing about network policies in communities now
in communities by default, the ports are in a not isolated state.
That basically means that they exit traffic coming from any source.
So we can understand this with an example.
So let's say that you have Padoan so Padoan can communicate with part two or you can see that Padoan
in namespace dev can also communicate with the port in namespace staging.
So what happens is that let's say you Laurentine reports.
So all the hybrid ports are in the non isolated state.
So that basically means that all the boards will be able to communicate with each other.
Havilah, for the production environment, you might not really want to achieve that.
So this is very similar to firewall, where you can have multiple servers and you can create firewall
rules to either block or allow a specific traffic coming to a specific server.
Similarly, in communities as well, you can achieve that with the help of network policies.
No one network policy is basically a specification of how a group of boards are allowed to communicate
with each other and also the other network endpoints.
Now, for example, your board one can only communicate with Board five in the same namespace.
So Insert Stapleford will now board.
One cannot communicate with board two or three or part four and any other boards.
Now you are the second example.
You where to can only communicate with board then residing in the namespace of security.
So even with network policy you can even have a policy associated with namespace.
Then you have code example where no one should be able to communicate with the board.
So these are some diverse example which can allow us to understand the flexibility that network policy
allows us to achieve.
So let's do one thing.
Let's understand the practical implementation of network policy with the simple use case of a board
compromise.
So let's say that there are three boards within a specific corporate cluster and the board one, but
also the IP is compromised now by default, as we know that all the board will be able to communicate
with each other and generally during the occurrence of a compromise, what you would want is do you
want to isolate this board so that no communication happens to this specific board?
So you think, no, no one should be able to communicate with your board, one or part should not be
able to communicate with others.
So let's look into how we can achieve this in a practical way.
So let's quickly create a deployment.
So I think, you see, they'll run and we'll call it expert 01 and this time will make use of very major
busybodies.
All right, so we are currently inside our container.
Now, from a different I mean, let's go ahead and create part two.
From the image of a busy box yet again.
Great, now, as we're discussing in the first point, that by default, the ports are in a non isolated
state, that basically means that they can exert traffic from any source.
So let's try it out.
Now, when you do I have config, you will basically get the IP address associated with the Port zero
one.
Let's copy this IP address and let's try to bring this specific port zero one from the port zero two
container.
So let's go ahead and bring it, and you see the ping is successful, that means the communication is
perfectly workingmen's.
Now, discussing about the use case of a compromise here.
Now, since we're assuming that the Padoan is compromised, what we want is we want to isolate this
specific part.
So by default, the ports are in an isolated state.
We want to completely isolated this port so that the communication does not happen, though generally
whenever a compromise happens, it can be a site where machine what generally happens there is you isolated,
you do not delete it, because if you delete it, then all the aspects related to forensics and all
will be lost.
So what you do, you isolate it so that the communication cannot happen.
So let's look into how we can isolate this specific part.
So I have a simple policy here, if you look into the game, the game here is network policy and you
have also defined the namespace here.
Now, within this big section, we have a board select area and you're basically matching a label based
on rules.
So basically what will happen is it will apply this specific policy to all the parts, which basically
a specific label.
So to quickly try it, let's do what you see.
They'll get parts.
And since this is a positive one, let's actually believe it, or instead of attaching a label, you
can quickly do you see this crime on the part of your.
So we are keeping things simple now.
It already has a little bit of rain is equal to parts zero and so we can directly use this.
So let's see.
Ryan Esposito, one L.A., let's go ahead and see if this.
And I also have a third term in earlier where we can go ahead and apply the changes
before we go ahead and apply, let's go to the board 02 and keep the pain ongoing.
So that basically means that currently the connectivity is there and we look into what will happen as
soon as we go ahead and apply the changes.
So from the different dominant, let's get an update.
So it seems that the network policy has been creating.
Now, if you look here, the connection has stopped now no warping is happening, and that basically
means that the connection towards the president has been disconnected.
So this is the first part.
So let's go back to the terminal.
Let's talk to U.S. delegate parts and let's explain to the board, zero one here.
Oops.
It works be the message.
So from the president, what effect will be on Beaugard, can you see it works perfectly well.
So what our policy has done is that it has blocked all the ingress.
Traffic ingress basically means that the traffic which is coming inside, so any traffic which is coming
from outside towards that port will be blocked.
So that is a part of ingress.
Now, you also have an egress.
So let's adisa you also have an egress that basically means that all the traffic from that port towards
the outside world.
So that is the egress and ingress is from the outside world towards the port.
All right.
So you have two approaches in which you can typically block the network traffic primarily.
Now, there are other ways, as we discuss in a moment.
So let's go ahead and say this.
And if you see the pingers continuously happening so we can let it continue.
And from the next minute, let's go ahead and reapply that team this year, and it seems that the network
policy has been configured.
Now from you, if you will, see immediately the egress connectivity also went out and now the port
is isolated in terms of network connectivity.
So no other incoming package can come from outside towards the container nor the container can connect
to the outside world.
So coming back to the official documentation of network policies today, we basically explored the egress
as well as ingress.
However, there are a lot of flexibility on what you can isolate now within you.
You have a central example here which basically contains multiple examples on how you can block it.
So currently, if you see they have specified ingress and egress, but within ingress, they have also
specified the IP block here in terms of from.
So what is basically will do is that it will basically block this area.
So that is the first part.
And you have to accept a condition where it will allow from this specific area, so forth, it will
go ahead and block the entire Syeda except the IP addresses, which belongs to the last 24 Syeda.
So this is also one of the things that you can do now.
The second thing that you can achieve is the namespace selector.
Well, let's say you want at ports across names, we should not communicate.
You can make use of namespace selector.
Now the next thing is the board select.
No selector is something that we have already seen in today's video where we match the label based on
the labels which are associated with the board.
So these are some of the examples that you can go ahead and play around with as far as policies are
concerned.
So that's the high limit or we have a network policy.
I hope you understood what network policies are and the advantages that it provides so that this will
conclude this review.
I hope this video has been informative and I look forward to seeing the next video.

--- Code - Network Policies ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Important Note - Docker EE ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Docker Enterprise Edition ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the Docker Enterprise edition.
Now Docker Enterprise Edition, which is also referred as Docker E, is designed for enterprise development,
as well as for the IT teams who might want to build ship and run business critical applications in production
at a scale Now typically enterprise edition, the benefits of the enterprise edition is its stability,
its support and also some of the unique features with the enterprise edition might offer to you.
Now, this is the reason why if you talk about banks, which are running very critical applications
there, they do not really opt for Community Edition.
So till now we have been making use of community edition and in fact, Community Edition does work perfectly
and a lot of organizations are using community editions within their production environment.
But Community Edition does not come with the Docker Enterprise support.
So in case if something has stopped working or if it is not working as expected, you cannot really
get a support for that.
So this is the reason why a lot of enterprise, they opt for the enterprise edition, which is not only
stable but also supported.
Now when you talk about the enterprise edition platform.
So although it does provide you basic features like networking, orchestration, you have storage,
etcetera, it does comes with its own benefits, which includes a certain unique features like the Docker
Trusted Registry, the UCP and various others.
We'll look into that as well.
Now coming to the Docker tiers, which are available now, there are multiple tiers which are available
for Docker Enterprise.
So earlier it was referred as basic standard and advanced, now advanced.
So basically Docker Enterprise Advanced comes with a lot of features.
So here you see you have Docker Engine community, you have Docker Engine Enterprise and you have Docker
Enterprise.
So this Docker Enterprise, which is basically the advanced version, you see, it comes with a lot
of features which includes image security, scanning, container, app management, image management
and various others.
However, the community edition, it just comes with the basic features like container engine and built
in orchestration, networking and security.
Now it does not really come with various other features.
We'll look into what these features are all about.
So many of the organization, they extensively make use of the image security scanning.
So these are specific to security.
You also have various features like UCP, which comes with the Docker Enterprise edition.
So let me quickly show you one of them.
So this is the Docker UCP, which comes with the Docker Enterprise.
So this is referred as the universal control plane.
So this is basically a graphical user interface, which really makes it simple for you to go ahead and
manage the cluster.
Now within here you see it can manage both the Kubernetes as well as the swarm cluster.
So in case if you are managing swarm through things like CLI, so in such cases you have to manage,
let's say you want to deploy some kind of a services, you have to do all of those things through CLI.
Now through UCP, you can do everything with the help of GUI and here it also gives you the overall
utilization about the worker nodes.
It also allows a lot of granular access, like it allows you to have manage user and team so you can
have access control, you can have content test and various others.
Now coming back to the swarm, if you go to the services, you see you have services which is deployed.
So you have three out of three services which has been deployed within the various worker nodes which
are present.
Now there are a lot of other things which the universal control plane supports.
We'll be discussing about those in the relevant videos.
Now coming back on how you can access the enterprise edition, because for the exams you need to have
a overview about things like Universal control Plane, about Docker Trusted Registry and various others.
So the quick way is to opt for the Docker enterprise edition trial.
So basically in Google, if you quickly say Docker Enterprise Edition trial, let's go to the first
link, which is Hub.docker.com.
You have editions, Enterprise, Docker E trial, so you can just click on that and it will take you
to a page which is something similar to this.
So you can go ahead and start a one month trial.
In my case, I have already done that and this is the reason why I'm actually able to show you the Enterprise
edition, UCP, which is a universal control plane.
So I have opted for the trial and I have created a UCP and have added a license there.
Now again, we look into how we can do that, but make sure you opt for the one month trial.
Now, when you opt for the one month trial, you.
Will receive an email and you will have to confirm your subscription.
So this is only for one month now.
After your trial has been successfully approved, you will get a page something similar to this.
So if you see this is a one month trial and you can have up to ten nodes here Now if you click on setup,
so this is the page where you will be redirected to.
Now within this page you see you have the license key and this license key is quite important here.
You also have a URL here from which you can go ahead and download your enterprise edition.
Again, we'll look into these aspects at a later stage, but go ahead and register for the trial.
And once you are in this specific page, we'll look into how we can go ahead and download the enterprise
edition and also in the subsequent videos, look into how we can download and install the universal
control plane.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Installing Docker EE ---

Hey, Ryan, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can go ahead and install the Docker Enterprise edition.
So I hope you have already subscribed for the Docker Enterprise Edition trial.
Now, after subscription from your user, if you go to the My Content page, then you will be able to
see a page, something similar to what we have right now.
So here when you click on setup, you will be able to get the overview details.
Now one of the important details here would be the license key and you also have the URL through which
you can download the Docker Enterprise edition RPMs.
Now let me quickly copy up this URL and if I paste it in the browser, this looks something similar
to this.
So again, there is a different way in which you can configure depending upon the operating system.
So let me click on CentOS because we'll be using CentOS.
Now here you have a file called as Docker hyphen E dot repo.
So this is a important file.
So let's do one thing.
Let's click on copy link address and from my server, let's quickly do a wget and I'll press enter.
Great.
So it seems that Docker is using CloudFront as a CDN.
That is really great.
Anyways, so when you open up the Docker E hyphen repo.
So let's quickly do a nano on Docker E hyphen repo.
So these are basically the contents.
Now one thing that you will see over here, you have a variable here which is the Docker URL.
So this is something that you will have to define Anyways, let's copy this up.
I'll copy the Docker repo to Etsy.
Yum dot repos dot D.
Now do remember that the steps that we will be taking, it would be based on the CentOS based operating
system.
So it will work on something like Red Hat or it will even work on Amazon Linux.
Now once you have done that, the next part is to actually define the Docker URL.
So there are three basic steps which are required.
The first step here we are basically exporting the Docker URL.
So this specific URL is something that you can find from your instructions.
So this URL that we got over here, basically this we are referring to the Docker URL.
So this is the Docker URL.
So basically there are only three commands which are required anyways.
I'll be posting these three commands so that you can follow it.
So let's copy the first one and let's paste it.
Great.
I'll copy the second one and I'll paste the same.
So once you have both of these things configured, you can go ahead and download the Docker enterprise
edition.
So basically there are two packages over here.
One is the Docker, E, you have Docker E and you have the container d.io.
So in case if you want to see basically if you open up the seven year, you will be able to see the
RPMs which are present over here.
Let's open up this table 18.9.
Within the packages, you should be able to see all the RPM files which are present over here so you
can even download the RPM if you intend to.
So coming back to our CLI, I'll paste the command and let's press enter.
Great.
So our packages have now been installed.
So let's quickly do a system Ctl status on Docker.
So Docker is not running.
Let's go ahead and start the Docker service.
Great.
So now if you do a status on Docker, you should see the Docker service up and running.
Now, even if you do a Docker info, the thing should be up and running.
Now.
The next thing is for you to verify whether the things are working or not.
So let's quickly do one thing.
Let's do a Docker container run.
I'll specify name as BusyBox.
Let's use the BusyBox image and we'll connect to the switch.
Great.
So now if we quickly do a Docker, PS, you should see your container to be up and running.
So that's about it for this video.
Go ahead and install the Docker enterprise edition in your system.
So once you have enterprise edition in your system, then we can go ahead and explore various features
like UCP and others.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Docker EE Installation Steps ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Universal Control Plane ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the universal control plane.
Now, universal control plane, which is also referred as the UCP, is basically an enterprise grade
cluster management solution from Docker.
So UCP basically allows you to manage the Docker cluster and applications through a single interface.
Now, we have already seen a high level overview demo about how exactly the UCP really looks like.
Now.
Generally in the previous sections, we used to do various aspects like creating swarm cluster, deploying
services manually through the CLI.
However, with the help of UCP, you can do each and every aspect with the help of the UCP GUI itself.
Along with that, you also have various other features that we'll be exploring once we have the UCP
setup up and running.
Now discussing about the UCP architecture.
So UCP is basically a containerized application that runs on top of Docker Enterprise Edition.
So you have the Docker over here and this UCP is nothing but a container application.
So it is extremely simple to deploy.
You don't have to worry much about that Now.
Once you have the UCP deployed within your instance, you do not really have to interact via CLI.
With the help of Docker engine.
You can directly control the things that you need from the universal control plane.
Now there are certain minimum requirements required for the UCP and these are the minimum requirements
which are Docker suggests.
So the first thing you need to have the Docker enterprise engine up and running.
You need to have a minimum of eight GB of Ram for the manager node four GB of Ram for the worker nodes.
And in terms of disk it is recommended to have five GB of free disk space for the war partition for
the manager nodes and 500 MB of free disk space for the partition for the worker nodes.
Now these are the minimum requirements.
Now these are not the recommended requirements.
So when you come to the recommended requirements, this eight GB of Ram turns into 16 GB of Ram.
Now since we are going to work with Demo, we will go more minimum than the minimum requirements which
are specified over here.
So for our case we'll make use of a four GB Ram instance.
It works perfectly, but again, if you try to add a lot of things, it will slow down.
But just for the demo purposes and to understand the interface, it works well with the four GB Ram
itself.
So with this I still remember my time of gaming.
So earlier game used to have a quite high requirements, specifically the graphic cards.
So when you talk about games like Crysis or Assassin's Creed, it never my laptop or my workstation
never satisfied the requirement which was required for the game in terms of minimum requirements that
they had.
Even then, I still managed to run them with a lot of tweaking and little amount of lagging anyways,
so let's go ahead and install the UCP within our server.
So I'm in my Digitalocean and this Docker node, this is the node where we went ahead and we had installed
the Docker enterprise edition and this is the node where we will go ahead and install the UCP.
So currently if you see it has one GB of Ram and 25 GB of disk.
So in terms of disk requirement, I think we are quite good enough.
So within the server, if I can do a DF hyphen edge, you will see that there is the root volume here
and the root volume has 25 GB and there is no separate war partitions.
We should be quite good here.
So what we need to do is we have to increase the size of this droplet from one GB of Ram to four GB
of Ram.
So I'll go ahead and I'll do a halt.
Now, if you are making use of Digitalocean, it does take a minute or two for the instance to shut
down.
Same goes with the EC2 instances as well.
So if you have good money you can go ahead and do a minimum requirement of eight GB Ram, but four GB
of Ram should suffice as of the initial demo.
If it does not suffice during the later videos, we'll go ahead and increase our droplet size.
All right, so it has been around two minutes and if you see our droplet has now been stopped.
So let's go inside the droplet.
I'll go to the resize here and we'll make it to four GB ram over here.
All right, so currently it is one GB.
I'll move it to four GB.
Let's go a bit down and we'll click on resize.
Now in case if you're using digital Ocean and you see the other options are currently blacked out.
The reason why it is blacked out, if you just click here, it basically says that you need to add an
additional payment to unlock these type of instances.
So anyways, let's quickly wait for a moment for the resize to happen and then we'll go ahead and install
the UCP.
Great.
So our droplet has now been resized.
So what we can do now is we can go ahead and start our droplet.
So once your droplet has started to work, let's go ahead and connect to our droplet here.
And perfect.
We are connected to our droplet.
Now, we already discussed that the UCP is a containerized application so we can directly go ahead and
pull it.
Now there are certain requirements here, so basically I'll post this command so you can also try it
out.
The first thing is you have to put the host IP address over here.
So in my case, I'll put the public IP address of my instance.
So I'll just put the public IP.
And there is also an option for force minimums.
Now this is required because if you do not do that, then the UCP will not install because we already
discussed that a UCP needs a minimum of eight GB of Ram.
So that's why we are passing this force minimums command.
So this will force the installation of UCP.
So I'll paste the command here and I'll press enter.
Great.
So our UCP has been successfully downloaded.
So what we'll do is it is giving you the login credentials for the UCP and also the IP address.
So let's copy this up and I'll paste it here.
Make sure you save this because you will need this while logging in.
Now once you have saved this within your document, let's do one thing.
Let's copy this URL and I'll paste it within my browser.
So again, we can ignore the certificate part as of now.
So this is how the console login page looks like.
So let's quickly add the username, which is admin and I'll copy the password and I'll add the password
here.
So the next thing is to upload your license.
This is very important.
So we already have the license downloaded so I can click on upload license.
Now in case you don't have it downloaded, you can go to your Docker page and just click on License
key over here and it will go ahead and download the license key within your laptop or within your workstation.
So I'll click on upload license.
And I have added my license here.
Great.
So once you have done that, this is how the Docker UCP plane looks like.
Now, if you look into the warning message here, it basically says that manager node Docker E does
not have enough memory.
You suggests a minimum of four GB ram.
Now you might ask say, hey, you said that minimum of eight GB of Ram is required for the manager node.
How come you keep showing that minimum of four GB ram is required?
So there is a little deviation when it comes to the documentation and once it comes to the actual product.
So basically if you look into the system requirements, so this is the official system requirements
from the Docker documentation, you see it says that the minimum requirement of eight GB ram for the
manager node.
However, from the UCP, it says that the UCP suggests a minimum of four GB ram.
So now we will ignore this aspect for exams documentation is the right point of contact.
So whatever documentation states, we'll just follow that.
I hope that Docker would fix this issue at the later stage anyways, but this is just for a FYI.
Now within the Docker UCP currently this is the dashboard plane.
Now you can deploy Kubernetes, you can even have Swarm, so you can even deploy Swarm.
Now for the exam perspective, our understanding of swarm is required.
So in the upcoming videos, we look into how we can go ahead and create a new swarm cluster through
the UCP and also explore some basic features with the UCP provides.
So that's about it for the universal control plane.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Installing Docker UCP ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Deploying Global Services in Swam via UCP ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, since we have our docker up and running, we can go ahead and understand more about some of the
features of UCP, which are important for the exams.
Now one of the important one is you should be aware about how you can go ahead and deploy a swarm service
with the help of UCP.
So let's go ahead and look into how we can achieve that.
Now we already have discussed that in order to deploy Swarm, you need to have certain amount of nodes.
Now, in my case, I have created one more droplet in my digital ocean and I have configured this with
the Docker enterprise edition.
So this is my new server.
So if I quickly do a Docker info, you would see that the product license is currently active.
So with this, I'm sure you already know on how you can go ahead and install the Docker enterprise edition
within the servers.
Now the first thing that we can do is currently if you see there are zero worker nodes which are available
over here.
So if you go a bit down, there is a option for Add nodes.
So let's go ahead and click here.
And here you can go ahead and select the node type, which can be Windows Linux as well as the node
role.
So node role is worker and the node type is Linux.
Now here it basically gives you the command which you need to run from the corresponding node.
So I'll copy this command up and I'll run that command here.
Now before we go ahead and run it, if I do a Docker.
PS Currently you see there are no containers which are up and running, so let's go ahead and run the
command.
And now it is that this node has joined the swarm as a worker.
Now, going back to our swarm cluster, let's go ahead and refresh it.
So here you should be able to see one worker node.
Now what UCP does is that once a worker node has been connected, it goes ahead and installs some agent
which will be running on those worker nodes.
So it takes a little amount of time.
So if I can quickly do a Docker.
PS You see certain agents which are in form of the container are now running within the worker nodes.
So after that you will be able to see graphs similar to this in terms of the utilization in the worker
nodes.
So you don't really need to go towards the worker nodes to see the overall utilization over there.
Now once you have the worker node up and running, you can go to swarm and you can go to services.
So you can go ahead and create a new service here.
So you can give it a name.
Let's give it a name of my Nginx and the image.
You can just put it as nginx over here.
So along with that, the typical things that you would have done in terms of the CLI commands, I hope
you understand difference between replicated and global.
So the things that you would typically do through the CLI are the same things that you can do through
GUI.
So currently you can add the reservations in terms of CPU, in terms of memory, etcetera.
So all of these things are now achieved with the help of the GUI.
So let's quickly do one thing.
I'll just put it as a global service and we can go ahead and verify.
So the name of the service is my Ingenix.
The image name is Nginx and we'll go ahead and create the service.
Great.
So currently it is showing zero out of two.
Now, since this is a global service, it will install within the node itself where our UCP is running
and it will also go ahead and install within the worker node.
So the status is one out of two.
Let's quickly wait for a moment here and you see it is two out of two.
So here, if you quickly want to verify if I do a docker, PS, you should see that you have the Nginx
container which is up and running.
So the entire aspect related to service deployments, networks, everything can be handled with the
help of GUI, with the UCP.
So in case if you want to remove this specific service, you can select the service here.
Let's go ahead and remove this and I'll do a confirm.
So now the service has been removed successfully.
Now in case if you want to go back to the dashboard, you can click on dashboard over here.
And for the worker node you see now the statistics has started to come in terms of CPU, terms of memory
and in terms of disk.
So this is very important because let's say you have hundreds of worker nodes.
You can get the overview statistics from the UCP itself.
So that's about it for creating a swarm service with the help of UCP and also on how you can add a worker
node with the help of the UCP.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- UCP - Access Control ---

Haroon and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the access control model in the universal control plan.
Now, Dr. UCP basically allows us to have a granular access control feature, which allows us to define
various aspects like who can create and edit container resources within Islam cluster and various others.
So while we are discussing about the access control model, there are three important concepts that
we need to understand.
First is this subject.
Second is the rule.
And third is the collection.
So from this specific diagram, it would be much more clearer that lets it subject basically contains
multiple teams.
So let's say you have an organization.
So this can be an organization name.
And within the organization there are multiple teams.
Right, because if you're working in an organization, there can be multiple teams like developers,
developers, then you might have security team extra.
No, each team can be associated with a specific role so they can be associated with a role like full
control.
You can have read-only, they control, no access cetera.
And then this specific role can be associated with a node or a service.
So let's say that you have a read-only rule so we can associate this read-only role with only a certain
set of collection.
So a collection can contain services.
It can contain nodes and various others.
So this restrict rent control only applies here to Norway.
It applies here to secret B..
And so we this restricted control has no access to the collection and collection.
So let's understand each of these terminology.
Indeed.
So the first one is the subject.
Now, a subject here represents a user bee or organization.
Now a subject in is granted an appropriate tool.
So when we're discussing about user team or organization Oriya, so the user basically means that he
sees the individual user.
Now, you also have organization here because if you see within this object, you have organization
here.
So this organization is basically a group of users that would share a specific set of permission, which
is defined by the rules of the organization, and it can also have a team.
So subject can also include a team.
Your search team is a group of users that shares the set of core mission defined within the team itself
and even exists only as part of an organization.
So whenever you are creating a team, you have to associate it within the organization directly.
So that's about the subject.
The next part is the rules.
So rule is a set of permitted eBay operation that you can assign to a specific subject and collection.
So if you already discussed that, let's assume that you have a subject of team me and you've assigned
a rule of restricted control.
So this restricted control is associated with that being be it, and it is also associated with a set
of collections.
So in the set of collection is not a secret B and service.
So this specific team, any user which are part of this team, will have restricted controls on the
collections.
So whatever collection that you have specified for you.
And last but not least, we should also understand what collections are.
So what can you define in this specific collection?
So as far as some resources are concerned, we can place various aspects like physical or virtual.
Also, if you have five worker nodes, you can specify what nodes are part of the collection.
You can specify the containers, you can specify services.
You have networks, volume, secrets, as well as the application configurations.
So you can specify what exactly is part of the collection year and only for that sort of collection
you can associate restricted control.
So I hope at the high level or you understood what exactly this specific would mean.
So let's do something.
Let's jump into practical and look into how we can go ahead and create this type of architecture.
So I'm in my advocate of universal control plan, and this is the main Dysport now within the type of
access control you see, you have various subtypes, audio.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go to the user step and I'll create a user here.
So the user name, let me give it as host.
And I associate a password with this user, so I'll give it for forelimb as well.
And I click on Create.
Great, so the user is now creating.
Now let's do one thing, let's go to organizations.
So by default, you have the organization called Dockerty designed let's create a new organization.
I call this organization Escapology and I'll go ahead and created a grid.
So our organization is now created.
So if you were looking to the diagram, you're within this object.
You have organization within organization, you have teams and associated with the teams, you can have
users.
So within the organization, you it says that we do not have a team here so we can go ahead and create
a team.
So let's call it this team as developers and I on create grid.
So our team is now creating now within team, you would see that the member count is zero.
So there are no members.
So we can go ahead and add a user.
So I'll add the user names and then click on add user grid.
So the user has been added so as far as no other subject is created.
So we had created an organization, we had created a team, we also created a user.
And we associated that user with the respective team.
No, not next part is the rules.
No, if we go to the rules here, you have rules for communities.
You have rules for one.
Now, there are certain pre-built rules which are created like we're only restricted control, full
control, etc. However, Suan allows you to create your own custom rules of it.
So let's look into how that can be achieved.
So if I click on Created, let's call this as custom developer Perun, I'll go to operations and within
operations, you can specify in detail on what are the operations that you want to be allowed.
So let's go into the container operations.
So these are all the container operations here.
So let's say you allow container removal operation, you allow container rename containers start and
container stop operation.
You can click on Create Green.
So now you see are custom developer role has been created successfully, so a rule has been created
successfully.
Now the next part here is the collections.
So within the UCB, if you go a big down, in fact, let me just minimize this.
Otherwise it becomes a little confusing.
So collections are basically part of shared resources.
So you see you have collections, so you have a swarm.
And this is because currently we do not really have any services and hence it is empty.
So let's click on View Children and we can go ahead and create our own collection.
So as we were discussing within collection, we can specify various aspects like nowadays, Secret Service,
etc. So within the collection you can apply label constraints.
I hope you understand now on what the constraints mean so you can specify node name and various other
aspects and we will not create this as of now.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go back to the access control will go to the organization PIMS.
Let's go to the Cape LEPs.
So currently you have a developer group.
Now we want to associate this developer group to a roll call is restricted control.
So now basically, if you want to associate this specific law, let's assume that this is a restricted,
controlled rule.
If you want to associate with a specific subject, then you have to make use of Grymes.
So let's go to form and let's create a grant here.
So this grant would be the organization level one.
I select the ground where organization is capable and the key is the developers I click on next.
So this is the collection.
We can go ahead and select the appropriate collection.
And you also have the rule.
I say the rule is custom developer rule.
I click on create.
So this is how you can go ahead and create the mapping between a specific subject to a specific rule.
So that's about it.
For this specific, we do.
I hope at a high level of you, you understood the concept of subject, the concept of rules, the concept
of collection.
Now, in order for you to associate the rules with the teams as well as with the collection, we make
use of ground where you can go ahead and associate a specific rule would at the subject level as well
as the collection level.
So that's about it for this.
We do.
I hope this video has been informative for you, and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Docker Trusted Registry ---

Haydon And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the Docker Trusted Registry.
Now the Docker Trusted Registry, which is also referred as the Detr, is an enterprise grade image
storage solution from Docker.
Now this is how the Detr looks like.
So basically Docker provides a graphical user interface for the data, so it becomes much more easier
for us to manage the registry.
Now the Detr provides many features that helps in the overall enterprise grade container management.
Now some of these feature includes security scanning.
You have image signing you have built in access control, you have caching images and various others.
Now talking about the architecture of Detr.
So again, similar to the universal control plane, Detr is also a containerized application that runs
on the Docker cluster.
So this is where the Docker Trusted Registry comes into the picture.
Now, one important part to remember over here.
Now, if you see, you need to have a universal control plane.
Now, basically there are certain important system requirements that you need to understand.
The first one is that the Detr should have a minimum of 16 GB of Ram for nodes running DDR.
You should have two virtual CPUs For the nodes running the DDR, you should have ten GB of free disk
space and few important ones are that the DDR server must be a worker node, which in turn is managed
by the UCP.
So you need to make sure that wherever you are installing the DDR, that node is a worker node as part
of the UCP.
And the second requirement is that there should be a fixed hostname for that specific worker node.
Now coming back to the Docker documentation, if you look into the requirements for the Docker trusted
Registry, you will see that in a minimum requirement.
Here it says that you should run 16 GB of Ram for the nodes running DDR.
Now in terms of Ram, both the minimum and the recommended requirements are the same, so both are 16
GB.
However, there is a difference in terms of Vcpus.
So for the minimum it is requiring two vcpu and recommended is four vcpu.
So this is how the Docker trusted registry looks like.
Now I have installed this Docker trusted registry in a one GB Ram and a one core CPU server.
So again, since this is going to be used for demo, we will not really require such a high CPU and
such a high amount of memory.
So this is how it looks like.
Now if you look into the systems, let's look into some of the features of DDR.
So within here, the first great feature is the single sign on so you can integrate it with your provider.
Now the great thing is the storage.
Now if you look into the storage, you have options for NFS, Bind Mount as well as volume.
Now here you also have integration with cloud.
So you see you can in fact integrate the DDR to use S3 as the storage endpoint.
So if you can put access key secret key as well as the region and the endpoint, the data would be storing
the data there.
So this is a great feature.
Now the next step, this is one of my favorite feature, which is the image scanning.
So whatever image that is been uploaded to the DDR, you can perform a vulnerability scanning to see
if that image has vulnerabilities or not.
So these are some of the important settings of DDR.
Now we were already looking into the architecture where we need to install DDR in a node which is controlled
by the UCP.
So UCP tightly integrates with the Docker Trusted Registry, now within the UCP node.
So this is my universal control plane and from admin, if I go to the admin settings here and within
the Docker Trusted Registry, you see this is the IP address where our DDR is installed.
And if you compare this 150 1.1 32 So this IP address is the same where our DDR is installed.
So Docker UCP is integrated with the DDR.
Now the same thing because in the UCP we had created certain users.
So if you go to the access control, you see we had created a username as Hush and we had also created
a organization called as KP Labs.
Now the same gets integrated here.
If you look into the organization in the DDR, you will see that there is a new organization called
as KP Labs here and you also have a username as Hush, which is directly synced from the universal control
plane.
So that's about it At a high level overview about the Docker Trusted Registry and the feature sets it
provides.
So with this, we'll conclude this video, I hope.
This video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Installing DTR & Integrating with UCP ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we discussed the basics about Docker Trusted Registry.
We also had an overview demo on how exactly the graphical interface of that looks like.
So in today's video, we will look into how we can go ahead and install the Docker Trusted Registry
and how it can be integrated with the universal control plane.
Now currently I am logged in to my universal control plane and this is basically the main dashboard.
Now we already discussed that for the TR to be installed within the system requirements that the node
where the TR would be installed, it needs to be a worker node which is managed by the ECP.
So within our UCP currently we have one worker node which is up and running and this is the worker node
where we are going to install the TR.
So this worker node we had configured in the earlier videos, so I hope you know on how we can go ahead
and configure that.
Now if you look into the admin, let's go to the admin settings.
Now within here there is a tab of Docker trusted registry and currently it basically does not have any
value which is associated.
Now within this specific configuration, you can specify within the UCP node, it will show you the
list of worker nodes.
So you have Node zero one, which we had configured earlier.
So I'll select the Node zero one and as soon as I selected it, it basically gave us the command.
So this is the command that you need to run to install the TR.
Now along with that, just make sure you disable the TLS verification for the UCP because as of now
we don't really have a secured certificates, so I'll copy this commands up and within my text document,
let me actually paste it and I'll just create them in a single line.
So let's put it together.
Great.
So I'll copy this entire command here and I'll paste it here.
Now, if you look into the command here, in fact, let me open up the document here.
So within the command we are specifying with the hyphen hyphen UCP URL, we are specifying the UCP URL
in which this would be integrated and currently it is asking for the password.
So this password is basically the password of the UCP.
So the node where our UCP is created, we have to put the password here, so I'll paste the password.
And I'll press enter.
So do you remember that?
Here we are specifying the UCP username as well.
So you have to specify the password which is associated with the admin username.
So let's quickly wait for the moment for the installation to take place.
Great.
So our installation has been completed.
Now, if you want to access the data, just find the IP address of your server.
Let's go to the zero interface in my case.
So this is the public IP address of my server.
I'll copy this up and with the https, I'll paste it within my browser.
So it's Https then your IP address.
So currently it will show you that your connection is not private.
It's fine because these are the self-signed certificates.
Great.
So in my case it automatically logged in.
Now the reason why it automatically logged in was because we had a demo which we had taken in the earlier
video.
So the demo that we had shown already had the password.
However, if you just log out here.
So basically this is how it would look like whenever you try to log in the first time.
So you have to put the admin and password here.
So the admin and password that you put over here, that would be the admin and the password of the node.
So I'll go ahead and I'll do a sign in and this is how things would look like as we discussed since
our Uceap let me in fact show you since our uceap has certain users like hers and it has certain organizations
like labs, it would be synced.
So if you look here, you should see a user called as hers, as well as the organization called as Labs.
So that's the high level overview about the installation of Docker Trusted Registry.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Installation of Docker DTR ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Un-Installation steps for DTR ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how you can go ahead and uninstall the Docker Trusted Registry.
So this is the node where our Docker trusted registry is installed and there are a lot of containers
if you see which are running now in order to uninstall the DDR, there are certain commands that you
need to run.
Now I have created a text document which contains all the commands and I'll be posting this in the forum
along with the video.
So in order to uninstall the DDR, you have to run this specific command.
So let me copy this up and I'll paste it within the node.
Now if you see during the Uninstallation process, it is basically asking you for the UCP URL.
Now the UCP URL is something that you would have configured while you were installing the DDR, so make
sure that you have this handy.
So I'll copy this URL up and I'll paste it here.
Now you have to give the admin username and password so it will basically ask you the replica to destroy.
I'll just press enter.
So now it is going ahead and stopping all the containers and it will go ahead and remove the DDR.
Great.
So the DDR has now been removed.
However, this is not it.
Now if you go into the Docker universal control plane, in fact, let me quickly refresh here.
Let's go to the admin.
We'll go to the admin settings here and within the Docker Trusted Registry.
You still see that within the installed, it is still showing you the IP address whether was installed.
So now there is one more additional step that you need to take.
Typically when you go ahead and uninstall an the entry still remains here.
So there is an additional step that you need to take in the node in order to remove the stale entry.
And that additional step is basically mentioned in one of the articles within the Docker website.
So we'll be using this again.
I have posted the link to this article within the document so you can refer this.
So if you go a bit down, there are two commands that you need to run in order to ensure that these
entry is been removed.
So coming back to the Docker Success page, let's go ahead and run our first command.
I'll use this specific command here and within our node.
So this is the node, I'll paste the command here.
So you will have this as an output.
So this is basically pointing to the IP address.
So once you have this, then you need to run the second command.
Now the second command in this command, the specific value.
So this specific value is a variable.
So let's try it out.
So let's do one thing.
Let's copy till here, I'll copy it here, I'll paste it here, and then we can copy the entry that
was as part of the output and then you can move it to dev null.
Great.
So if you get one as the output, that is the one that you are expecting.
So now let's run the same command and currently you see, so this is the first command that we had run.
So I hope you remember we had run first command here.
This is the first command and this is the second command.
After the second command has executed, you run the first command to verify and here you do not really
see any output over here.
So things seems to be working perfectly.
But let's quickly verify here.
So within the UCP, let me go ahead and refresh the page.
And you see the stale entry has went away, so that's about it.
On how you can go ahead and uninstall the Docker Trusted registry.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Un-Installing DTR ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Configuring Trusted CA and Pushing Images to DTR ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will look into how we can push the image to the Docker Trusted registry.
Now, in one of the earlier videos, we looked into the Uninstallation steps related to the DDR, so
I'll quickly go ahead and install the DDR yet again.
I hope by now you already know on how you can go ahead and install the DDR.
So basically these are the commands which are required to install the DDR, so I'll copy the command
to install the DDR.
So I hope you already know this command because we had run it in the earlier video.
So here you have to put the password and once you put the password it will go ahead and install the
DDR.
So let's quickly wait for a moment till the DDR has been installed.
So our DDR has been installed.
Now among this, there is one important part to remember here, which is the TLS, so let me just copy
this up for our reference and within our text file, I'll basically paste it over here.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try to log in.
So I'll put the admin and let's put the password here.
And now you see it basically is giving you a failed response which says that the X509 certificate signed
by an unknown authority.
So basically the verification is failing.
Now the same can be seen from the browser.
If you do a ifconfig here, let's take the public IP address and within the browser, if you just paste
it here, you basically see it states that the connection is not private.
So for us, in order to be able to log in or in order to be able to push or pull the images, we have
to have a trusted.
CA So this can work even with the Self-signed Certificate Authority, but there are certain additional
steps which are required Anyways.
Before we do that, let's quickly log in to our DTR here.
So I'll put the username and I'll put the password.
Great.
So the first thing is we need to have a repository where we can push or pull the images from.
So I'll use the repositories as admin and let's call this as web server.
So the visibility, let's put it as public and I'll click on Create.
Great.
So our repository is now created and in this repository we'll go ahead and push or pull the images.
Now the first thing that you need to do is to download the certificate authority file from the DTR.
So I have formulated all the commands that we'll be using.
So here we are basically downloading this specific file, which is the CA file from the IP address.
So let's go ahead and download this app.
Great.
So now if you do an LS, you will see that this is the certificate file.
So now we have to move this CA file to a specific location.
Now as far as the Red hat based systems are concerned, like CentOS or Amazon Linux, this is the location
where you can go ahead and move the file.
If you are in Ubuntu, the location changes so the location is e-t-c.
Pkey sae-a trust source anchor example.com.
So this example.com can be your custom defined name.
It can be domain.com or your name.com.
Anyways, so let's copy this up and I'll paste it.
So it is asking whether I want to overwrite.
I'll just press.
Yes.
Now the next step is to update your CA trust.
So let's go ahead and update the CA trust here.
Great.
And after you do that you can go ahead and restart your docker.
Great.
So our docker is now restarted.
So if we quickly do a Systemctl status on Docker, everything seems to be working perfectly.
Now if you look into the TLS certificate, so it has basically this TLS certificate currently supports
following DNS names.
So it is Starcom, you have Star Dot Starcom, you have Example.com, you have star, etcetera.
So these are the supported names.
So among this we have taken up the example.com.
You can even use something like Yourname.com over here.
It will perfectly work fine.
All right.
So the next thing is let's say that we have used example.com, so we have to associate that example.com
within our host entry because the example.com is not a resolvable domain as far as the ETR is concerned.
So let's do one thing.
Let's take the ifconfig eth0.
So this is our public IP address here and I'll go to the Etsy hosts and I'll say Example.com and I'll
put the IP address.
So I'll go ahead and I'll save it.
So now you can go ahead and do a Docker login on example.com.
So you have to put the admin username and the admin password.
So this would be the admin username and password.
So after you have done that you see you are able to successfully login.
Now the next thing is to verify whether we are able to push the image to the Docker DDR.
So in order to do that, let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and pull a BusyBox image.
So I'll say Docker pull BusyBox.
Great.
So once our BusyBox image has been pulled, we can verify with the Docker images command and you will
see that we have the BusyBox image which is currently present.
So now we have to push this specific BusyBox image to our DDR.
So I hope you already know the process in which we can do that.
So I'll say Docker Tag BusyBox, I'll put it as latest and you have to specify the repository name,
which is Example.com.
Then we'll have to put the repository, which is admin slash web server.
So I'll say admin slash web server and you can specify the version.
So I'll specify version one.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker images, you should see that there is one image here.
So now we can go ahead and do a Docker push.
I'll specify the version one.
And it went ahead and pushed this specific image to the DDR.
So let's quickly verify this.
So let's go back to the repository.
I'll select the repository that we have here.
And within here, if you look into the tag, you see there is one image called as version one and it
has a specific size.
So it was pushed 16 seconds ago.
So this is the way in which you can go ahead and push an image to DDR.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Configuring Trusted CA and Pushing Images to DTR ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of DTR Backup ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the backup.
Now, a Docker provides a backup command that allows us to perform the backup on Docker.
Now, one important part to remember is that the backup command doesn't really cause downtime for DDR,
so you don't really have to take down DDR before you take the backup so you can go ahead and take frequent
backups without affecting your users.
Now, in order to perform the backup, you need to run a specific command.
So this is the command that we need to run.
So basically if you see it's Docker run, then you have you have hyphen, I you have hyphen hyphen.
RM Then you have Docker slash DDR.
So this is the image and we are using the backup command here.
We are specifying the URL.
So this is the UCP URL here.
Then we are specifying the UCP insecure TLS.
Now this is important because we don't really have a trusted CA here.
Then we are specifying the UCP username, which is the admin, the UCP password.
You can supply your password here and then we are sending it to a file called as backup.
So this is where the contents of the backup would be stored.
So let's go ahead and run this command and see on what exactly happens.
So this is my CLI and basically I have pasted the command here.
The only thing that I have replaced here is the UCP password.
So this is one of the random password that I have generated.
So now basically we are sending it to the backup, so let's go ahead and run this command.
So it will basically ask which replica to backup from.
So I'll just select the default one.
Great.
So now you see it says that the backup is now completed.
Now, if you quickly do an ls hyphen L, you will see that there is one file called as backup.tr.
Now if you do a do hyphen on backup dot tar to see the size.
The size is just 2.6 MB.
Now the question is how come?
So basically if you go to TR within my repository, you will see that there are multiple images over
here.
One image has a size of 67 MB second image has a size of 61 MB.
However, the backup which was taken is only of size 2.6 MB.
So let's go ahead and understand on what exactly this command does.
Now the backup command only creates the backup of the configurations and the image metadata.
Now it does not really backup the users and the organizations.
So if you want to backup the users and organizations, you can take the backup.
Now, it also does not really backup the Docker images, which is stored within your registry.
So this is important part to remember because in exams you might get a question where they'll show you
that an administrator has run this command.
So what exactly will be backed up or what exactly will not be backed up?
So I hope you know, on what exactly will not be backed up.
So any users or any organizations or any images which are part of your data will not be backed up.
Now, let me quickly show you one part here.
So this is my UCP.
Now, within the Access control, let me go ahead and create a user over here.
So let's say I go ahead and create a user called as CP Labs and I assign a specific password to it.
I'll labs user So this user has been created in the UCP.
Now within the Detr, if you go to user, you will see that the same user is appearing over here and
this is the reason why it is recommended that anytime if you want to take a backup of users and organizations,
you can directly take that backup from the UCP.
You don't really have to take it from the Detr, and this is the reason why the backup command does
not really backup the users and the organizations over here.
So that's the high level overview about the backup.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - DTR Backup Command ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- DTR Backup - Images ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
Now at a high level overview, we'll discuss on how we can go ahead and take a backup of images.
Now, we already know that when you run a backup command, it does not backup a lot of things like organizations,
users, images as well.
So as far as the images is concerned, we already know that the data supports multiple backends to store
the image.
Now, depending upon the backend that you are using, the backup procedure of that specific image would
differ accordingly.
Now, if you're using a local volume based setup for your DDR, you can backup the volume associated
with the DDR registry.
So let's quickly look into what exactly this means.
So this is the docker.
Now, if you go to the systems and under the storage now here you see that there are multiple storage
type.
One is the file system, one where you can use NFS, you can make use of bind mount and you can make
use of volume.
So if you are making use of volume over here, so currently you see the volume is selected.
So that basically means that whatever images which are stored within your DDR, they would be part of
the Docker volume.
And here it is also showing you on the name associated with the Docker volume.
So let's quickly find this out.
So I'm in my CLI where the DDR is installed.
So now if I do a Docker volume LS, you will see that there are multiple volumes which are associated
with it.
Now within this guy you see this basically gives you the name of the volume, whether registry related
data is stored, which is DDR hyphen registry.
So within the Docker volume LS, you will see that you have a hyphen registry.
So if you do a var lib Docker volumes, you will see that there is a directory of DDR hyphen registry.
So you can directly take a backup like tar Kvf you can say DDR hyphen registry hyphen, backup dot tar
dot GZ and you can specify the destination name which is DDR hyphen registry.
So in this way what will happen is whatever contents which are part of this specific directory, so
this specific backup would have those contents.
So this is like a compressed file that we are doing now.
That specific way is only associated when you have a DDR registry.
So this is of type volume.
So if you have a different approach like S3 or Azure or even GCP or OpenStack Swift, these solutions
are typically highly available.
So when you talk about S3 and you are basically storing the images in Amazon S3 So here the backup would
be little different.
Like you can have various strategies like cross region replication or you can move the data to Glacier.
ET cetera.
So again, depending upon the cloud storage provider that you might choose, the way in which you can
have high availability might be different depending upon the destination cloud provider.
So that's the high level overview about how you can take the backup of the images in DDR.
Again, it is recommended that you should avoid directly storing in the underlying volume.
You can make use of NFS because if you are hosting your infrastructure in AWS has a great service called
as EFS, which is highly available.
So in that case you can make use of NFS or you can even store the data in things like S3, which by
default provides high availability for the storage.

--- Overview of Swarm Routing Mesh ---

You.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the routing mesh in Swarm.
Now, we already know that there can be multiple nodes participating within a swarm cluster.
So when we create a service, the task can be assigned to any of the nodes depending on various factors
like replica sets, labels and other constraints.
Now, routing mesh enables each node in the swarm to accept the connection on the published ports for
any service running in the swarm, even if there is no task running on the node.
Now this is very important.
So basically similar concept you will see even in Kubernetes.
So if you understand the routing mesh here, while you are learning Kubernetes, this will become much
more simpler.
So let's go ahead and understand what exactly the third point mean.
So here you see that you have two containers which are running in server, one in server two, and there
is no container which is running in server three, which is the node three.
So this container is basically listening on port 80.
So this is inside the container.
However, on the server side it is listening on port 8080.
So any request which is being made to port 8080 of of the node one will be redirected to port 80 of
the container.
So what routing mesh really does is that.
So here in Node three you see that there is no container which is running.
So even if there is no container which is running and if there is a request which is made on the port
8080 of the Node three, the request will automatically be redirected towards the node where the container
is actively running.
So this is what the routing mesh is all about.
Routing mesh basically it does not really need that.
The container should be running all the time, even if the container is not running and even if the
request is being made to the node where the container is not present, the node will automatically send
the request to other nodes where that container is active.
So let me quickly give you a demo on how exactly it might look like.
So this is my swarm node, so if I can quickly do a Docker node LS, you will see that there are two
nodes within the swarm and this specific node which ends with the IP of 211.
So if you see this is 211.
So this is acting as a master node and the other one acts as a worker node.
So if I can quickly show you.
So this is master and this is the worker node.
Great.
So now if I can quickly do a Docker service.
LS you will see that I have one service which is created here and if you do a Docker service PS on my
web, you will see that this service basically has one container which is up and running and this container
is created on the server which has the IP address of 211, which is the present server.
So if I do a Docker PS here, you will see that I have one container up and running now within the Docker
service.
LS command Now in fact let me clear the screen.
So within the Docker service LS command, you will see that I have port 8080, which is mapped to the
port 80 of the container.
So this container so this specific container is running Nginx.
So now what happens is that any request which is made to port 8080 will be redirected to port 80 inside
the container.
This is something that I'm sure that everyone would know by now.
So if I do a curl on 127.0.0.1 on 8080 you will see that you are able to see the Nginx default page.
Now this works perfectly because this request is currently made on the node where the container is running.
However, from the worker node if I do a docker PS here you see that there are no containers which are
running.
And even from here, if I do 127.0.0.1 on 8080 you will see that you are still able to see the Nginx
default.
Welcome page.
So now from this diagram, we came to know that one node had the container running.
One node did not have the container running.
So even in the node, which did not have the container running, when we made a request to port 8080,
that request was redirected to the node where the container was running and the response was served.
And this is what the routing mesh is all about.
So that's the high level overview about the routing mesh in Swarm.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Implementing Swarm Routing Mesh ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we discussed about the routing mesh in Swarm.
So in today's video, we will look into how exactly we can go ahead and create it.
Now, for our demo purposes, I have two servers which are created and I have the communication on all
ports which are open between both the servers over here.
Now the first server which has the IP ending with 211 acts as a swarm master node and the other one
acts as a worker node.
So if I do a Docker node LS, you will see that there are two servers.
One is acting as the master, second is acting as a worker.
So now let's go ahead and create a service.
So I'll say Docker service create, I'll give it a name of web server.
Now I'll add a publish where published port that I want to set.
Let's call it as 8080 and the target port would be 80.
I'll say replicas is one and I'll start from Nginx image.
Great.
So our task has been created.
So now if you quickly do a Docker service PS on web server, you see that one container has been created
and it has been created in a worker node.
So the node ends with 207.
So this seems to be the worker node.
So let's verify.
So within the worker node I'll do a Docker.
PS And as expected, there is one container which is up and running in the worker node.
Now, let's quickly do a netstat hyphen here.
So here you see that there is one port which is open and the port is 80, 80.
And even within the worker node, if I do a netstat hyphen, you see the port is published.
So what basically happens here is that if you basically look into the command here, so when you use
the publish flag, it basically publishes the port 8080 in all the nodes which are part of the cluster.
And so let's.
Understand here.
So basically, let's say that if there are three nodes and you have published a port 8080.
So this port, which is published is published across all the nodes.
So all of those nodes are part of the ingress network, which is the default of swarm.
Now, if I do a curl on 127001 on port 8080.
So even if the container is not really running within the node here, the request is directed to the
node where the container is working and this is how the mesh happens.
So that's the high level overview about the routing mesh.
I hope this quick demo Practical has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next
video.

--- DTR - Storage BackEnds ---

Hayden, and welcome back now into this week, you will be discussing about the BTR storage so surveyed
before their doctor domestic registry stores their images on the failed system of the north where you
visit I.
However, this is not the best of these cases, primarily because then you'll have to be with a lot
of issues, including the disk space, getting Fullan others.
So it is always recommended that you configure a centralized storage with all of your images are stored
and this can be a tube of the DEHL, both storage drivers, eight DPA.
So you can configure DPA to make use of the external storage backings that it supports for a blue performance
and high availability.
So this can be better understood with this data.
So let's assume that there are three DPF NY high availability.
So instead of storing the images in the node itself, what you do is you create a shared object storage
and all of the images.
You stored it as part of the shared object storage and whatever replicas of the data node that that
enable bacon died Atelier de France to this shade or store is no good.
Remember that this shared object stories must be highly of elimination.
Now, when you discuss about the supported storage systems under the DPA, they are primarily divided
into two categories.
One is the Lukan and second is the cloud storage provider.
And then locally you have any efforts you have by mom as well as volumes that are available now under
the cloud storage proyas.
Some of the available storage systems are as three.
It is quite popular.
You have a job.
You also have Google Cloud that is also present.
So let's do something.
Let's quickly go and do good demo so that this can be better understood.
So currently I am indeed Dr. TransEnterix history.
Now, if you go to systems, I'm dead.
These stories you see that there are two stories, stapes that are available.
One is the file system.
And second is the glow under glow.
You have a steady a job or been stacked as well as Google Glass.
Now you'll you'll see that I have already configured may be designed to make use of a thief as a storage
system.
And I know that you have to configure various things like that.
The name of your S3 bucket, a fair vote.
I see the name of the bucket as well.
Listed Axis Key and a secret key which acts as a user name and password to go ahead and store the majors
in history.
However, again, depending upon the provider that you make use of.
You have to configure things accordingly.
So this is the cloud one.
Vendors look into the file system one data again and efforts by mom and volume based stories that you
can configure.
Now, as you're discussing that, I had used as three, four hour day more.
So what would happen is the BBA will go ahead and create my Dipple for those under the S3 bucket that
you have specified.
So I have a for that of DOKO.
Then you have a registry that wasn't on the registry.
Should be avoided too.
And then under the blogs you will have a lot of support for those where all of your images and its associated
data will be stored.
So with this, I hope you understood the basics of distorted backbends in DPA.
And also some of the advantages of it.
The cloud storage backend provides no one under these into a storage backings is important.
Specifically, the one of cloud is good performance.
But most important, the high availability, because in S3, all of the data, the higher reliability
by the availability, but their durability part is taken care of by the Adan's itself.
So you do not really have to worry about it.
And this is one of the benefits of using up proper storage backing so that this will conclude today's
view.
I hope this video has been informative and I look forward to seeing the next video.

--- Implementing S3 Storage Backend for DTR ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about various storage backends that are available for
Detr.
So in today's video, we'll look into how we can configure a S3 storage backend from scratch for Detr
Repository.
Now, currently I'm in the cluster and there are no repositories that are available.
So let's go ahead and quickly create a repository here.
The name, let's call it as cloud and we'll go ahead and create it.
Now, within the systems, if you go to storage over here, by default, you will see that the storage
type of file system is used.
Now, this basically means that all the data will be stored in this specific Detr server.
So this is something that is not really needed both from the perspective of high availability and storage.
So what you can do is you can go ahead and select the cloud storage here.
And as expected, there are multiple options that are available for today's video.
We'll be using the Amazon S3 over here.
Now, the first thing that is needed here is the access key and the secret key, which will allow the
Detr to perform operations on the S3 bucket.
So let's go ahead and create the Access secret keys in AWS.
Now, here, do remember that the practical aspect of access, Secret Key and others will not be asked
within the exams.
So this is just for the enhanced knowledge that we are discussing here.
Now from the AWS console, let's go ahead and go to the Iam service.
We'll go to users and let's go ahead and create a new user.
The user name will be Detr.
We'll be giving it a programmatic access.
And let's go ahead and attach certain policies over here.
The policy that we'll be using for today's video would be the S3 Full access.
Let's go ahead and create the user.
Great.
So as soon as you have created you see, you have got the access key ID and the secret key ID.
This is something that you will have to paste it in the Detr.
So the DTA will be using this keys for authenticating against AWS.
The next thing is you have to specify an S3 bucket name.
So now let's quickly go to the S3 service and let's create a new bucket.
The name of the bucket, let's call it as KP Labs Hyphen TR Make sure you use a different name.
The region.
You can leave it to be the North Virginia.
We'll go ahead and do a create.
So as expected, we have the bucket that is available.
So let's go ahead and add the bucket name, which is KP Labs Hyphen TR over here.
The next thing is the region name.
The region in which the bucket is created is US East, which is North Virginia.
So the region code is US East one.
And here you also have to specify the region endpoint.
Now in order to calculate the region endpoint within the documentation, this is basically the syntax
over here.
So they have already given an example.
Let's copy this up.
I'll paste it over here.
We'll modify it according to our use case.
So instead of DynamoDB service, we'll be making use of S3 service and the region is US East one.
So this will be our region endpoint and that's about it.
All you have to do is you have to click on Save.
Great.
So our settings are now saved.
So now let's quickly refresh the storage tab page.
And here you see that the cloud storage of S3 is the default one, and these are the configurations.
So now let's go ahead and try to push the image and see on what happens.
Now, before we do that, let me quickly open up the S3 bucket.
And currently you see that there are no folders and files that are available here.
Now, from the server, let's quickly do a Docker images.
And currently there are certain images that are available.
We'll be making use of the BusyBox image to be pushed to the DDR.
So let's do a Docker tag BusyBox latest followed by example.com slash admin.
And let's quickly confirm the repository name, which is admin slash cloud.
So I'll say admin slash cloud followed by my image once.
Then you can go ahead and do a docker push.
And as expected, the image is being pushed over here.
Great.
So it took a little amount of time for the image to be pushed.
Now, one important part to remember is that you have to make sure that both the S3 bucket is near to
the location where you are pushing the image.
So in my case, since I'm located out of India, but the S3 bucket is in the US region, you can face
certain amount of latency due to which the push and maybe the pull can slow down.
So instead of creating the bucket in the North Virginia region, you could also create it in the appropriate
region which is near to your country.
In my case it can be Mumbai region.
Anyways, so now if you quickly refresh over here, you see automatically a folder of Docker got created
under the folder.
You have registry, under the registry you have the registry version number.
And then if you go a bit down, you will see multiple sub folders where your data will be stored.
Great.
So that's the high level overview about how you can configure the S3 as part of the storage backend
for DDR.
With this, we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - S3 Storage Backend ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- DTR - High Availability ---

Hey, Ryan.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the high availability aspect of DDR.
Now the Docker Trusted Registry is designed to scale horizontally as your usage increases so you can
add more replicas to your DDR to scale to your demand as well as for the high availability.
Now, this can be better explained with this diagram where there are three worker nodes where the UCP
is configured.
Now on all the three worker nodes, you also have the DDR and there is also an overlay network for the
communication between all of the DDR replicas that are configured for high availability setup.
Now also note that all the DDR replicas runs on the same set of services and changes to their configurations
are automatically propagated to other replicas.
So any change in terms of configuration that you do, they are also automatically propagated.
Now one of the very important part to remember here is that in a single DDR based deployment, you can
make use of a local file system to store your Docker images.
However, whenever you have multiple DDR replicas similar to what we see in this specific diagram for
the high availability, you will need to ensure that all replicas are using the same storage backend.
And this is the reason why if you see within this diagram, you have a common object storage where all
the three DDR replicas will be referring to.
So this common object storage can be S3 or it can be Azure and others.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly jump into a demo so that this can be better understood.
So as of now, what we have is we have a single UCP and we also have a single instance that is running.
So what I've done for today's demo is I have also created one more droplet with a similar configuration
of the DDR, and we'll be using this specific droplet to configure as a replica.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly connect to this droplet.
Great.
So I'm connected to this droplet.
What I have done, I have already configured the Docker enterprise edition and I have also added as
part of the UCP worker node.
So if you see within the UCP, there are two worker nodes that are available.
One is the repository that is already configured and second one is this new server will be configuring
the DDR replica.
Now for the DDR repository.
I have already configured the storage to be S3 so this acts as a centralized storage here.
Now in order for us to join a new read replica, the command is very simple.
So all you have to do is you have to run this specific command.
So the instruction that we are giving is join and we are making use of the UCP unsecure.
TLS So let's go ahead and copy this up.
And within the new Read replica, let's go ahead and run this.
So here it will ask you few pointers over here.
First one is the UCP URL, so let me copy the UCP URL.
Next is the UCP username.
The username would be admin and the last one is the UCP password.
So I'll copy this password and I'll paste it.
Great.
So now it is basically asking you to choose a replica to join to.
So we'll just use the default one that are available and that's about it.
So this will take around five minutes.
So let's do one thing.
I'll quickly pause this video post.
It will resume once this is completed.
All right.
So our instance is now joined as a replica as part of the DDR.
And here you will see it also shows you the replica ID and it ends with B, A one now within the Docker
trusted registry.
Let's quickly open this up.
And if I do a hard refresh over here, you immediately see a warning which states that you have two
replicas in your cluster and it basically leads to the quorum related scenario.
So we have already discussed about the quorum in the earlier videos, so I hope you understand what
exactly this means.
So as part of the fault tolerance, you have to ensure that sufficient amount of read replicas are available
so this can be better explained with this table.
So if you have a replica of one fault tolerant, it is zero.
For three, it is one for five, it is two, and for seven it is three.
So I hope you remember the formula, which is n minus one by two for calculating the appropriate quorum.
So there is also one more important thing I wanted to show you.
So initially the DDR was running in the server, which is currently up and running, which starts with
134.
Now, since we have also joined one more replica, you can open DDR in this specific replica IP address
as well.
So let's copy this up.
And when you try to open it up based on new IP.
You see, things are working as expected.
Now, along with this, there is one more important pointer associated with the health check endpoints
that you need to be aware of.
So Detr exposes several endpoints that you can make use of to assess if a replica is healthy or not.
So one of the endpoint is underscore ping.
It basically checks if the replica is healthy and returns a simple Json response.
Now apart from that, you also have the API version meta and cluster status, which returns extensive
information about all the replicas that are part of the cluster.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly look into both of these endpoints.
So currently from the replica, let's quickly find the IP address.
So this is the IP address here.
And let's quickly do a curl on this specific IP, which is 142 93213.1 34 followed by you have to make
use of the endpoint which is underscore ping.
Now as soon as you do that you see you got an output where there is no error and the healthy is true.
So this is one quick way in order for you to monitor things.
Now the second one that we are discussing is related to the cluster level.
So let's replace this and I'll add the appropriate endpoint over here.
As soon as I press enter, you immediately get an error stating that the client is not authenticated.
So in order for you to get the information about this specific endpoint, you will have to first authenticate.
So let's quickly do that.
So let's quickly go ahead and paste the username and password.
So here you are specifying the username and the password through which we can authenticate.
Once, then you see a huge amount of information is something that you can see.
So this allows you to see in detail about the exact details about the replica and a few other configurations.
Great.
So before we conclude, let's discuss about few more important pointers.
First one is to have a high availability on your overall cluster.
Make sure that you always have three dedicated nodes for u.c.p.
For the Ucp's high availability and three dedicated nodes to install for the high availability.
Now, when a replica fails, the number of failures tolerated by a cluster also decreases.
So don't leave that replica offline for too long.
And the last one is that adding too many replicas to your cluster might also lead to a performance degradation
as data needs to be replicated across all the replicas.
So that's the high level overview about the high availability aspect of DDR.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Configuring DTR HA ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Immutable Tags in DTR ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- DTR - Caching ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about the DDR cache at a very high level overview.
Now, before we go ahead and discuss more in detail about the DDR cache, let's quickly look into a
typical challenge post which will understand more about it.
So this diagram is an easy way to understand a challenge.
So on the left hand side, you have the DDR cluster.
So this cluster is running in the US region.
Now within this cluster you have a repository of website slash UI, and within the repository there
are multiple tags that are available associated with the Docker images.
Now let's also assume that the organization has the Asia Office where a lot of users are working now
for the users to pull the images from the DDR they have, they can do a manual docker pull.
However, since there is a great difference between us and Asia in terms of distance, the overall operations
like Docker Pull, Docker push will take a lot of time, so this network can be a huge bottleneck.
So the farther away you are from the geographical location where the DDR is deployed, the longer it
will take for you to pull and push images.
So this primarily happens because the file that are being transferred from the DDR to your machine needs
to travel a longer distance across multiple networks on the line.
So in order to overcome this, one can make use of the DDR cache.
So what happens in the DDR cache is that you have a cache that you configure at the location where you
know that users will be doing a Docker pull and Docker push.
And in the back end you can go ahead and configure the images that are part of your primary cluster
to be cached into the clusters that are configured at the Asia office.
So next time when a user wants to do a Docker pull, the images can be fetched from this cache location
and this will be much more faster.
Now remember that the cache are transparent to users since user still needs to log in to pull the images
making use of the DDR URL address.
So basically what will happen is once the authentication happens, the DDR primary cluster will automatically
redirect to the appropriate cache which is running near them.
Now, depending upon the architecture, you can go ahead and configure the cache location accordingly.
So here you have a primary DDR cluster in US region.
However, you have to DDR cache that are available.
One is in the Asia region and second in the Europe region.
Now at a high level overview, also understand the architecture on how exactly this would look like.
So on the primary data center, you have the DDR that are running now.
They are making use of a shared storage.
So this is basically the US data center.
Now you also have the Asia Data Center where you have configured the DDR cache over here, which will
basically pull the data from upstream.
Now the architecture is very similar to the primary data center.
However, one important part that you need to know is that in the secondary node, which is acting as
a cache, you do not really need a UCP agent here.
This is very important part to remember.
UCP agent is not really required on the server, which is acting as a cache, so that's the high level
overview about DDR caching.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Setting Orchestrator in UCP ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about setting up an orchestrator in UCP.
Now, when it comes to the orchestration, Docker, UCP supports both Docker Swarm as well as Kubernetes.
Now, whenever you add a node to a UCP cluster, the nodes workload are managed by default orchestrator,
so it can be Docker Swarm as well as Kubernetes here.
Now when you install Docker enterprise, new nodes are managed by Docker Swarm, but you can change
this specific default orchestrator to Kubernetes from the administrator settings.
So if you see under the scheduler, there are two options that are available.
One is for Swarm and second is for Kubernetes.
So you can use one among them.
The default one is the Docker swarm.
Now for the nodes that are already joined to the UCP, you can also go ahead and change the current
orchestrator for them.
Now the available orchestrator types are Kubernetes Swarm as well as mixed Mix basically enables workload
to be scheduled by both the Kubernetes and Swarm orchestrator engines within the same node.
Now here also remember that whenever you change the orchestrator type for a node, existing workload
will be evicted and they are not migrated to a new orchestrator automatically.
So this is one important part to remember.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly go to the UCP and understand how exactly this might look like.
Now I'm in the UCP console, so from the admin, if you quickly go to the admin settings and under the
orchestration tab here you see under the scheduler you can make use of either Swarm or Kubernetes,
whichever you intend to do.
So this is one way.
Now you can also set a specific orchestrator at a node level.
So under the shared resource, if you go to nodes currently we have one node available.
Let's open up that worker node.
And if you edit this node under the orchestrator type, you see you have Swarm Kubernetes and mixed
similar to what we were discussing here.
So available orchestrator type Kubernetes swarm and mixed.
So if you have mixed, that basically means that the node can be used both for Swarm as well as for
Kubernetes.
So here also remember that using a mixed orchestrator type is not recommended for production use.
So in case if you are running it in production, make sure to either use Swarm or use Kubernetes.
Never use mix approach over here.
Now apart from that, also remember that we can also change the orchestrator type of a given node from
swarm to Kubernetes via CLI.
So the CLI command looks something similar to this.
So you have Docker node update, you're adding a label which is com Docker, UCP orchestrator.
Kubernetes is equal to true, followed by the given worker node ID and post which the node will be used
for only Kubernetes specific workloads.
So that's the high level overview about the orchestrator type settings in UCP.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Container Security Scanning ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the container security scanning.
In fact, this is one of my favorite features in DDR, or I would say in terms of container security.
This is one of the very important features that you should be implementing within your organization
if you're working into the security or similar role.
Now, Docker containers can have various security vulnerabilities.
Now if you just blindly pull the container and just run it within the production environment, and if
that container has some high level security vulnerabilities which can be exploited, then your website
or whatever web application that you're running, it can be breached and hence it is very important
for you to scan your containers for security vulnerabilities.
Now, DDR allows us to perform the security scan for the containers which you push to the DDR.
Now these scan can be performed in the on push model or even manually.
So let's say that someone is pushing a specific container image to your DDR.
Then the DDR can automatically scan that image for vulnerability.
Or if someone has already pushed it, you can even scan it manually.
So if you look into this image over here, there are two container images here.
One has vulnerabilities, status as clean, and second has the vulnerability status where there are
five critical vulnerability 31 major and 18 minor.
So having the container scanning functionality is extremely important for your organization if you're
implementing containers in your production environments.
So let's quickly have a demo on how exactly this might look like in DDR.
So this is my Docker trusted registry.
And in fact the image that I have added here, this is the one that I had taken from the DDR.
Now if you see over here that there are two images here.
One has the image tag as version one and the second has the image tag of Ubuntu.
Now the version one does not really have any vulnerability and hence it is shown as clean.
Now you also have ubuntu.
Ubuntu is been detected with a lot of vulnerabilities.
Now if you want to see what are the type of vulnerabilities you can click on view details here and it
will show you the layer wise vulnerability associated with the container.
So these are all the vulnerabilities which are associated.
Now if you just click on one of the vulnerabilities here, you will get more information related to
what this vulnerability is.
You can even see what are the layers which are being affected by a specific type of vulnerability.
Now, if you just click on the CVE ID here, you will be redirected to the page, which gives you a
lot of details related to that specific vulnerability which is detected.
So as we were discussing, that, Docker trusted registry basically has two ways in which you can scan
for container vulnerabilities.
So if you go into the security here, you will see that I have enabled scanning over here and basically
you have to make sure that your scanning database is in sync with the online database, whatever it
might be.
So that's the high level overview about container scanning.
Now do remember that the container security scanning is a feature.
It is not a proprietary of Docker trusted registry.
So you can use various other solutions which has the capability for container security scanning.
You don't always have to rely on the DDR, but as far as the certification exam is concerned, your
knowledge about DDR is important.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Configuring Container Scan with DTR ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we had a high level overview about the container security scanning, and
we also had a demo on how exactly a reports, a specific vulnerability within the containers.
So in today's video, we will look into how we can enable the security scanning in DDR.
So I'm in my Docker trusted registry.
So the first thing that you need to do is you have to go to the systems and you need to go to the security
tab.
Now by default, the scanning is disabled so you can go ahead and enable your scanning.
Now here there are two ways in which you can go ahead for the installation and updates.
One is online and second is offline.
So online is the best way you can select the online one so that everything gets synced automatically
and then you can click on Enable Online Sync.
So what this will do is this will go ahead and sync the database with from the online repository.
Now do remember that this part takes little amount of time.
Again, it depends upon the bandwidth of your Internet connection.
So it takes around ten minutes for it to be synced.
So you have to wait there.
Great.
So it has been around ten minutes and our database sync has been completed.
Now do remember that if you are using the image scanning functionality, you cannot really run it in
one GB Ram.
It will become very slow.
So at a minimum you should have at least two GB of Ram.
Specifically if you are playing around with image scanning.
In my case I have a two GB Ram server where I have the DDR present.
So basically I have resized the DDR server from one GB Ram to two GB Ram.
Now the next part that you need to do is you have to push a specific image to a repository.
So in my case the repository is admin server.
So let's go ahead and push some image to this repo.
So I am in my cell.
Let's quickly do a Docker pull on Ubuntu 16.04.
So this is a fairly old image and the amount of vulnerabilities that you will typically find in the
older images would be much more higher.
And this is the reason why I have taken a little older image to see the functionality of the vulnerability
scan anyways.
So our image has been pulled.
So if we can quickly do a Docker images, you would see that we have Ubuntu image which is up and running.
So now let's go ahead and tag this specific image so that we can push it to the DDR.
I'll say example.com, the repo is admin web server and let's call this as my ubuntu image once.
Then let's go ahead and push this specific image to DDR.
Great.
Now from the rear, let's go to the repository.
We'll go to tags.
And within here you will see that there is a my Ubuntu image and within the vulnerabilities column there
is an option for Start scan.
So let's go ahead and click on start to scan.
So now it has gone to pending.
So it takes a little amount of time for the scanning to complete.
Again, the reason why it is a little slow is because our server specs are a little minimum.
It is just two GB ram.
So when you talk about DDR, the minimum that they require is 16 GB of Ram.
So this is the reason why it might take a little amount of time.
But let's quickly pause the video and I'll resume it once the vulnerability scan has been completed.
All right.
So it took around few minutes for the scan to complete.
And once completed, the DTI will show you the list of vulnerabilities which is associated with the
image.
Now, if you click on view details here, it will basically give you by layer.
So it says that at this specific layer, these are the set of vulnerabilities which are currently present.
Now if you go to the component.
So here you can get in detailed information related to the vulnerability along with the vulnerability.
So this is a CVE ID, you have the severity as well as the description.
You can even click on the layer affected and it basically will give you the exact layer where this vulnerability
has been present.
So coming back a little.
So let's go to the repository in our case admin web server.
Now within the repository settings, let's go a bit down.
So here basically in the PowerPoint slide, we had discussed that whatever scanning that can perform
on the images, it can be in the Onpush approach or in the manual approach.
So manual approach is something that we just looked where once the image was committed we manually started
the scan.
However, you can even have the onpush approach.
So if you look in the image scanning here you have the Onpush and in the manual.
So Onpush is basically whenever the images are being pushed to the DDR, the DDR would automatically
scan that specific image.
So this is the better way because you don't really have to worry about manually scanning each and every
image.
And this is the recommended one.
Great.
So once you have selected the Onpush approach, you can basically see here that scan on image push has
been taken.
So let's verify if this actually works or not.
So in our case, now let's do one thing.
Let's pull a BusyBox image.
Great and let's do a Docker images.
We'll tag the BusyBox image.
So I'll say Docker tag BusyBox latest, I'll say Example.com admin web server and I'll say BusyBox here
and once then you can go ahead and push this image to DDR.
So I'll copy this and I'll push it.
Great.
So now within the repository, let's go to the tags.
And this is the image which has been pushed.
Now, if you look into the vulnerabilities, it automatically went to pending.
So now we never had to click on Start scan.
So the DDR will automatically scan the vulnerabilities and it will show you the report about if there
are any existing vulnerabilities or if the image is clean.
So it took around 33 seconds.
And within the vulnerabilities you see, the DDR has stated that this specific image does not have any
vulnerability and it has given it a status of clean.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what the container security scanning is all about.
Now, again, as we have discussed, container security scanning is not a proprietary feature of DDR.
In fact, there are a lot of solutions which are available in market through which you will be able
to scan the container images.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- DTR Webhooks ---

Aaron.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about the webhooks.
Now we can configure the Detr to automatically send a post notification to a webhook URL of your choosing
so this can be better understood with this diagram where you have a Detr and you have a build server
like Jenkins.
So now once you push the image to Detr and maybe once your security scan is completed and at a later
stage, you also want to perform a lot of things like unit test on that specific image.
What you can do is Detr can send a notification to the webhook URL of Jenkins.
So once the Jenkins receives the notification, it can pull the image that was security scanned by the
Detr and then it can go ahead and do various things like unit testing and others.
So that is the basic concept of the Detr webhooks.
Now if you want to look into how exactly it looks like this is a sample output where you have a type.
So the type here is tag push.
You have various details like the repository, the tag, the operating system, the architecture and
so on.
And here also you have the location associated with the image.
So from here itself, once the Jenkins realizes that this specific image name, which has a tag of foo
slash bar colon latest has been security scanned, maybe then the Jenkins can pull this image for further
processing.
So this is the basics of what webhook in Detr does.
So let's quickly have a look into it at a very high level overview.
So currently I'm in the Detr.
Now this specific aspect related to the post event notification can be achieved at a repository level.
So currently we have one repository called as admin slash demo repo.
Now if you click over here within here you see that we have one image that is available and there is
a section of webhooks.
So when you go ahead and create a webhook, there are two important aspects that you have to configure.
One is the type of notification.
So there can be multiple events based on which a notification can be triggered.
So you have tag is pushed to a repository.
Then one of the important one is security scan completed.
So after the security scan of a image is completed, the Detr can inform Jenkins about the image data
and Jenkins can process it further.
And once you have selected one among them, then you also have to specify a webhook URL of whichever
server you want to use for the aspects like unit test and others.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood more about webhooks.
Now for the exam perspective, you need to know on where do you see this webhook option?
You see it under the repository at a high level.
Overview.
Also know what exactly notification is.
You do not really need to remember each one of this, but only the one which is security scan.
So after security scan is completed and unit test needs to be done by a CI CD server, what is the steps
that are needed?
So steps is you go to repository, you go to webhooks, you select the appropriate notification and
you do a webhook URL.
So that's the high level overview.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of UCP Client Bundle ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing about the client bundles.
Now, a client bundle is basically a group of certificates which can be downloaded directly from the
user settings under the Docker.
UCP.
Now, depending upon the permission which is associated with the user, you can use the client bundle
to go ahead and execute the Docker swarm commands from your remote machine that can take effect on the
remote cluster.
So it might happen that you do not always want to login to the UCP to perform certain activities.
Or if there are containers running and you want to fetch certain details, you don't want to go ahead
and manually login or do SSH.
So all of those aspects can be achieved with the help of client bundles.
So if you are familiar with the terminology, so you can say that this is something like a access and
secret key, so that access and secret key you can configure within your laptop and from there you can
run various commands which in turn gets associated with the various AWS APIs.
So let's take an example of what type of commands that you can run.
One example is you can create a new service in UCP from your laptop.
You can even login to a remote container from your laptop without doing any SSH.
So all of these things happens via the API.
So UCP client bundles are extremely important.
Specifically if you are making use of UCP within your production environment.
So let me quickly show you a quick demo about this and we'll look into how exactly this would work in
the upcoming video.
So I'm in my CLI.
So this is basically a simple Docker container which is running on top of my laptop and we'll be using
this to perform certain activities over the remote UCP.
So now this is my UCP console.
So now within Swarm, if we go to the services, there are currently no services which are available,
so let's go ahead and create the service.
However, this time we'll be doing from our laptop.
So now let's do one thing.
I'll say Docker service create, I'll give it a name of my Nginx and I'll specify the Nginx image.
So as soon as I run this command, what exactly happens is that whatever things that are being created,
all of these aspects are being performed at the remote server.
So in our case this service gets created at the UCP level.
So now you see within the UCP console we have our service which automatically got created.
So something similar to what we were discussing.
If you want to perform some remote operations from your laptop over the UCP, you can make use of the
UCP client bundles.
So that's the high level overview about this video.
In the next video, we'll look into how we can download the UCP client bundles and configure our CLI
so that we can go ahead and run some remote commands.
So that's about it for this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Integrating CLI with UCP Client Bundle ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we had a high level overview demo about what client bundles are all about.
So in today's video, we will look into how we can download the UCP client bundle and configure it within
the Linux system.
So I'm in my Docker enterprise now, so UCP client bundles are associated with a user.
So in my case, since I'm logged in via the admin user, I'll go to my profile and within here you have
the option of client bundle.
Now we already have one client bundle which is generated.
Now the reason why this is generated is because we had a demo about the client bundle.
You can go ahead and create a new client bundle by clicking on new client bundle here and generate a
client bundle.
So as soon as you click here, you will see that your client bundle has been downloaded.
So now once the bundle has been downloaded, let's quickly do one thing.
Let's quickly create a new container.
So I'll say Docker container run, I'll give it a name of my ubuntu and I'll launch it from the Ubuntu
image.
Great.
So once the container is up and running, verify with docker ps and you should see that my ubuntu container
is present.
So the next thing is to copy the UCP bundle file and we'll copy it to the my ubuntu under the temp directory.
Great.
So once I've copied it, let's quickly connect to the container or the bash.
Great.
So now let's go to the root directory and I'll create a new directory called as UCP.
And within the UCP I'll copy the bundle which have been downloaded.
Once you have the bundle here, the next part is to unzip this.
Let's quickly verify if Unzip is present, unzip is not present.
So let's quickly do an apt get update and an apt get install unzip.
Great.
So unzip has been downloaded so you can go ahead and unzip the UCP bundle here.
Now, once you unzip it, you will see that there are a lot of files which are present.
One of the important one is the Env message.
So if we quickly do a VI on env search.
All right.
So the VI is not present.
Let me go ahead and install nano.
Great.
So now let's do a Nano on MSH.
So here you will see that this specific file is exporting certain important variables.
One among them is the Docker host.
So Docker host is basically the IP address of the USB because whatever operations that you might be
performing, those operations would be running on top of the UCP.
So it is exporting various variables and you have certain configurations which are being set.
So that's one part.
So the next thing that you need to do is you have to run this.
So in order to do that, I'll just run a simple command.
And once you have done that, you can quickly verify if everything is working.
So you can just echo Docker host and you should be able to see the IP address of your UCP.
Great.
So the next thing that you need to do is you have to quickly download Docker because we will be using
the Docker commands to perform certain operations.
So the next part that we need to do is we have to install the Docker.
So I'll basically make use of the Curl script here, which can go ahead and install the relevant Docker
packages.
Great.
So once the Docker has been installed, you can just run the Docker command to verify.
Now within this specific directory I hope you have executed env SS because this is very important.
Now the next thing is to do Docker info command.
Now within the Docker info command you will see that it is saying that the product license quantity
is ten nodes and the expiration date is this.
So that basically means that this is taking the enterprise edition.
So whatever command that you are executing here, these commands are basically associated with the node.
And if you go a bit up here, you will see that it is showing you the docker, it is showing you the
IP address of the UCP.
It also shows you the memory which is associated with the UCP server.
In our case, currently it is four GB Ram and along with that it also gives you information related
to the nodes which are associated with the UCP and also the Ram and the CPU which is associated with
those worker nodes.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's create a service.
I'll call it the name as my demo service and we'll make use of the Nginx image here.
So now whatever service that you will be creating here, this service would in turn be created at the
user level.
So if you quickly want to verify, if you go to the services here, you will see that you have a service
called as my demo service.
So this is the my demo service which is created and this has been from the Nginx image.
So this client bundle really helps in order for you to do a lot of automation or if you want to perform
certain tasks or if you want to fetch details related to nodes related to containers, etcetera, then
the UCB bundle really helps.
So that's about it, about the UCB client bundles.
I hope at a high level overview you understood what this UCB client bundle is all about.
So with this we'll conclude this video and I hope this video has been informative for you and I look
forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - UCP Client Bundle Integration ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Note - LDAP Video ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of LDAP ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back to the Knowledge Portal Video series.
So in the previous lecture we spoke about delegation and how a user from one account can do a assume
role to the second account.
So that is what delegation was all about.
Today we will look into very similar concept called as Federation.
Again, this is a very, very important concept and federation is generally used in most of the enterprises
based companies.
So let's understand what Federation is with a very simple use case.
So let's assume that there are 500 users within an organization and your organization are using three
services.
So one, you have Jenkins.
Jenkins is generally used for CI CD.
Second is AWS and the third is HR management system.
Now as a solutions architect and a system administrator, you have been assigned a role to give users
access to all of these three services.
So now the question is there are 500 users and you need to give access for the 500 users to all of these
three services.
So how will you go ahead and approach this particular use case?
Now, one very simple way of doing is you add 500 users first in Jenkins, then you add 500 users in
AWS via Iam, and then you add 500 users in HR management system.
So this is one way.
Now the problem with this kind of approach is that let's assume that tomorrow ten more users join in.
So what you have to do is you have to add ten users here in Jenkins then and then in HR management,
which is very clumsy.
It takes a lot of time and it is not an ideal way of doing this.
So this is again a hard work.
And for lazy people out there like me, this is not a very ideal approach.
So what we can do over here is we can have a central directory.
So here we have a Ldap in Ldap.
All the users will be stored.
So administrator has to store the user only in Ldap.
Once the users are stored in Ldap, depending upon what are the federated settings that you have done,
user will be able to log in to Jenkins and HR Management system directly.
So no need to create user in Jenkins or or HR management system.
Just create a user in Ldap, establish a trust relationship between Ldap and all three services and
then user will be able to seamlessly connect to all of these three services.
And if you see, it becomes very simple.
So now let's say that tomorrow ten users come to your organization.
All you have to do is you have to add all of those users in the Ldap directory and it will do the job
for you.
So this is a very simple way and most efficient way of doing this, because generally if you look into
a critical organization like organization who are following Pci-dss standards, you need to immediately
revoke the access once they leave the organization, like once they are either resigned or terminated.
So again, you going to each and every service and disabling the account will take time.
Instead of that, if you are using Ldap, all you have to do is just disable the user in the Ldap and
that user will not be able to log in anywhere.
So again, very simple and efficient for using and this is one of the reasons why most of the enterprises
they use Ldap or something similar.
So there are various solutions which can be used for storing central users like Microsoft Active Directory
is something which is very famous in most of the organization.
And as far as Linux is concerned, you have Red Hat Identity management or Free IPA, which does the
similar things.
So let me do one thing.
Let me actually show you the demo of Free IPA on how exactly it looks like.
So I am logged in over here.
This, this is a free IPA and if you see there are a lot of users which are present over here.
So if you go to the different screen, let me actually I think it got logged out.
Let me log in once.
So generally you all you have to do is you have to store the user in this identity store and then you
do a federation from here to your AWS.
So we have a lot of users which are present over here.
You can do something like within the user group, you can create a user group called as Production.
So this is very similar to what we did in the delegation.
So let's create a user group called as Production.
And once you create a user group production, you add the users within this particular group.
So let me just add some random users.
Ldap user five, Ldap user nine and manager, I'll add over here.
Okay, So these are the three users which are created now in the site.
You can create a role which does the federation and you can establish a trust relationship like only
the users which are present within the production group can log in to the production role which is present
within your account.
So this is one of the basic on how you can go ahead with Federation.
So this is a very small chapter about federation.
We will go ahead and understand Federation in great detail in the upcoming lecture.
So I hope this has been useful for you.
And again, if you have any doubts, feel free to connect at instructors, at labs or connect to us
on social media.
Thanks for watching.

--- Integrating LDAP with UCP ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we discussed about the need of Ldap.
So with this, we understood that if all the users are being stored centrally in the Ldap, then the
applications, whatever applications that you might be running, they can be integrated with the Ldap
server so that the users who are already stored, they can directly log in to the applications within
your organization without having to create individual users in each of the application.
So let's say that there are 100 developers which are created in Ldap, so all of those 100 developers
needs the access to the UCP.
Now you don't want to really go ahead and create hundreds of users here.
So instead of that, you can integrate the universal control plane with Ldap and then the users from
Ldap will be able to log in to the UCP depending upon the permissions that you assign.
Now, in order to integrate your universal control plane with Ldap, you need to go to admin and go
to the admin settings.
Now within here there is a tab of authentication and authorization.
So here you will see that you have Ldap enabled and you have Saml enabled.
In fact, Saml Enable is a pretty new service and this is amazing because many times a lot of organizations
they make use of single sign on.
With a providers like Okta, you have one login jumpcloud, etcetera.
So in such cases you can use the Saml and you have to put basically the identity provider metadata URL.
So again, Saml works in a similar way where all the users are stored in a central directory from which
they'll be able to have a single sign on to the UCP.
Now in case of Ldap, if you want to integrate with Ldap, you can just select the Ldap enabled As Yes,
and then you have to specify the Ldap server URL, the reader as well as the reader password.
Now, along with that, you can also test whether your Ldap has been working or not, so you can put
a sample username for Ldap and you can go ahead and test it.
You can also perform the sync.
Now sync is important because the users can be synced at a regular interval and you can go ahead and
sync it at a regular interval.
So for the exam perspective, you will not be asked on how exactly you can go ahead and integrate your
UCP with Ldap.
Because when you talk about Ldap, it requires an entirely new course.
It requires a dedicated course.
If you want to understand about Ldap, hopefully at a later stage we will have a course coming up on
Ldap.
But anyways, in a short video specifically for the UCP, our understanding on how exactly you can integrate
is not required for the certification.
Just remember that you can integrate your UCP with Ldap as well as with the Saml, and that can be achieved
from the admin settings under the authentication and authorization tab.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Linux Namespaces ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about Linux namespaces.
Now Docker extensively makes use of the Linux namespaces and hence at a high level overview, It is
important for us to understand what Linux namespaces are and how Docker makes use of those namespaces.
Now, a Docker uses a technology called as namespace to provide the isolated workspace called as the
container.
Now the namespace provides a layer of isolation and each aspect of the container runs in a separate
namespace.
So let's understand this.
So let's say you have two namespaces which are available over here and this namespace has a different
components which are available.
So in this namespace you have a separate component and a component in the namespace B also you have
a separate PID and a separate component.
Now at this stage it becomes a little confusing.
So let's quickly go to the practical and understand what this is.
So I'm in my CLI.
Let's quickly do one thing.
Let's quickly create a new container.
I'll say Docker container run, let's call it as my BusyBox.
I'll start it from the BusyBox image.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker PS, you should see that we have one container which is up and running.
Now from the host, if I do a PS hyphen f, you will see that there are a lot of processes which are
running over here.
Now within the host, the first process would typically be the systemd.
So in the previous version it is the init subsystem which runs as the PID one.
All right.
So these are the amount of processes which are running.
Now when you do a Docker, PS, let's quickly connect to the container.
It seems I gave the name of my burst box.
Anyways, so currently I am connected to the container and from the container if I do a hyphen f command
you will see that it is only showing you three processes.
And that too there is a process id of one and you have the SSH command which is running.
So now the question is how come the container is not able to see the processes which are running in
the host?
How come the container is not able to see that?
And that is precisely what the namespace does.
Now if you basically look here, let's quickly log into the container yet again.
So if you look over here within the container, the command is running as a PID one.
So this mapping is inside the container only.
However, if you do PS hyphen F here, you will see that outside of the container it is running with
a different PID altogether.
Now it cannot really have a PID of one in the host.
So all of those isolation that happens behind the scenes is the feature of Linux namespaces.
Now this is what Linux namespace is.
Now there are various other components to the Linux namespace.
Now the component that we are discussing here is the PID.
So Linux namespace also has various other components like UTS, like IPC and various others.
So PID.
I hope at a high level overview you understood on what this is all about.
So it basically allows you to have a separation in terms of process so that the containers or whatever
container which is running here, it cannot really see any other processes which are running within
the same operating system.
So by any chance, if this specific container has to be breached, so let's say this container is hacked,
so attacker will not be able to connect or not be able to know the wider picture on what exactly is
running.
So let's come out of this and let's type one command.
I'll say Unshare, say Mount Proc and I'll call it as bin Bash.
Now, again, in order to have a namespace, you don't really need a docker.
So Docker makes use of the feature of namespace which is available in the Linux environment.
So let's do it with Unshare.
So when I did a Unshare, so we are giving a P, so P is basically the PID component of the namespace
which the Linux provides.
So again, within here, if I do a PS hyphen f you will see that you only have two processes which are
being listed over here.
So this is also a namespace kind of a environment.
So this is not something specific to Docker.
This is a Linux feature which the Docker makes use of.
Now let's take one more example.
So within here I have a host name which is Docker hyphen demo.
So you also have a namespace of UTS which basically allows you to set hostname as well.
So I can say uncheck, let's say hyphen UTS and we'll say bin bash.
All right, so as expected, within this namespace you have a Docker hyphen demo, however you can change
the host name over here.
I can say it as my namespace.
All right, so whatever host name that you have added inside a specific namespace is associated with
only that namespace.
It is not associated with the underlying host.
All right.
So now from the host, if I do a host name, you will see the host name still remains to be Docker hyphen
demo.
Same goes when you connect to the container.
And if you type a host name, you see the container has a different host name.
However, when you come out of the container and you see the host name over here, the underlying host
has a different host name altogether.
So if you are running ten containers, ten containers can have its own host name.
Ten containers will have its own namespace in terms of process.
In terms of.
Network in terms of et cetera.
So speaking about namespaces which are available in Linux, as of now, there are six different types
of namespace which are available.
One is the IPC, which is the Inter-process communication.
Second is the PID, third is the net, which is the network, fourth is the user ID, fifth is mount
and sixth is UTS.
So at a high level overview, you understood what PID does as well as what UTS does.
Now, as far as the certification is concerned, it is not really required to go in depth about each
one of them, but you should be knowing that Docker makes use of namespaces and at a high level overview
what namespaces are and how exactly they might work at a very high level overview.
So that's about it for today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Control Groups (cgroups) ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the control groups.
Now, control groups, which are also referred as the C groups, is a Linux kernel feature that limits
accounts for and isolates the resource usage like CPU, memory disk, IO network, etcetera for a collection
of processes which are running within the Linux system.
So this can be better understood with a diagram here.
So let's say you have a Docker host and within the Docker host you have two containers which are running.
You have container A and you have container B.
Now this specific Docker host has one core CPU and it has one GB of Ram.
Now both the containers which are running over here, you see they are green, so they are running perfectly
and everyone is happy over here.
Now the problem that happens is let's assume that container a suddenly started to take huge amount of
resources.
It might be due to some kind of a denial of service attack or some kind of a poor implementation of
the application which is running inside the container.
Due to some reason, the container A has suddenly started to take huge amount of CPU as well as Ram.
So now what happens here is that the other containers will not really get appropriate amount of CPU
and Ram and so go with the processes which are running on the Docker.
Host So this is little dangerous and this is the reason why it is very important that we control the
amount of CPU, we control the amount of Ram that we assign to the container so that even though the
container acts rogue or even though the container is attacked, it cannot really take more amount of
CPU or more amount of Ram then what we have assigned to it now.
Do remember that control groups by itself is a Linux kernel feature.
Now this is very similar to the Linux namespaces, so Docker makes use of control groups to control
or to limit the ram and CPU that can be assigned.
Now control group can not only limit by Ram and CPU, it can do a lot like disk IO network etcetera.
However, Docker does not support each and every implementation of what control group support, so the
primary ones are the CPU and memory.
So let's go ahead and look into how we can achieve this.
So I'm in my Docker.
Host Let's quickly do a docker.
PS Currently there are no containers which are running, so if we quickly do a Docker run hyphen hyphen
help, let's go a bit down.
You will see that there is a option for memory and we can specify the memory limit over here.
So this is one of the options which if you specify the container, will have the limited memory based
on whatever limit that you might want to specify.
So let's try this out.
So I'll quickly do a Docker container run, let's call it as my memory.
Now I'll specify hyphen M and you can specify how much memory that you want to allocate.
So in my case I'll put 256 M and I'll start it from the BusyBox container.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS, you will see that we have one container which has been
created.
So let's do one thing before we go inside the container.
Let's look into the amount of memory which the Docker host has.
So it has the memory of one GB.
So currently the total is 991 MB.
Great.
So now let's do a Docker PS and let's connect to the Docker container.
All right.
Now, within the container, if you do a three hyphen m, you will be able to see the exact same contents
over here, which is 991 MB.
Now, this is a problem.
The problem is because although the containers memory here it is with the help of free hyphen M or even
if you do a top.
So even with top or free hyphen M you will be able to see the memory as one.
GB So this one GB is not true because the container has the maximum limit of 256 MB.
So if there is a application which is running inside the container and let's say that the application
detects that this container has one GB of Ram, then maybe it might try to create a lot of other child
processes to work more efficiently.
However, in reality this container has a memory limit of only 256 MB of Ram.
So if you make use of this conventional tools, it will create a problem.
Now basically this tools gets the information from the Proc meminfo.
So this is where the tools like top or free basically they get the information from.
Now the problem is these tools that were designed, they were designed way before Cgroups was really
implemented in Linux.
So they are also referred as the tools which are not really cgroup aware.
And this is the reason why the content that they'll show will not always be accurate as far as the cgroup
is concerned.
So the ideal way you can do a quick cat on sysfs cgroup you can go to memory and here there are a lot
of options.
Let's look into the memory limit over here so this can give us a proper output.
So if you do a memory limit in bytes, so this will show you in bytes and you see it is basically showing
you 256 MB of Ram.
So this is basically in bytes and this is the reason why you are getting a long output.
So this type of architecture is the right way because if you do not basically fetch the contents from
the cgroup and memory limit in bytes, you will not get a very accurate information.
This is very important part to remember.
So let's go back to the host and let's do a Docker run hyphen hyphen help.
And if you go a bit up and here you will see that there are even for CPU, there are a lot of options
which are available.
So you have CPU period end which limits the CPU and there are various other.
So maybe you can go ahead and explore these.
But at a high level overview, I hope you understood what the Linux control groups are all about and
how we can limit the amount of memory that we can assign to a specific container.
Along with that, I also hope you understood the limitations of tools like Free that they are not a
control group and the amount of reading that they might give you is not the accurate one.
So that's about it for this specific video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Limiting CPUs for Containers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Document - CPU Limit Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Reservation vs Limits ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will be discussing about the resource limitation factors in Docker containers.
And meanwhile, we'll also discuss about the difference between reservation versus limit.
Now, by default, a container has no resource constraint and it can use as much resource that is available
within a specific host.
Now generally this can lead to a problem because many times what happens is that within production environment
you have multiple containers which are running in a single host.
And if one container due to some reason is taking a huge amount of Ram or it is taking a huge amount
of CPU, that means that the other containers which might belong to a different application will not
have a good amount of CPU and Ram due to which it will function slowly.
So this is the reason why it is important to not allow container to consume too much amount of memory
as well as CPU.
Now on a linux host, if a kernel detects that there is not enough amount of memory which is available
to perform certain amount of critical functions, then it will throw an OAM which is also referred as
out of memory exception and then kernel will automatically start to kill the process, which is taking
a good amount of memory because for example, let's say that you have one GB of Ram for your server
and you have one application which is taking a huge amount of Ram.
Now kernel does not really have good amount of Ram which is required to have the operating system to
be running efficiently.
So now what it will do is kernel will throw an out of memory exception and it will kill or it will start
to kill the processes which are taking a good amount of memory.
And once the process is killed then you will see that there is an exception within the log files.
Now in terms of resource limitation, there are two pointers that you need to remember.
One is the reservation and second is the limit.
Now limit imposes an upper limit to the amount of memory that can potentially be used by a Docker container.
Now reservation, on the other hand, is less rigid.
So if you are aware about the Linux terminology, limit is like a hard limit and reservation is a soft
limit.
We'll be discussing about this in practical as well.
So basically whenever the system is running low on memory and there is a contention, so reservation
tries to bring the container's memory consumption at or below the reservation limit, which has been
set.
So let's go ahead and understand both of these things practically.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly do a Docker container run hyphen hyphen, help.
Now let's go a bit up and here you see there are two important options over here.
One is the memory limit.
So if you look into the description, you have the memory limit over here and second is the memory soft
limit.
Now if you associate memory soft limit, it is associated with the memory reservation over here.
And memory limit is not associated with anything, it's just associated with hyphen.
M So let's do one thing.
Let's try with memory Reservation over here.
So let's do a Docker container run, let's give it a name as container zero one and I'll say memory
hyphen reservation, and let's put it to 250 MB All right.
And I'll launch it from the BusyBox container with the shell of SS.
All right, So now if you do a Docker, PS, you have one container which is created.
So basically if I can quickly do a free hyphen.
M This specific server where we are running this command has a total of one GB of memory.
So now let's run the same command multiple times.
Let's do a container zero two as well.
I'll do a container zero three.
Let's do a container zero four and also container zero five.
So basically, we have spawned five containers and each container has a memory reservation of 250 MB.
So now if you do a Docker PS here you have five containers.
Each has a soft limit of 250 MB.
Now do remember that this is a soft limit, so container can go above that as well.
So let's say that this is a container zero one which has a soft limit of 250 MB.
So it is not necessary that application within the container zero one will be restricted to 250 MB.
It can go beyond that as well.
So this 250 MB is a soft limit.
It is not a hard limit.
So when it comes to hard limit.
So let's say you have set up a hard limit of 500 MB.
So in terms of hard limit container cannot go above 500 MB.
So that is the hard limit.
It cannot go above that.
Now in terms of soft limit, container can go above soft limit as well.
So that's the difference between a hard limit and the soft limit.
Now you can specify the hard limit as well with the hyphen M option.
So when you do a hyphen M option, you can say 500 M Oops, let's change the container name here.
Alright, so now if you do a Docker PS here you see you have a container.
Zero six.
Now this container zero six has a hard limit of 500 MB and it has a soft limit of 250 MB.
So that basically means that container cannot go beyond 500 MB of limit.
Now, in case if there is a contention which is happening due to low amount of memory within the system,
then the reservation tries to bring the container's memory consumption at or below the reservation limit.
So let's say that we have a reservation limit of 250 MB and there is a contention of memory which is
happening within the system.
Then Docker will try to bring the container's memory consumption within the reservation limit.
So that's the high level overview about the reservation versus limit.
I hope you understood the difference between both of them.
Reservation is a soft limit container can go beyond the reservation as well.
The limit is a hard limit.
Once you have set the limit, container cannot go beyond what you had set with the limit value.
So that's the high level overview about the reservation and limit.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Swarm MTLS ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the Swarm Mutual.
TLS also referred as the TLS.
Now the nodes, which are part of a swarm, makes use of the mutual transport layer security, also
referred as the TLS to authenticate, authorize and encrypt the communications with the other nodes
which are part of the swarm.
Now, by default, whenever you initialize a swarm, the node in which you initialize the swarm becomes
the manager node, and the manager node generates a new root certificate authority along with a key
pair, which is used to secure the communication with the other nodes which joins the swarm.
Now we'll look into what exactly this is in a moment, but do remember that you can also explicitly
generate your own root key with the help of hyphen hyphen external key flag.
Now to summarize the things that we were discussing.
So each time a node joins the swarm, the manager issues a certificate to that node.
So if you see over here, let's take an example of the manager node and the worker node.
So manager node, basically when you initialize a swarm, there is a root certificate authority.
Now if you see the worker node also has a TLS certificate here.
So the communication that happens between the manager node and the worker node and the communication
that happens between the manager node and the manager node is completely encrypted.
So this is quite useful because if a attacker is trying to see the traffic over here, he will not be
able to do that.
And that is possible with the help of mutual.
TLS So before we proceed further, let me actually show you on what exactly this is and where can you
find the root certificate authority?
So I'm in my CLI and if I can quickly do a Docker node.
LS So basically I only have one node as part of the swarm.
So basically I had done something like Docker swarm in it.
I am sure that you already know on what exactly this does, so once you do a Docker swarm in it, the
node in which you do this command automatically becomes the manager node.
So this is the current manager node.
And as we were discussing by default, if you look into the second point, by default, the manager
node generates a new root certificate authority along with the key pair which are used for secure communications.
So now if you go to var lib Docker and if you go to Swarm, you have a directory called as certificates.
Now within the certificates you see, you have a swarm root, CA certificate and also the swarm node
key.
So this is the certificate which gets created automatically.
However, you can also let's say you do not want to use the default certificates, you want to use your
own certificates.
So you can also do that with the help of hyphen hyphen external CA flag.
Now let's understand more about the token process.
So the manager node we already know, like whenever we initialize the swarm manager node generates two
tokens.
One is for the worker nodes and second is for the manager nodes.
So this can be easily explained with this diagram.
So let's say that this is a manager node.
Now whenever you initialize a swarm, there are two types of tokens which are generated.
One token is for the other manager node to join the cluster and second token is specifically for the
worker node.
So there are two different tokens which are generated now.
Each token includes the digest of the root certificate authority and a randomly generated secret.
This is very important part to remember.
Now to complement this point, whenever a node joins the swarm, the joining node uses the digest to
validate the root CA certificate from the remote manager.
This is important and we'll just look about this in detail in terms of practical in a moment.
So do remember that whatever token that gets generated, whatever worker token that gets generated,
that worker token basically contains the digest is something like a hash of the root.
CA So that basically means that if the root CA changes, let's say there is a attacker and he has modified
this root in the manager, then the digest also changes.
And then if you try to make use of that worker token, it does not work.
We'll just look into that.
So let's look into the rotating the.
It as well.
So basically we can make use of the command Docker swarm k hyphen hyphen rotate to generate a new CA
certificate.
And the key now this can happen because if sometimes if you think that your certificate has been compromised,
you can easily rotate your certificate.
Now do remember that since if you we already discussed here that each token includes the digest of the
root CA and if the certificate changes, then the joint tokens also changes accordingly.
So let's say you have rotated your certificates in the manager node, then you will not be able to make
use of the joint tokens as well.
In the longer term, you will have to make use of the newer joint tokens.
Now one of the question that comes is do I have to update the joint tokens of the existing worker nodes?
And the answer is no, because whenever you run this command, whatever new certificate that is generated,
it is a cross signed certificate which is signed from the previous root.
CA So it's something like let's assume that your you think that your previous root C has been compromised.
So what you do, you quickly do a Docker swarm, CA hyphen hyphen, rotate command so this will go ahead
and rotate a new certificate.
So the new root that gets generated, it is signed from the certificate which was previously rotated
and this signed certificate will only be trusted till the time the worker node also rotates the certificate.
Once the worker node rotates their own certificate, then the swarm will remove the older CA certificate.
Now, again, I'm sure that this is sounding a little confusing, so let's jump into practical so that
we start to understand on what this points really mean.
So let's do one thing.
So currently let's do a Docker swarm, join token worker.
So this will basically give you the worker token.
So let me copy this token and I'll run it in a separate node that I have.
So this is a worker node.
Let me run this command here.
And as expected, it states that this node has joined a swarm as a worker.
Now if you want to verify, you can do a Docker node.
LS And you should see that there is one worker node which is created Now we were discussing that the
worker node will also have its TLS, so let's look into where exactly this gets stored.
So within the worker node, if you go to var lib Docker and you will go to swarm and if you see over
here within the certificates directory, you have the node certificate and the node key.
So these are quite important.
And because of these, the encryption happens.
Now here in the second point we were discussing that each token includes the digest of the root CA certificate
and a randomly generated secret.
So basically, whatever join token that you run in the worker node, it has the digest of the certificate
authority.
So if a certificate authority has been changed, if there are any modification that has happened to
the CA, then the join token will not work.
And this is very important because the worker node can verify with the help of join token that whatever
certificate authority which was present while a token was generated that has not been modified.
So let's try that out.
So what we'll do is we'll change the certificate authority in the manager node and then we'll verify
whether the join token works or not.
So in order to do that, I'll just comment out this command, which we had used to join the node.
So we'll run this command again, but after the certificate has been rotated, so I'll do a Docker swarm
leave.
So this node has left the swarm and if you do an LS, you see there are no certificates.
All the certificates have been removed.
So now let's come to the manager node and let's rotate our certificate.
So it is docker swarm k hyphen hyphen rotate.
Now before you do that, you will also have to remove the node.
So currently if you see the worker node, the status is down here.
So you can just do docker node remove.
I'll say Worker zero one.
All right.
So now if you do a Docker node ls, you will see the worker node has been removed.
So let's run the earlier command.
Great.
So now our certificate has been rotated.
Now, once the certificate is rotated, let's try to run the same Docker swarm, join command and see
whether it accepts or not.
And you see, it basically gave you an error saying that error response from Daemon remote certificate
authority does not match the fingerprint and it is also showing you what is the expected fingerprint.
Now, as we have discussed, whatever digest is part of the join token, it is associated with the specific
certificate authority.
So coming back to the diagram, so whatever join token that you might add to a node, it is associated
with a specific key.
If the certificate authority changes, then you will also need to update whatever join token that you
might have.
So let's do one thing.
Let's get the latest join token.
So I'll say Docker swarm join token for worker.
So this is the updated join token.
I'll copy this up and I'll paste it.
So if you look into the join token earlier, join token was five zero.
Now it changed to one UV and once you run this it was able to successfully join Swarm as a worker node.
So with this I hope you got a glimpse on how the join token is associated with a specific certificate
authority.
Now, we also looked into how we can rotate the certificate authority file.
Now the question that comes is let's say that you rotate the car.
Now what happens to the existing nodes?
Now, in case the certificate authority has been rotated, then the TLS certificates of all the worker
nodes and all the other nodes are also changed.
Let's look into that as well.
So from the worker node, you will see that there are three files.
Now, these are the two important files here.
This is the node certificate and the swarm node key.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's quickly do a MD5 sum on swarm node dot file.
All right.
So this is the digest here.
So this digest basically means that if there is any modification that might happen to this specific
node, then the digest value would change.
Let's also take the digest of the swarm node key, and the digest of Swarm Node key is 1068.
All right.
So we'll just keep it as of now.
Now.
From the manager node.
Let's go ahead and rotate the certificate.
So now if you see, it also rotates in.
So there are in total of two nodes.
If you quickly do a Docker node LS there are in total of two nodes and if you see it rotated the TLS
certificate in both the nodes, it rotated the certificates in both the nodes.
Now if you want to verify, let's go back to the worker node.
Let's run the same command.
So MD5 sum on swarm node certificate.
And if you look into this value, you have nine five, three.
And if you look into the previous value, which is BDC, so it is different.
So that means that this file has been changed.
You can also verify the node key.
So the value here is F40 and the value earlier was 106.
So basically whenever you rotate the certificate, the swarm will also rotate all the relevant certificates
which are part of the other worker nodes.
So I hope at a high level overview you started to understand on what exactly this would mean.
So last but not the least, there are some important points that you should remember.
First is that by default, each node in swarm renews its certificate every three months.
However, you can configure this interval by running the Docker Swarm update and cert expiry so you
can define your own custom time.
So let's say compliance is that the certificate should be rotated every one month.
So then you can run this command to do that.
And as discussed that in the event where the cluster key key or the manager node is compromised, you
can rotate the swarm root so that none of the node trust certificates signed by the old root CA is working
anymore.
So that's about it for today's video.
Again, we did not go into too much detail related to the certificate part because then it would be
out of syllabus.
And when you want to understand PKI, in fact, PKI is a dedicated course altogether.
It is so much in depth anyways.
We have that in plans.
Hopefully that also we can cover in the upcoming year, but PKI is extremely interesting field and this
is something that as a DevOps or if you're working specifically in security, you should have a very
firm understanding about the CA, PKI and the overall certificate management.
So that's the high level overview about the mutual TLS.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Managing Secrets in Docker Swarm ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will discuss about managing secrets in Docker Swarm.
Now, Docker secrets basically allows us to centrally manage the secret data and to also securely transmit
those secrets to only the containers that needs access to it.
Now, centrally storing the secrets can be achieved with the help of a lot of solutions, which includes
Hashicorp Vault, it includes secrets, manager, parameter store, etcetera.
However, one great thing about the Docker secrets is that you can transmit that secret only to the
specific containers which are needed now.
Secrets are encrypted during the transit as well as at rest in the Docker swarm.
Now do remember that a given secret is only accessible to those services which have been granted explicit
access to it, and only while those service tasks are running.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly jump into practicals and understand on how this might work.
So I'm in my CLI and if we quickly do a docker swarm init here.
So let's quickly initialize our swarm cluster and I'll put it the public IP address of my server.
Great.
So now if you can quickly do a Docker secret.
LS You see, currently there are no secrets which are available.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create a new secret.
Now, in order to do that, you need to have a file.
Or you can also pass the secret from the command line.
But I have a file called as db underscore dot txt and if you quickly open up this file, it basically
contains a random username and a random password.
So let's say that whatever containers that would be started, the applications inside those container
would need to connect to the database and you have to give the username and password of the database
to that application.
Now Hardcoding those database credentials is not the best approach.
So in this case you can make use of the secrets feature.
So in order to create a secret, you can just say Docker secret, create, just give the name, I'll
say DB secrets and pass on the file name where your secrets are stored.
All right, so now if you do a Docker secret ls, you should see that there is one secret which is created.
Now do remember that this secret that is being created, it is completely encrypted.
And if you do something like Docker secret inspect on DB secrets, you will not get the secret out of
this specific inspect command.
Now the next thing is on how we can allow the containers which are running in a specific service to
access those secrets.
So let's try it out.
So I quickly do a Docker service create.
Let's give the name as web server and then you have to specify the secret here.
So within the secret, you have to give the name of the secret which has been created.
In our case, the name is secret.
So you can say the secret name is DB creds and we want to launch this from the Nginx image.
So let me remove the comment here, which is at the start.
Great.
So the task has been created now since we only have one node here.
So if you do a Docker node LS.
So here we only have one node which is the leader node, and hence the container would be created here.
So if you do a Docker PS, you should be able to see that this is the container now while creating a
service because this specific container is associated with a service.
So since the service is associated with the secret, all the containers which are created within that
specific service will have access to the secret.
So let's find it out on where can we do that.
So I'll say Docker container exec let's give the container ID and I'll do a bash.
So the secrets are typically in the run directory.
So run is basically a temporary file system.
So you have all of these data in the temporary basis in memory.
This is not permanently stored.
So now if you go into the secrets directory here, you will see that there is a file called as DB creds.
And if you open this up you should be able to see the username and password.
So this is how you can pass the secret only for a specific containers within a service.
So that's the high level overview about making use of secrets in Docker Swarm.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Docker Content Trust ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will be discussing at a very high level overview about the Docker Content
trust.
Now, when we are downloading the images from network or from the Internet, the integrity becomes a
true concern.
So let's say that there is a registry over the internet and you are trying to download a image from
that specific registry.
Now if there is a middleman who is sitting in between and he has modified the image, then the integrity
changes.
Let's say if he has added some kind of a malicious thing within the image, then if you are running
that image in production, it will hamper your security and hence integrity becomes a true concern.
Whenever you are downloading a image from the network.
Now, the Docker Content Trust gives us the ability to verify both the integrity and the publisher.
Of all the data received from the registry over any channel.
Now, this specific use case can be achieved with the help of digital signatures.
So this is very similar.
If you are aware about how the public key infrastructure works.
This is quite similar to that.
Let me in fact quickly show you.
So currently this is a Docker trusted registry.
Now at the top of the browser, you see it gives a warning here which says that it is not secure.
So the reason why it is not secure is because the certificate with which it is signed, it is not really
trusted by the browser.
So let me in fact show you this.
If I enter this, you see it basically gives you an error saying that this site is not secure.
Basically, it says that there can be a man in the middle attack due to which the contents of the site
can be modified.
Now, this is very similar because this certificate is not trusted.
The website can be modified, your credentials can be leaked.
Similarly, even in Docker, if you are downloading a image and the certificate is not really trusted,
then the integrity can be the issue.
So what really happens is that let's say in a repository there can be multiple tags.
So what you can do is you can sign a specific image tag.
So here you see the latest image tag is signed.
The tag with 1.0 is signed.
However, in the second repository, although the test tag is signed, the production tag is not signed.
So with Docker content trust, what you can say is any tag which is not signed or which is not trusted,
you cannot download that specific image.
Only the tag which is signed can be downloaded.
Now, in case, if you are wondering like how does the browser know whether this is secure or not?
Now, this is because that there is a certain list of certificate authority certificates which are present.
So if I go to settings over here, let me go to advance.
And within the manage certificates, if you look into the trusted root CA, you will see that there
are a lot of root CA which are trusted over here.
Now any website which is signed with these list of trusted CA will not really get this specific error.
Now only the websites which are not signed with the trusted root CA or if you have any custom CA which
you have configured within your browser, then those websites which are not signed with them will get
this specific warning or a specific error.
Now same goes with the signed image.
Any image which are signed will get downloaded perfectly.
Any images which are not signed.
If Docker content trust is enabled by default will not get downloaded.
So let's quickly explore that.
So this is my CLI and currently I do not have a Docker content trust which is enabled over here.
So if I go ahead and download a image from the DDR.
So this is admin scan server and the tag is ubuntu.
So if I quickly wanted to show you.
So you see this is admin scan server.
The tag here is ubuntu.
So we are downloading a image which has this specific tag.
So now you see it says that it has downloaded this successfully.
So that basically means that even though this image has not been signed, the Docker was able to download
it perfectly.
Now in case if you want to enable the Docker content trust, then you will have to export this specific
key value.
So here you have Docker underscore content, underscore trust is equal to one.
So that basically means that Docker content trust is now.
Enabled.
So now let's go ahead and remove this specific image.
I'll do RMI and let's try to pull this image yet again.
And now you see it says that no valid trust data for Ubuntu.
And this is the reason why this specific image will not be downloaded because the Docker content trust
has been enabled and this image is not signed with the trusted signatures.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's try and pull a Nginx image from Docker Hub and you see it is able to get downloaded properly.
Now this is very similar to browsers.
So within browsers if I type google.com, you see it automatically works perfectly.
The reason why it works is because the trusted root CA are already present within the browser and something
really similar happens because here this specific nginx image is trusted and this is the reason why
we were able to download it successfully.
Now you can also go ahead and inspect the image so you can say Docker trust inspect.
And specify the image name.
So you see, you will see that there are multiple signers which are involved.
Now, all of these are the trusted signers.
Now, if you basically do a Docker trust, inspect on example.com, admin scan server and let's use
the tag of Ubuntu.
So here you will see that there is one signer, but this specific signer is not really trusted.
It can happen that a specific image is signed, but that signature is not really trusted and this is
the reason why it will not get downloaded.
So that's about it at a very high level.
Overview As far as the Docker Content Trust is concerned.
Now, do remember, as far as the exam perspective is concerned, you will not be challenged related
to how you can configure the Docker content trust from the scratch.
The only thing that you have to worry about is how you can enable a Docker content trust.
So we have already discussed that.
If you want to enable Docker content trust, you have to use this specific method.
So that's the high level overview.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Enabling DCT ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Docker Groups ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how we can run various Docker CLI commands with the unprivileged
users.
So till now we have been running various Docker commands like Docker, PS or commands related to creating
containers, images, etcetera, with the help of root user.
So if I do an ID over here, so this is currently the root user.
Now all the commands work correctly because if you typically do a socks on Docker, so you see that
Docker runs itself as a root user.
So Docker is running as a root user and this is the reason why if you are running the commands with
root, everything will work perfectly.
Now what happens when you try to run the Docker commands with a non root user?
Let's try it out.
So again, the commands that we are typing here, this will work on Linux system.
So if you are trying it in Windows it will not really work there.
So let me add a new user, let's call it as new user and I'll switch to the new user here.
All right, so now if I do an ID currently I am logged in as a new user.
So with the new user, if I do a docker.
PS you see it is giving an error of permission denied.
So basically what happens is that a docker connects itself with the Unix socket and you do not really
have a permission over that with the normal user.
Now the question is what happens if a normal user wants to perform the operation?
Now the first quick way is you can add this user in the administrative group, like you can add him
within the Sudoers file, but that is not really recommended because then he'll be able to perform various
operations.
So he can then do sudo and then he can perform various operations.
So again, that is not the best way which is recommended.
So in such cases, what Docker recommends you to do is that you should add the user to the Docker group.
Now if I can quickly show you, if I do a ATC group and let's go a bit down here, you will see that
you have a group called as Docker, so you can go ahead and add a user to this specific group.
And once you add it, he will be able to perform various operations.
So let's try it out so you can say new user here.
All right, Now let's switch back to the new user.
And if I do a Docker.
PS Now you see he's able to see all the containers.
So although this works, he will not be able to do everything.
So let's say if I do a sudo on nano I'll say root test dot txt.
You see it is asking for a password and even if you put a password it will not really work because this
user does not have any sudo privileges.
So do remember that if you have any unprivileged user who wants to perform certain operations on Docker,
the quick way is to add that user within the Docker group and that should be perfectly fine.
Now there is one more way in which you can do that.
Let's do one thing, let's call it as Docker user here.
Oops, let's add the Docker user.
All right?
And now you can do a user mode, I'll say the Docker group and I'll specify the user, which is Docker
user.
All right.
So if you basically look into the Etsy Group now, you will see that the Docker user is automatically
added.
So among both the approaches, this is the recommended way.
It is not a best practice to directly modify the group file.
You can run this command and it should do the job for you.
So if you want to quickly verify if it is working as expected, let's do a Docker PS and the Docker
user is able to perform the commands.
So that's the high level overview about how can a non-privileged user run various Docker CLI commands.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Linux Capabilities for Docker ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about Linux capabilities.
Now, Linux capabilities by itself is a huge topic.
So what we'll be doing is that since we are more focused towards the containers, we'll look into the
Linux capabilities as well as the containers are concerned.
Now there are several types of capabilities which Linux provides in order to have a granular access
at the application level.
So we can understand this with a simple example.
So let's say you have a Docker host here.
So this is a Linux Docker host and you have a container.
Now this container A has a set of capabilities which is assigned to it.
So you have various names like you have set pcap and currently the action is yes.
Then con action is yes.
Now you have certain capabilities, like you have this module.
The action is no Linux immutable, the action is no.
So this specific container has certain capabilities which it can make use of.
It has certain capabilities not assigned to it which it cannot make use of.
So depending upon the capabilities which are assigned or not assigned, the container can or cannot
do a certain type of operation.
And this is great because it allows granular level of control over what a container can do.
So let's do one thing.
Let's take a quick demo to understand this.
So I'm in my terminal.
Let's go ahead and run a Docker container.
I'll call it as Cap demo.
And we'll launch it from an Amazon Linux image.
All right.
Now, if we quickly do a Docker exec on demo.
We are connected to it.
So if I do a who am I currently?
You see, we are connected to the container as root.
Now within here, let's go ahead and create a file.
College Test.txt And let's go ahead and verify if the specific command is there, and currently it does
not seem to be there.
Let's go ahead and download it so you can quickly do a yum what provides?
All right, so it is part of the e2f's proc.
So let's go ahead and use it.
Great.
So now let's try to run it again.
And it seems to be present now.
So let's do one thing.
Let's set a immutable bit to a file called as test dot txt and you see it immediately gave a operation
not permitted error.
Now the question is why?
Because currently if you would see we are logged in as a root user.
Now if you look into the slide here within the capability, there is one specific capability which had
the action of no.
So that basically means that you cannot really set a immutable bit on a specific file.
So this is the reason why since this capability was not assigned to a Docker container, even though
you are logged in as a root inside the container, you will not have a privilege to do this specific
operation.
Now within the documentation here, if you go a bit down.
So we are in the section of runtime privilege and Linux capabilities.
Now if you see that there are certain capabilities which are set by default, So these are the capabilities.
If you see that the following table lists the Linux capability options which are allowed by default.
And it also says that these capabilities can be dropped if required.
So these are the set of capabilities which are allowed by default in a container.
And in the next table, you have the list of capabilities which are not granted by default to a specific
container.
And among these list of capabilities, there is one specific capability here which is not really granted
to a container by default.
However, as the documentation says, that it can be added so these capabilities can be added if required
to a specific container.
So let's try this out.
What we will do, let's add a capability which was not present as part of the default configuration
and see if we are able to set an immutable bit.
Now if you go a bit up, it says that you can add or remove capabilities with the hyphen hyphen, cap
hyphen add and hyphen hyphen cap hyphen drop.
So let's try it out.
So I'll log out from the container and let's go ahead and create a new container yet again, I'll call
it as Cap zero two and this time we'll add a capability.
So we'll use the hyphen hyphen, cap hyphen, add, and we'll add a specific capability of Linux immutable
and we'll launch it from the Amazon Linux image.
All right.
So now if you quickly do a Docker exec on Cap zero two and let's go ahead and download the same command.
So we'll quickly do a what provides.
So let's go ahead and install it.
Great.
Once installed, we'll run the same testing methodology.
We'll create a file test.txt and we'll set an immutable bit towards the specific file.
And now you see it is working perfectly well.
Great.
So just to give you an overview of what immutable bit is, is it basically allows it protects that file
against accidental modification or deletion.
So basically, if you try to delete this file, you see it says Operation not permitted.
The reason why it is saying operation not permitted because this file is an immutable bit set.
Now let's try to add some contents to this specific file.
And again, as expected, you see it says operation not permitted because there is an immutable bit
which is set towards this specific file.
Now you can also remove it.
And once removed, if you try to do an echo, it works.
And if you try to remove the file, it works again.
So that's the high level overview about immutable bit.
Again, we'll not discuss in detail right now because this is a big topic and is more suitable towards
a Linux course.
So coming back to the PPT, I hope you understood at a high level overview what capabilities are and
by default we have seen what are the capabilities which are assigned to a specific container and what
are the list of capabilities which are not assigned by default.
However, if you need, you can go ahead and you can remove or you can add a specific capability while
you are launching a container.
So this really proves to be very useful specifically when you want to have a granular control over what
a specific container can do.
And during the time of breach, if you have set the capabilities in the approach of principle of least
privilege, then it really works pretty well.
And definitely it also helps during your hardening process.
So that's the high level overview about Linux capabilities.
With respect to Docker, I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you
in the next video.

--- Privileged Containers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about privileged containers.
Now, by default, Docker container does not have many capabilities assigned to it.
Now, during the video of Linux capabilities, we already saw that by default, when you create a container,
container does have certain set of capabilities which gets associated with it.
But there are various other capabilities like Linux immutable and others which does not get assigned
to the containers by default.
Now, along with that, the Docker containers are also not allowed to access any devices which are that
of the host.
Now, due to these reasons, by default, Docker Container cannot perform various use cases like running
Docker container inside Docker container.
Now if you're wondering if this is possible, the answer is yes.
Definitely it is possible, but not when you just run a default Docker container.
If you want to run Docker inside Docker, then your Docker container needs to have various capabilities
assigned to it, including the access of the underlying host devices.
Now the next important concept is privileged containers.
Now privileged containers can access all the devices on the host as well as have the configuration like
AppArmor or SELinux to allow your container to have nearly the same access to the host as a process
running outside the container of the host.
So when you typically run a privileged containers, the Docker will assign all the capabilities to that
Docker container.
Along with that, these host devices, which were not allowed to be accessed from the container, can
be accessed from your privileged containers.
Now, along with that, whatever limits that you might apply, they do not really get followed by the
privileged containers.
So if you see over here, you have a normal container.
Normal container does not really have much of the access.
So there are a lot of restrictions over here.
But in terms of privileged containers, you do have access nearly as same as a process which is run
directly on the host level.
So I made my Linux server and let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create a container, let's call it as Amazon Linux.
We'll launch it from an Amazon Linux image and we'll make use of a bash process.
Now if you do a Docker PS, you will see that we have one Docker container which is created.
So in today's video we'll take a demo of one of the pointers that we were discussing where by default,
the Docker containers are not allowed to access any host devices.
Now if you go into the dev directory over here and if you do an LS, now you see there are a lot of
devices which are associated.
So you have your vda, which is your root device.
You also have the one which is a primary partition, you have vdb.
So this is basically the first hard disk.
Then you have a second disk which is associated with the host.
So now let's do one thing doing a Docker.
PS Let's connect to the Amazon Linux.
So currently if I do a who am I?
We are root.
So within here, if we go into the dev directory, you will see the amount of devices which are associated
here is much more less than what was actually present within the host.
And this is the reason why if you do not really run a privileged container, it is considered to be
much more safer because many of the devices are not directly connected with your Docker container.
So let's come out of it.
So now let's do one thing.
This time let's go ahead and run a privileged container and look into the differences between a normal
container and a privileged container.
So now what we have done is we have specified a privileged flag.
So whatever container that will get started will be of type privileged.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS now you will see that you have one more container which just
got created two seconds back.
So this is a privileged container.
Let's go ahead and exec into this specific container here And now if you go inside the dev directory
and if you do an LS over here, you will see all the devices which were present within the host are
also available within the container.
So you have the one, you have the DB and various others which are directly associated with your container.
So if you want to perform certain operations over these devices, you can certainly do that.
So this is one benefit.
Now the second benefit of privileged container is that the capabilities are not restricted here.
Now we were discussing that in a Linux capabilities video, that there were certain capabilities which
are not really assigned to a container by default.
One among them was Linux capabilities.
So those capabilities are not really restricted in the privileged containers.
So let's try it out.
So if you quickly do a touch on test dot txt.
Now along with that, let's quickly verify the package associated with the chatter command.
So it is e to FS procs.
Let's go ahead and run it.
Great.
So now if I quickly set an immutable bit to the test.txt, you see, it works perfectly well over here.
Now, the reason why it is working perfectly well is because the capabilities, the Linux capabilities
are not restricted within the privileged containers as opposed to the capabilities of that of the Docker
container.
So these are the two major advantages.
Now, since this container has nearly all the capabilities as well as direct access to the underlying
devices, this is the reason why the usage of privileged containers is something which should be restricted.
So that's the high level overview about privileged containers.
Now, definitely if you have use cases where you want to run a Docker container inside a Docker container,
or if you want to play around with the devices files or you do not really want a restriction in Linux
capabilities.
So in such type of use cases you can directly make use of privileged containers.
Now apart from that, there are various other capabilities where privileged containers can prove to
be quite useful.
However, that's the basic about privileged containers.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Docker Storage Drivers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the storage drivers in Docker.
Now, we already know that a Docker image is built up from a series of layers.
Now whenever we create a container from an image, let's say that this is a Ubuntu image and we create
a container from this specific image.
Now after creating a container, when we log in to the container and we run a command, you will be
able to see that multiple files which are spanned across the layers are merged together and they are
shown to you as a single output.
So there has to be something which would do all the merging aspect and various other nifty gifty details
which are required behind the scenes.
So those are basically the storage drivers.
So storage drivers are the one that does all of these things together for you.
Now in Docker, there are multiple storage drivers which are available, which gives you a different
kind of a trade off.
Now whenever you are working with storage drivers, there is a concept of copy and write or also called
as a cow strategy which will come.
So it is important for us to understand this.
Now do remember that the cow strategy is not unique to Docker.
In fact, the Linux subsystem uses this extensively.
So you can say that this is something similar which Docker has taken.
Now a copy and write basically means that everyone has a single shared copy of the file until it is
written and then the copy is made.
So let's understand this with an example.
So let's say you have a common file over here and there are two programs which needs to access the common
file.
So in such cases, what will happen is both of these programs will make use of a single common file.
You will not have two files which will be created.
Both the programs will use a single common file.
Now let's say you have a program three Again, that program three wants to have access to the common
file.
Again, it will use that same common file.
So in this way you have resources which will be shared and disk space will be saved.
Now the question is what happens when a write is being made to this specific file?
And in this case there is a little different strategy.
So when a write operation happens within the cow strategy, what happens is that common file is being
copied to the layer where the write is happening.
So let's assume that program one is running on layer three of the Docker image, and Layer three is
making some write changes to the common file.
So now the common file which was shared over here, it will be copied to the layer three and then whatever
write which was supposed to happen, that would happen at the layer three approach.
Now do remember here that once a higher layer has made a change to this specific file, let's go a bit
up.
So let's say that you have this specific container image and let's say that there is a file at this
specific layer.
Let's call this as layer three.
Now if you make a change to the container layer, let's say you're logged into the container and you
made a change to this specific file, then this file, whatever file which was present over here, it
will be copied to this container layer completely.
So you have to be very careful.
Let's say this file in layer three is of 500 MB and you are making a change to this specific file.
So this file will be copied to your container layer completely.
So the entire 500 MB gets copied to this container layer and the change would be made at this specific
container layer.
Now whenever a read operation happens, Docker storage driver will ensure that if the file exists in
this container layer, it will not read the file in the below layer altogether.
It will read the file from the container layer, which is the read and write layer over here.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what storage driver does.
Let's do one thing, let's jump into the practical and understand more about it.
So I'm in my Docker console and if we quickly do a Docker info over here, you will be able to see the
storage driver which is being used.
So during the earlier times FS was one of the standard storage driver, but it has recently changed.
So if you see over here you have a storage driver of overlay two and it uses a backing file system of
ZFS.
So this is the storage driver, which is.
Been use right now.
So let's do one thing.
If you go to var lib Docker and if you do an LS hyphen L over here you will see a directory with the
name of storage driver.
So in my case, since overlay two is the default storage driver, you will have a default directory
of overlay two.
Now if I do a docker images here, currently there are no images which are present over here.
All right, so now let's go to overlay two and if you do an LS hyphen L, there are two files which
are present over here.
Now, if you go to the file of L, you will see that there are no contents within this.
So we'll discuss about this as well.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a docker pull on ubuntu image.
Great.
So the ubuntu image has been downloaded.
So now if you do a docker images you should see that you have a ubuntu image and let's go out of the
directory.
If I do an LS hyphen l, you will see that there are multiple directories which have been created over
here.
So these directories are associated with the layer.
Now do remember that the layer name and the directory name is not the same.
They are different.
So speaking about our layer diagram, you see that Ubuntu image can have multiple layers and you will
have multiple directories associated with these layers.
Now typically the lower layer, so the lowest layer over here will have the highest size.
So now if you quickly do a D hyphen search star over here you will see that there is one specific directory
which has the highest size over here.
So if you do a CD on D zero and let's do ls hyphen L, you will see here that there are two directories.
Now these two directories in overlay two will be in the lowest layer, one will be the div and second
would be the link.
We'll discuss about that.
So now within div, if I do an LS hyphen L, you will see that there are multiple directories which
are created within this specific layer.
So you have been bought.
So this is basically the Linux file system.
Now if you do a D hyphen star, you will see that various directories has multiple sizes which are present
over here.
Now this is one part, so let's go out of the div and you also have a file called as link.
Now if you open up the link file, this is you can call it as a shorthand identifier for a specific
layer within the image.
So this is a shorthand identifier over here.
So let's do one thing.
I'll copy this up and within my notepad I'll say lowest layer and the identifier to that specific layer
is this.
All right, so let's go a bit up.
Now, we were discussing about the L directory, so this is basically the lower one.
Now, this basically holds something like a symbolic link.
So you see you have multiple links over here and each link is directly associated with the div directory
of a individual layer.
Now if you look into the name, which is x j, so this x j is directly associated with the div directory
of one of the layers.
So linking.
So this is something like a symbolic links if you have used Linux.
So if this is a symbolic link and if I do a CD, I'll automatically go into this specific directory.
Let's try this out.
So when I do this and if I do an LS hyphen L, you will see that I'm automatically logged in to a div
directory which is present over here in this specific layer.
Great.
So let's go a bit up.
So currently there are four layers you see, and each of them has four different symbolic links.
Now let's do one thing, let's explore some different layer altogether.
Let's explore what this 965 layer has.
So I'll go to nine, six, five.
Now within here you have something called as a lower.
So this can be better understood here.
So there will be one layer which will be the lowest one and there will be multiple higher layers.
So this higher layer will have some kind of a change on top of the lower layer.
So let's say that this is a layer over here and you have added a new file in this second layer.
So this second layer needs to identify on what is the lower layer which is sitting behind it.
So this identifier is what is referred into the lower file.
So if you look into the lower file over here, you will have multiple different identifiers over here.
Now if you see this specific layer, so this has a layer specific ID, and it also mentions on what
is the identifier.
So it has XG.
And if you look into the document, it has a reference to the lower layer, which is XG.
All right.
So I hope at a high level overview, you have started to understand the difference.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go to a diff here.
And here there is a diff under the Var directory.
If you have var lib, you have apt, you have list.
And basically this would show you whatever difference that it might have over a lower layer.
So let's go a bit up.
Great.
So we explored what this layer was all about.
So let's discuss the one more layer which is F6.
We'll go to F6, we'll go inside the div and here you see there are multiple directories over here,
so let's find it out.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go to bin and within bin you have a file called as init Ctl.
Now we already know that since this file is present in this specific layer, it would not be present
in the lower layers or if it was present then there would have been certain changes which would be the
difference between both of them.
So let's do one thing.
We already know that the current layer that we have, let's go a bit up.
So this specific layer, whatever layer this is so this has an ID of three X, so this layer has a file
called as init and we already know that whatever lower layer because we are assuming that whatever lower
layer is present over here, this lower layer might not have a specific binary.
So since this is a binary, I am assuming that a lower layer might not have it.
If it would have been a text file, I would have not assumed the same.
So let's go a bit up.
We'll go to the lower directory where basically the links are being created and this is the one which
is the lowest layer.
So let's go here and from here we'll go to the bin and within bin let's see whether the init is present
or not.
So this is the eye.
So here you see, you only have two files which are created with AI, one is installed kernel and second
is ISO size.
You do not really have the init Ctl so we can assume that the init Ctl binary was added at the higher
layers.
All right.
Now we already know that you have certain files in the lower layer.
We have certain new additions in the higher layer, so whenever you start a container you will see that
all the files have been merged appropriately.
So let's try this out.
So if you do a Docker.
PS currently there are no containers, so let's create a new container.
I'll call it a name of my ubuntu and I'll launch from the ubuntu image.
Great.
So now if you do a docker ps you should see that my ubuntu container is up and running.
So if I do a docker container exec on my ubuntu or bash.
So here whatever files and contents that you see, these are the ones which are merged from all the
layers.
So now if you go to the directory and if I do an ls hyphen l, you should see the init file which is
present over here.
All right.
So I hope at a higher level overview you started to understand on what storage driver does.
Now, all of this magic that happens behind the scenes is completely handled by the storage driver and
something similar to the copy on write strategy that we discussed.
This again, is something which a storage driver would assume.
Now, before we conclude, in order to avoid any confusion, I would just like to share you one part.
So let's say that there is a file in the lower layer, All right?
And let's say at the container layer, because currently you see we are logged in inside the container.
So this is the container layer.
Now, if from the container layer, we are modifying a file.
So currently we are in the container layer and we are modifying certain files which are present in the
lower layer.
Now what storage driver will do, it will make use of the copy and write strategy.
So it will take this file.
So earlier all of them were basically using this common file.
Now whenever a write operation came, then a file copy was made to the container layer over here.
So if you have a file called as example dot txt in the lower layer and a user is modifying that file
in the higher layer, which is the container layer.
So the example dot txt file will be copied from lower layer to the container layer.
So let's assume that this is the container layer and then whatever modification is being done, it will
be done at the container layer over here.
Now whenever a read operation happens, your storage driver will see that the example dot txt file is
present at the container layer.
It is also present at the lower layer and storage driver will take the file which is at the container
layer as a higher priority.
So whenever a.
Operation happens.
It does not happen on the file, which is at the lower layer, but it will happen on the same file which
is present if in the container layer.
So I hope you understood this specific concept.
Now, this common file, because we already discussed that a container image can be used by multiple
containers, so there can be ten different containers which might be using that same image.
So this common file can be referenced.
It can still be used by a different container which is running altogether.
So if you take this analogy in terms of container, you have container one and container two.
So earlier both of these containers were using this common file.
Now if you have the container one which wants to modify this file, the storage driver will pull this
file, it will copy this file to the container layer.
So then this becomes the container layer.
It will copy this file here, whatever program here it modifies the file, and this file stays at the
container layer.
And anytime any process from the container wants to read this common file, the Docker storage driver
will send the request to the file which is in the container layer and not within the image layer.
However, if someone from a different container wants to read the file, it will still be reference
to the common file which is shared among multiple containers.
Great.
So I hope at a high level overview you started to understand what storage driver is all about in exams.
You should have a high level overview on what storage driver is about.
Now in Docker, there are various types of storage drivers which are available.
You have UFS, so used to be a default in Docker in the earlier builds.
So you have UFS, you have device mapper, you have Overlayfs, you have ZFS, you have, you have Btrfs
and various others if you want to associate.
So these are the primary storage drivers which are available.
We already discussed that in the Docker 18.
So in the latest version of the Docker, as far as when you are recording this video, only two, which
is part of the overlay here, is the default storage driver, which is available in Docker.
So this is it about the high level overview of storage drivers.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Block vs Object Storage ---

Hey, everyone, and welcome back to the Knowledge Portal Video series.
And in today's lecture, we will be speaking about block versus object storage.
So let's get started and have a high level overview regarding the difference between them.
Now, in a very simple terms, in block storage, the data is stored in terms of blocks.
So let's assume that this is a storage device, for example, a hard disk drive.
And in terms of block storage, what happens is whenever you install a file system like NTFS or Ext3
3 or 4, then the file system will actually divide the storage in terms of blocks.
So what really happens is the blocks are created.
So you see the blocks are getting created and once the block is created, then the storage is stored
in terms of blocks.
So I'll show you one of the examples.
Let me just log in to one of my server.
So this is the server and if you run the command, it will basically show you on what is the block size
of a device, which is dev.
SD So if you do a lsblk, I have two devices over here.
One is the SD, which is of size 25 GB and second is SD, which is a swap partition.
So in this SD, I have let me show you.
So I have a Ext4 based file system and when you do a block dev it will show you the block size of this
specific storage device.
So going back to the GPT, so this file system is divided in terms of 409, six based blocks.
So if you have a data of let's assume 809 6 or 8 KB, then you will have two blocks which will be allocated.
If you have a 12 KB of data, then there will be three blocks which will be allocated.
So it all works based on blocks.
Now one more important thing to remember is that data stored in blocks are normally read or written
entirely a whole block at the same time.
And most of the file systems that we speak about, like for USB or for Windows, we have NTFS or fat.
For Linux we have Ext4 or XFS.
Those file systems all are based on block storage.
Now when we speak about block storage, every block has a specific address and application can call
those specific blocks via a Scsi call via the block address.
Now one more important thing to remember is that there is no storage side metadata associated with a
block except the address.
So if there is an object or there is a file, let's assume there is a.
Image file which is being stored.
There is no metadata.
Like just by looking at the block, I cannot determine like what is the file being stored over here.
So that is called as a metadata and it does not also have a description or a owner.
So we'll look into what I really mean by a metadata when we talk about object storage.
So in an object storage.
It is a data storage architecture where the message or where the data is stored as object as opposed
to a block of storage.
So there are no blocks of data which has been divided.
So even if you have let's assume you have a ten MB of data, it will be directly stored as a object.
There are no blocks which are being present in the object storage one.
And a very important point to remember here.
That object is defined as a file, which is a data along with all of its metadata, which is combined
together as a specific object.
So let me show you this.
AWS S3 is type of a object based store.
So when I go to AWS S3 and let's open up any.
Bucket.
So I have a file which is dot PNG file over here.
And if I click over here within the properties, you find that there is a metadata which is attached
over here.
So let's click here.
And it will show you what is the type of metadata, which is content type, which is image dot PNG.
So this metadata basically tells on what exactly the object is all about, whether it is a text file
or it is a song or an MP3 file or it is a image file.
So this is the metadata which S3 automatically puts when you upload a file.
You can also create a custom metadata according to your requirement.
So this is also possible and this is the major difference.
So this is what this basically means.
What we call as an object in S3 is not only a file, but it is also the metadata which is connected
with the specific file.
So this file, along with all the metadata together, creates an object.
So that is the second point.
And the object ID, which is basically a unique ID associated, will be the combination of the content
of the object as well as the metadata.
So we'll be looking into this whenever the right time comes.
Otherwise it will become much complicated.
So difference between block storage and object storage.
One of the very famous difference I can tell is that object storage can be called via API.
So you see, you have a Https based interface so you can call the.
Object.
So if it if this was a text file, you could actually open this up in the browser.
Via Https.
You will see you are actually able to open this up from the browser itself.
However, you cannot really do that directly with the block storage.
So that is one of the major differences within the object storage as well as the block storage.
Now object storage are not as fast as block storage, but it does have its own importance in the industry.
So we will be speaking in more about the object and the block storage whenever the right time comes.
But this is a basic high level overview of object and block storage.
So this is it about this lecture.
I hope you got a very high level overview about both of them and if you have any doubts, suggestions,
questions, feel free to connect us at Twitter, Facebook or LinkedIn or mail us at instructors at KP
Labs dot in.
Thanks for watching.

--- Changing Storage Drivers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how we can change the Docker storage driver, which is being
used within our workstation.
Now, before we go ahead and look into how we can change the storage driver, there are certain important
pointers that you need to remember.
Now if you go within the documentation, there are certain recommended storage drivers, which depends
on the distribution which you are using.
So for the Docker engine, which is of the community edition, the recommended storage driver for Ubuntu
is overlaid two or UFS.
Now for the Docker engine community on Debian, you have overlay two for CentOS, you have overlay two
for the fedora, you have overlay two.
Now again, if you see there are various other drivers which are available like device mapper or UFS.
Now these drivers are soon going to be deprecated and you will not see them in the future release.
So as a start, so as a best practice, if you are not sure what is the storage driver that you should
be using, Overlay two is the default one that you should be using.
And in fact whenever you install the Docker, the overlay two is the default driver that is being used.
Now before we go ahead and look into how we can change the storage driver, let's quickly look into
what is the storage driver which is being used currently.
So currently the operating system is based on Ubuntu 18 and if you go a bit up you will see that the
storage driver here is the overlay two.
Now let's quickly do one thing.
Let's start a new container, I'll call it as overlay two and I'll start it from the Nginx image.
So if you would have paid a careful attention to the storage driver video, which we had, you would
have known where all of these data would be stored.
So if you go to var lib Docker now there is a directory called as overlay two and you see there are
multiple subdirectories within it.
I hope you have understood what these are.
If not, you can go ahead and revise the storage driver overview video that we had created.
Now, one very important part to remember is that if we are going to change the storage driver, then
whatever data that we might have for the previous storage driver would be inaccessible and whatever
containers which were launched would be inaccessible.
So let's take an example.
So let's say that our current storage driver is overlay two and you have launched ten containers with
the overlay two.
Now tomorrow you want to change your storage driver to EFS.
Now as soon as you make a switch to EFS, whatever data that you might have would be inaccessible and
the containers would also be inaccessible.
So we'll look into how exactly that might look like.
So let's do one thing.
The first thing that you would typically would do while you want to change the storage driver is to
stop the docker.
So I'll say systemctl, stop Docker.
Great.
The next thing is you have to go to the Docker directory, which is Etsy Docker and create a new file
called as Daemon dot Json.
And within this file just put this syntax so you have storage driver overlay two.
So this is the way in which you can specify the storage driver.
Now since we do not want to overlay too for our demo, we'll make use of EFS.
All right, so now I'll go ahead and start the Docker.
Great.
Now if you quickly do a Docker info and if you go a bit up within the storage driver section, you see
now the storage driver has changed from overlay to to EFS.
Now as soon as it got changed, if you would do a Docker, PS, you will not see the container up.
In fact, if you even do a Docker PS hyphen a the container that we had created with the help of overlay
to driver is no longer accessible.
So now if you go to var lib Docker directory, you will see that there is one more directory of type
FS and if you basically run the same container, so let's change the name here.
I'll change the name to FS.
So if you notice it is again re pulling the nginx image because of the storage driver change.
Now if you do a docker ps you should see the nginx image up and running.
However, this time the directory would be under the FS.
So you see there is a different approach in which stores the data.
So all of the data that you might store in the container readwrite layer as well as the images would
be part of the FS directory here.
So that's about it, about how you can go ahead and change the storage driver.
Again, if you want to change the storage driver, always read through the documentation, see what
are the storage drivers which are available, which one are the recommended and the supported one and
which ones are the deprecated ones.
Now always make sure you read the documentation because if you see here, it states that the overlay
storage driver is deprecated in the Docker engine 18.9.
So this is the overlay one.
This is not the overlay to overlay two is the latest one.
So it says that the overlay would be deprecated and it will be removed from the future release.
Now it also states that the device mapper storage driver is deprecated in the Docker engine and it will
also be removed in the future release.
And the last but very important point is that whenever possible, overlay two is the recommended storage
driver.
So that's the high level overview.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has given you a glimpse on how you can change the storage driver as well as the way
in which you can check what are the recommended drivers for a specific Docker edition.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Changing Storage Drivers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Docker Volumes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about Docker volumes.
Now before we go ahead and understand more about what Docker volumes are, let's look into the challenges
when we are writing the files into the Containers writable layer.
Now we already discussed that whatever image that we have.
So this image is of read only.
So all of these layers are read only and whatever writes that you make, those writes happen at the
container layer.
So they are also referred as the read write layer.
Now whenever you create any file inside the container, that file gets created in this specific container
layer.
Now the problem with writing the file in this layer is that the layer is completely dependent upon the
container lifecycle.
So, for example, if this container is deleted, then all the files which have been written to the
container layer will also be removed.
So that is the first problem.
Now, the second problem is if there is some other process which is running maybe, let's say in the
container or inside the host itself, if they want to access the content inside this specific layer,
it is little difficult to do that.
Now, let's look into the second part of the challenges.
Now, the second part states that whenever you write the contents into this read write layer, we need
to make use of some kind of a storage driver so storage driver can be a UFS or overlay to any union
file system based driver.
Now, the problem with this kind of a approach is that as soon as we make use of a storage driver,
then the overall performance that you can achieve in storage driver is much more less when compared
to the host file system.
So the overall performance is also degraded.
Now in order to solve this, we basically make use of something called as Docker volumes.
Now what Docker volumes are.
So let's say that this is a container so you can mount the containers directory inside a file system
or you can mount it inside a specific area called as volume.
So now what happens is this container that you see over here, it is independent on the data which is
stored at the host level.
So irrespective of whether the container is running or container is deleted, this data that is there
within the file system or within the volume will continue to exist.
So this is one big advantage.
So even if the container is deleted, the data is still present.
And since the data is there within the host, if you have another process or if there are any other
containers which are running, those processes can also access this specific area.
Now there are three ways in which you can store the files in the host machine.
So one is through the help of volume.
So these are referred as Docker volume.
Then you have the bind mounts and for Linux you also have the temp mount.
So temp FS mount.
Again, this is not persistent because it stores inside the memory for persistent, you have the bind
mount and you have the Docker volume.
So in today's video we will be understanding more about Docker volume post which will look into what
exactly Bind Mount is all about.
So let's quickly jump into the practical and understand what this is all about.
So in my CLI, and if I can quickly do a docker, PS you should see that I have one container which
is up and running now.
This container is based on the overlay to storage driver.
So if I can quickly go to var lib Docker and within here there should be a directory for overlay too.
So going inside the overlay two, you should see that there is one directory here.
So this directory is specific to the container.
Right layer.
Now let's do one thing.
So this specific container, whatever data that you might be writing inside the container would be stored
in a specific directory.
Now this directory, whatever container read and write layer that we were discussing.
So this read and write layer, whatever things that you will be writing here.
It depends upon the container lifecycle.
As we discussed, if the container is deleted, then whatever data that you might have written through
the read and write layer would also cease to exist.
So let's try it out.
So let's say I'll stop the nginx and I'll remove the Nginx container.
All right.
Now if I do an LS over here, you will see that the directory which had the name of F6F is no longer
existing.
Now it has been deleted.
And if you want to recover data, there is no way to do that.
And this is the reason why for the applications which are stateless.
This type of architecture would not really matter.
But if you have a stateful application, so let's say that many organizations, they host their databases
like MySQL inside the container.
Now they do not really want that, that the container, if it gets deleted or if there are any issues
with the container, they would not be able to access the data.
So you have to keep the data of the container separately and the container separately.
That is the recommended approach.
So that can be achieved with the help of bind mounts as well as volumes.
So let's look into the simplest approach and then we'll go ahead and discuss in detail.
So currently if I do a Docker volume LS, you will see that there are no volumes which are created so
we can go ahead and create a new Docker volume.
So you can just do a Docker volume hyphen hyphen L and you will get the commands which are required
to create a volume.
So let's follow this.
I'll say Docker volume, create and I'll call it my volume.
All right, so now if you do a Docker volume LS now you will see that there is a new volume created,
which is my volume.
So comparing it with the diagram over here, what we have done is we have created this Docker volume,
so it is referred as the Docker area.
So this volume is created.
Now whatever container that we might launch, we can associate that containers directory with the volumes
directory.
So let's try that out.
So let's do one thing, let's create a new container.
I'll say Docker container run, let's call it as BusyBox and I'll specify hyphen V where I can specify
the my volume here, and you can also specify which directory you want to associate it with.
So let me specify the Etsy directory and I'll launch it from the BusyBox image.
Now if you do a Docker PS, you should see that your container is up and running.
Now we already have seen that.
We have mapped the data.
So if you quickly do a Docker volume LS and if you do a Docker volume inspect on my volume, you will
see that this specific volume has a mount point in var lib Docker volumes.
My volume underscore data.
So let's quickly go there.
I'll go to var lib Docker volumes.
My volume underscore data.
Now here you should be able to see all the contents of the Etsy directory.
So these are all the contents that you see.
Now you can quickly verify.
So you can go to container and say Docker container exec it BusyBox.
H Now if you go to the Etsy directory, these are the files which are present within this directory.
So all of these files here, they are stored within the Docker volume inside the host.
So now the Etsy directory from the container is associated with a specific area within your host.
So now even if the container stops working or if the container is deleted, whatever data that might
be present here would still remain.
So let's try that out.
So if you basically do a DF hyphen edge, you will see that the root file system is based on overlay.
And then you have the Etsy directory here.
Etsy directory is within the volume of dev slash one.
So this is a different disk altogether when compared to the root volume.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and stop the BusyBox image and one stop.
You can go ahead and remove the BusyBox container.
Great.
So now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that a container no longer cease to exist.
You can even do a docker ps hyphen e to verify.
Great.
So the container has been deleted.
However, if you do an LS hyphen L here you can see that the data continues to be present.
So this data, which is present within the volume, is independent about the container lifecycle.
So even if the container is deleted, the data still remains.
Now there is one more advantage here is that if there are any processes within the host and that process
might want to see or want to access the data.
So then if the data is present within the volume, then the process will be able to quickly access the
data.
So this is one more advantage of using a Docker volume.
Now you can.
So currently you see the data is present within the volume called as my volume.
Now if you do not need it, you can go ahead and remove the my volume.
And now if you do a Docker volume ls, you should see that the volume.
Has been deleted.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what the volume is all about.
Now, before we conclude, I just wanted to show you one more thing.
So basically I have a file, so this is a very simple Docker file.
So here what we are doing is we have from BusyBox now we are creating a directory called as my volume
and we are doing a echo of Hello world inside a file called as hello dot txt in the my volume directory.
And then we are specifying a volume called as my volume over here.
So now what will happen is at this three stage first the container will be launched, then a my volume
directory would be created and then there would be a file called as hello dot txt which will have the
content of Hello world.
Then within the Docker file we are specifying a volume over here.
So this volume is basically my volume.
So now what will happen is contents which are present over here will be copied to the volume called
as my volume, which is residing within the host.
So let's try this out.
So I'll quickly do a Docker build and let's call it as my demo and I'll build the image.
All right.
Now there are few important points to remember.
Now within the Docker file, we had explicitly specified the volume over here, and this is the reason
why if you remember, while we were creating our volume, we had created something like Docker Volume
Create.
So this was the first step.
And we also had done something like Docker Container Run and we had done a mapping like Hyphen V on
my volume with the Etsy directory, so this is no longer needed.
So now if you do a Docker images, you will see that you have a image called as my demo.
So let's quickly create a container from the my demo image.
Alright, so here I am, not specifying any volumes here.
So if you do a docker PS you should see that our container is up and running.
Now along with that, if you would see here, if you do a Docker volume LS, you will see that a volume
has automatically been created and this volume should have the hello dot txt file.
So I hope you now know where this volume would be residing.
So it would be var lib docker volumes.
Now within here you should see a directory with the same name as the volume name, which is 79.
And inside this under a directory of data, if you do an ls hyphen l, you will see hello dot txt which
is present over here.
So I hope at the high level overview you understood what this is all about.
Now the problem with this type of approach here is that you will see that from the volume.
It is very difficult to identify.
So let's say that there are 100 containers and 100 containers have a different volume name, which is
very random.
And after a few months, all of those 100 containers have been removed now from doing a Docker volume.
LS You will not be able to identify whether the volume is useful or not because it has a random name,
so it is recommended to use a named volume here.
So named volume as in so we can make use of the same command.
But you can specify here on what is the volume name that you want to associate with.
So I can say that this is the volume of my demo zero two and you want to associate a directory of my
volume to this specific volume.
So now if you run this, now if you do a Docker volume ls, you will see that there is a directory called
as my demo zero two and the same goes if you go to var lib Docker volumes, you should see now you have
a directory called as my volume and inside the data you should see hello dot txt.
So this type of approach is a better approach because otherwise if you have a random name it becomes
difficult for you to be able to identify on what exactly this volume is all about.
So I hope at a high level overview understood on what Docker volumes are all about.
So any content within the container can be mapped to a specific Docker volume.
Now do remember that when you specify hyphen V, you do not really have to create a volume explicitly
like Docker volume create.
It can automatically create a volume for you.
Now there are certain important pointers that you need to remember.
The first is that a given volume can be mounted into multiple containers simultaneously.
So this is a great advantage here.
The next is when no running container is using the volume.
The volume is still available and the docker does not remove that specific volume automatically.
So the volume lifecycle is independent of the container lifecycle.
Now, the third important point here is that when you mount a volume, it may be named or anonymous.
So anonymous we already saw because it had a very random value now.
Anonymous volumes are not explicitly given a name.
So you have seen that it has a random name.
So basically that random name allows Docker to have a guarantee that that name would be unique within
the Docker.
Host However, you can also give a name to your volume and that is also referred as the named volume.
If you want to associate a specific name, it is also referred as the named volume.
So that's about it for the Docker volumes.
I hope this high level overview video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in
the next video.

--- Bind Mounts ---

Hey, Ron, and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about bind mounts.
Now, when you make use of bind, mount a file or a directory on the host machine is mounted into the
container.
Now, do remember that whenever you are doing a bind mount, you have to specify the path of file or
directory with the help of the full or relative path.
So when you compare the bind mounts with volumes, there are certain differences.
So when you use a volume, there is a specific area which is being created under the var lib Docker
volumes directory and that area is basically referenced to the container.
Now bind Mount basically uses the existing directory within the file system.
So let's say you already have a directory and there are certain contents inside that directory.
Now you want your container to be able to access the contents within the directory inside the host.
So in such cases you can make use of bind mounts.
So let's quickly look into how bind mounts would work and also how they are different with the help
of Docker volumes.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly do one thing.
Let's create a new container, I'll call it as Nginx and I'll launch it from the Nginx image.
Now if you can quickly do a Docker.
PS this is the container which got started.
Let's quickly find the IP address of this container and the IP address is one 7217 0.2.
So if you quickly do a curl on one 7217 0.2 you will see the default nginx page.
Now this default nginx page comes from a specific directory inside the container.
Let's find this out.
So I'll quickly do a docker container.
Exec enginex on bash.
So now here if you go to usr share nginx.
HTML, you will see that there is a file called as index.html here.
And if you quickly do a cat here you see this is the default nginx dot HTML file.
Now let's come out of the container and let's do one thing.
Let's create a new directory here.
I'll call it as index.
And inside this directory let's say hello, this is bind mount file and I'll put it to index dot HTML
file.
All right, so now what is happening is this index dot HTML is residing within the host on a specific
path.
Now through the bind mount, we can say to the container that a specific file can be resided within
the file system.
Now, do remember that when you talk about volume.
So volume is specifically a directory, which is a volume created typically under the var lib Docker
volumes.
Now when it comes to the bind, mount, bind, mount generally refers to a existing file or a existing
directory.
So let's try that out.
I'll, I'll say Docker container run, I'll give it a name, let's call it as Nginx bind zero one and
this time with hyphen V, I can specify the directory under my host, which is root index and I can
specify the directory within my container which is usr share nginx.
HTML and I'll create from nginx image.
Now if you do a docker ps now this specific container got launched.
Let's quickly find the IP address of the container.
So this is the IP address.
Now let's quickly do a curl on one 7217 0.3 and you see instead of index dot HTML, you will see that
it is basically showing you the hello, this is the bind mount file.
And in fact, if you quickly log in inside the container.
And from the container if you go to user share nginx.
HTML, you will see that this is the index dot HTML which came from the host directory.
So host directory is basically the root index file.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what the bind mount is all about.
The bind mount is specifically useful.
Let's say that you already have a website which is created which has a lot of HTML files, CSS files,
JavaScript, etcetera.
Now you don't really want to copy all of those things inside the container all the time.
So in such cases you can have a bind mount so that you can have all of your website contents inside
a specific directory.
So in our case, let's say all of your website contents are within the root index directory and any
container that gets launched.
And if that container is going to serve a website, it can have a bind mount to this specific directory
so it becomes much more easier.
There.
Now do remember that whenever you are creating a bind mount, there are two ways in which you can do
that.
So this is the first way.
So the first way is by hyphen V.
Now with hyphen V, you can also create a volume.
Now the difference between a volume and a bind mount is this slash specifically when it comes to Linux
system.
So this slash indicates a full path.
So this slash is one of the differences when you take the comparison of a bind mount and the volume.
Now, there is also a different way in which you can create a bind mount.
In fact, let's do one thing so you can say mount the type would be bind.
You can specify a comma, you can say source is equal to.
So this root index is going to be the source.
You can have a comma, you can say target is equal to and this path is going to be your target.
And that's about it.
So now the next thing just change the name of the container so it does not get conflicted.
And now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that you have one more container called as Nginx bind
zero two and if you typically do a docker inspect on Nginx bind zero two.
So this is the IP address.
Let's quickly do a curl on one 7217 0.4 and you should be able to see hello, this is bind mount file.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what bind mounts are all about.
Now before we conclude this video, let me actually show you a few things.
So we'll connect inside the container.
Let's go to user share nginx.
HTML and from here, let's quickly verify.
I'll do a echo and I'll say this is my custom changes and I can add it inside the index.html.
So if you do a cat on index.html, the container can add certain changes inside a file which has been
mounted with the help of bind mount.
Now in case if you want to avoid this kind of a scenario, you can even have a read only based mind
mount.
So in case if you want to have a read only based bind mount, you can just specify a comma with read
only.
Oops, we already have the container with the same name, so let's change the name of the container.
Great.
So now if you do a docker, PS you have one more container with the name of Nginx bind zero three.
Let's connect to the container.
And now let's go to user share nginx.
HTML.
So this is the index.html file.
Now let's try to make some more changes here.
I'll say this is my third change and and I'll try to put it inside index.html.
And currently you see it states that the index dot HTML and says that it is a read only file system.
So you can even have read only so that no container can modify the data which is part of the bind mount.
So that's the high level overview about bind mounts.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Bind Mounts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Automatically Remove Volume on Container Exist ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will look into how we can automatically remove the volume associated with
the container whenever a container is deleted.
Now, whenever a container is created with the hyphen flag and if the main process within the container
completes or it stops, then the container goes into the exited state.
Now we can list the containers which are currently running as well as the containers which are in the
exited state with the help of Docker hyphen command.
So I'm sure that you already know what these are all about.
Now many times what happens is that container are used to perform a certain job and after that job completes,
the container is also deleted.
Now in such cases, let's say that you have a job which basically pulls a data from, um, a specific
URL and it pushes to your internal storage.
Now, after it has completed the job, we want that the container should be removed automatically so
that specific part can be achieved with the help of hyphen hyphen option.
So basically in this type of a scenario, if you use D flag and if the job completes, then the container
would ideally sit within the exited state within your system and it will unnecessarily increase the
disk space within your system.
So let's look into the hyphen hyphen flag and then once we understand this, then we'll also look into
how we can automatically remove the volumes associated with the containers when they are removed.
So in my CLI, and let's quickly create a new container, I'll say docker container run d d, let's
give it a name of container zero one.
I'll launch it from the BusyBox image and, and we'll run the command, which is ping C ten on Google.com.
All right, so now if we do a docker, PS, our main command is ping C ten Google.com.
So basically this will ping the google.com ten times and after it has completed doing that, the process
will exit and the container will also exit.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here.
So it has been a few seconds.
So now let's go ahead and do a Docker.
PS So you should see the container has exited.
So if you want to verify, you can do a Docker PS hyphen E command and you will see the container has
exited.
Now let's assume that this is a job process.
So this basically fetches a data from a URL and it pushes to a internal storage.
So now what we want is after the command or after the script has completed its execution, we don't
really want it to be in the exited stage because it will unnecessarily lead to disk usage.
So what we want is that the container should be removed automatically when the job is completed.
So in such cases you can make use of the hyphen hyphen option.
So let's use the same command.
I'll rename the container to container zero two.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS as usual, this is the container zero two and it is running
the ping Google.com command.
Let's quickly wait for few seconds.
So now if we do a docker, PS our container has stopped appearing and if you do a Docker PS hyphen A
here, you will see that the container zero two no longer exit.
So that means the container zero two has been deleted once the main command has completed its execution.
Now many times what happens is that we create container with its associated volume.
Now, in such cases, we also want the volume to be deleted.
So let's take an example here.
So let me remove the hyphen hyphen option and let's create a volume.
I'll call as test volume.
Alright, so now if we do a Docker volume LS, you will see that there is one volume which got created.
Now the problem with this kind of approach is that if you do a Docker PS you see the container has exited
and if you do a Docker PS hyphen A So you have the exited container.
So let's quickly do a Docker container prune.
So this will remove all the stopped containers.
So now if you do a Docker PS hyphen A you don't really have a container.
However, if you do a Docker volume hyphen LS you still have the volume associated with the container.
So although this is good in a lot of use cases, however, in the use cases where you are using hyphen
hyphen RM where your container is only needed for a specific operation and after that the container
is no longer needed.
So in such cases for such type of containers, if you are also creating a volume that basically would
mean that the container would be removed.
However, the volume would still be present.
So what you want is after the container is removed, so let's say you are specifying the hyphen hyphen
option.
So after the container is removed, you even want the volume to be deleted.
And what is the way in which you can do that is something that will be looking.
So before we do that, let's quickly remove the volume here.
All right, now we'll run the same command.
Let's go a bit up.
So in order to do that, you basically have to run the same command, which is hyphen hyphen.
RM.
And now if you do a Docker.
PS you should see that there is a command.
And if you do a Docker volume LS you'll see that there is a volume.
So this is a container and the container is running this command and there is also a volume which is
associated with it.
So after ten times the ping completes and let's do a docker.
PS So you see the container is no longer present.
If you do Docker PS hyphen A, the container is removed and here if you even do a Docker volume ls,
you will see the volume has also been removed.
So hyphen hyphen is a great option in which you can go ahead and remove the container as soon as it
exits.
And if you specify this option along with the volume, then even the volume is removed.
So that's the high level overview about automatically removing the volumes when the container is deleted.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Device Mapper ---

Hayden.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will have a high level overview about the device mapper.
Now, the device mapper is a framework which is provided by the Linux kernel, which is generally used
for mapping the physical block devices into the higher level virtual devices.
Now this can be explained here where you have the physical block devices, here you have the virtual
block devices here, and device mapper is generally used to link them.
Now device mapper generally works by passing the data from the virtual block devices.
So any data which is stored here, it gets passed over to the underlying physical block devices, which
is provided by the device mapper itself.
Now this can be better understood with this diagram over here.
So as we were discussing, device mapper creates a logical devices on top of physical devices and provides
certain more features like Raid.
You have encryption, you have cache and various others.
So if you look into this diagram, there are multiple block pool.
So you can consider this as a physical device.
It can be like a hard disk or a SSDs and you have a logical device.
This is like a virtual device which is being created.
So this logical device is mapped to multiple blocks and this blocks is where the data would be stored.
So let's say you have a user user is creating a file in the logical device.
Now logical device in turn would be storing that file in the block pool.
So this is a block pool in the hard disk drive.
And similarly, if a file is being read, it is being initiated.
The read operation has been initiated from the block pool and it is being sent back to the user.
Now, this mapping, because let's say a single logical device can be connected to multiple blocks within
your disk.
So this pointers from the logical device to block pool are generally stored in the metadata device.
All right.
So this metadata device proves to be extremely important because it holds where exactly the data associated
with the logical devices.
All.
Now, as far as Docker is concerned, if you are using a device mapper, there are two major modes which
are being used.
One is loop mode and second is direct mode.
Now loop mode should only be used for the testing environment.
Now it basically makes use of the loopback mechanism, which is generally on the slower side.
Now talking about the direct mode production host Using direct device mapper storage must use the direct
mode.
So this is important part to remember.
Like if you are planning to use device mapper like you have concluded that device mapper should be used,
then you should make use of direct mode.
Now this mode is much, much more faster when compared to the loop mode.
So let me quickly show you on how you can enable a device mapper.
So I'm in my CLI and let's quickly do a nano on etsy Docker daemon dot Json.
All right, so within here we'll give a storage driver.
And let's call this as device mapper.
All right.
Now, before we go ahead and restart.
Let's do a Docker info.
So there are a lot of options.
In order to make things easy, you can do a grip on storage and currently you see the storage driver
is overlay two.
Now I'm hoping that you already know that whenever you change a storage driver, all of your containers,
all of your images would be inaccessible.
So let's do a Docker images.
So currently there are no images.
Let's pull a one sample image, I'll call it as BusyBox and I'll also create a new container from this.
I'll name the container as BusyBox itself, and we'll create it from the BusyBox image.
All right, So if you do a Docker, PS, you have the BusyBox container and you also have the BusyBox
image here.
Now, this container and this image is associated with the storage driver.
Now, we have already seen that currently the storage driver that is being used is overlay two.
Now, if the storage driver changes, then the container and the images would be inaccessible.
So now that we have added the entry in the daemon dot Json, let's go ahead and restart the Docker.
So I'll say systemctl, restart Docker.
So now if you do a Systemctl status on Docker, the Docker is up and running and if you do a Docker
info you see below, it basically gives you a warning that the device mapper storage driver is deprecated
and will be removed in the future release.
And it also is giving a warning that a device mapper usage of loopback device is strongly discouraged
and it should not be used for production use basically.
So basically when you enable device mapper directly, it makes use of the loopback device, which is
strongly discouraged.
Now you can also specify a custom block storage device in case you intend to.
So basically, if you look here, ultimately you have a logical device because this logical device in
turn is associated with the back end block device.
So you can even specify the back end storage that should be used.
So one important part to remember, as we also saw in the warning, that device mapper storage driver
is something that should be preferred at the last.
It should not be preferred because the storage driver would be deprecated and if you are planning to
use it, then make use of direct mode and not the loop LVM.
So that's the high level overview about the device mapper.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Logging Drivers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the Docker logging drivers.
Now, typically in a Linux or Unix subsystem, whenever you run a Unix and Linux command, they open
up three input output streams.
Now these are referred as standard input.
You have standard output and you have standard error.
And similar applies for the Docker containers that you are running.
So let's say you have running certain Docker containers.
Now these would have a standard input.
It will also have a standard output.
It will also have a standard error.
Now if you remember during the earlier videos where we were discussing about the importance of the IT
flag, now generally in Docker we specify the hyphen I and hyphen T flag so that your terminal basically
attaches to the standard input.
So standard input is where you would provide the input to this specific process or the command.
So you have a bash where you can specify some input like command or a CD command.
So that input can come from various sources like keyboard.
So that is what standard input is.
Now standard output is where, let's say let's take an example of Enginex now.
So Nginx can have a lot of access logs within its standard output.
So those access logs, so you have let's assume you have Nginx running on port 80 and 100 people are
connecting to your Nginx so those logs nginx can share it to the standard output.
You also have standard error where you have error related logs that can be present over here.
So Docker allows you to monitor the standard output as well as the standard error with the help of various
type of logging drivers.
Because many times it is important for you to see what is the standard output data, what is the standard
error data?
So those can be achieved with the help of logging driver.
So let's quickly understand this with a quick practical demo.
So I'm in my class if I quickly do a docker.
PS Currently we do not have any container up and running, so let's quickly start a container.
I'll say Docker container run, I'll specify hyphen D, I'll say name as my BusyBox.
I'll start it from the BusyBox image and we'll run the command called as ping on Google.com.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that you have a container and the command
which is constantly running is ping, google.com.
So this output of this specific command, which is running this output, it can share it to the standard
output.
So if you want to see a standard output or even a standard error associated with this specific container,
you can make use of the Docker logs command.
So you can see Docker logs.
My busy box.
And now you see, you are able to see the output of the command which is running, which is it is able
to get the reply associated with Google.com server.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what the Docker logs command does.
Docker Logs command allows you to get the standard output as well as the standard error associated with
the container.
Now there are a lot of type of logging drivers because if you if you remember, if when we had pressed
the Docker logs.
So this should be stored in some kind of a file, let's say you might want to send it in a centralized
location.
So depending upon your requirement, you can make use of certain logging drivers which are available
in Docker.
So if you basically do a Docker info command within the log here, you see there are various type of
logging drivers.
You have logs, you have fluentd, you have GCP logs, you have journaled Json file, local Splunk syslog
and various others.
So these are the types of logging drivers which are available for the Docker.
Now, depending upon the requirement, let's say that you want to send all the logs for Docker.
Let's say you have something similar to the demo that we did.
We are doing a ping on google.com and you want to send all of those standard output logs to the AWS
Cloudwatch service.
So then you can make use of the logging driver of logs.
If you want to send it to a splunk instance, you can use the Splunk driver.
If you want to send it to syslog, you can use a syslog driver and various others.
Now typically if you quickly do a Docker info and let's grep on logging driver, you would see that
there will be one logging driver which is the default one.
So in this case the logging driver, which is the default one is Json hyphen file.
So anytime when you create a container and you do not specify a logging driver by default, Docker will
associate the Json hyphen file logging driver with your container so we can even find it out.
So if you do a Docker inspect on my BusyBox, let's do that and let's go a bit up.
So here you will see within the log config you have the type as Json hyphen file.
Now along with that, one important part to remember is because we are making use of the Docker logs
command.
Let's open this up.
So all of these data that you see over here, it gets stored in a file.
So in case if you want to see on which file all of the logs are being stored, you can do it with Docker
inspect.
So if you go a bit up, you will see that there is a log path over here and this is the log path where
all of the logs are getting stored.
So let's copy this log path and if you do a less here, you will be able to see all of the logs.
Now these are within the Json format, but these are the logs which are being shown from when you do
a Docker log.
So all of these logs are being stored in this specific directory.
Now along with that, let's quickly do a Docker.
PS Let's assume that you want to create new container with a different logging driver.
That is something that you will be able to do.
So let's try it out.
I'll say Docker container run.
You can specify the log driver.
I'll specify none over here.
All right.
I'll start from BusyBox image and we can do a ping on google.com.
Now if you do a docker, PS this time you have a log driver of none.
So basically this will not really capture the standard output as well as standard error.
Now if you do a docker logs on my custom.
It basically says that error response from daemon configured logging driver does not support reading.
So depending upon the logging driver that you choose, the amount of configuration which is required
would differ.
Now a few important details that you need to remember.
The first is that there are a lot of logging drivers which are available in Docker.
We have already seen now some of these logging driver includes you have Json file, you have none,
you have syslog, you have local, you have journaled Splunk logs and there are various others which
are also available.
Now comes the important point that the Docker Logs command is not available for the drivers other than
Json file and journaled.
So when we did a Docker logs command and it basically showed you the entire output.
So the reason why it was able to show you the output because the driver that we were using was of type
Json file.
Now if you are using some custom driver like Splunk, like logs, et cetera, then the Docker logs will
not really show you any output.
So that's about it for the logging driver.
Now do remember that depending upon the logging driver that you choose, there can be certain caveats
that can happen.
So let's say you are choosing a syslog based logging driver and you have a centralized syslog server
and due to some reason your server went down, your centralized syslog server went down, then there
can be a chance that whatever logs that are being shown in the standard output, they will be lost.
So make sure that whichever logging driver that you implement for your environment understand about
the advantages as well as the disadvantages of those logging driver and then only implement them accordingly.
So this is the high level overview about the logging drivers which are available in Docker.
I hope this video has been informative for you and look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating Volumes in Kubernetes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the volumes in the perspective of Docker containers.
However, in today's video, we'll be discussing about volumes in perspective of Kubernetes.
Now, we already know about the two major challenges here.
The first is that on disk files within the containers are ephemeral.
So that basically means that if a container goes down, then the data becomes inaccessible or if a container
gets terminated, then the data is lost.
Now, generally, when the Cubelet finds that there is an unhealthy pod or if your application has crashed,
then your cubelet will basically create a new pod from a clean slate.
So then what happens is that whatever data that you might had within the pod is lost.
So that is the first challenge here.
The second challenge is that whenever there are multiple containers and you want to share the same data,
it becomes a challenge.
So within a pod there can be multiple containers.
And if all of them wants to share a common data, then you need a solution where all of the containers
can access a specific storage device.
Now, we already discussed about this diagram where you have a container and you can do a bind mount
or the file system.
So there is a Docker area which gets created where your container can go ahead and store the persistent
data which will not get lost even if the container is terminated.
You can also have a tmpfs mount, which is basically the data which can be stored in memory.
However, this is not persistent and if your system restarts, then your data is lost.
Now, speaking about volumes in Kubernetes, one of the great advantages of Kubernetes is that it supports
multiple types of volumes.
So let's say that you have a pod and you have connected a volume here.
So this volume need not necessarily be at the host level.
So you can have various other volumes like EBS, you can have Cinder, you have Glusterfs, you can
have local, you can have NFS and so on.
So this is just a small list.
However, the list becomes quite big.
So instead of creating a local volume within the host itself, you can even create a persistent volume
which is highly available.
So in case EBS, EBS also have the availability aspects to it here.
So there is also replication which happens behind the scenes so that your data does not get lost.
Now if you look into the official documentation associated with volumes in Kubernetes, if you look
into the types of volumes here, there are several types of volumes like the EBS, you have Azure disk,
you have Chef FS, you have Cinder CSI and so on.
The amount of flexibility you have in choosing a volume is great, and this is one of the great advantages
here.
So depending upon where you might want to store the data, you can use one of these as a volume which
can be mounted within your pod.
So let's do one thing.
Let's take one example in today's demo so that the concept becomes clear.
Now, within the types of volumes, we will take one simple one, which is the host path.
Now if you look into the description here, a host path volume mounts a file or directory from the host
node's file system into your pod.
So what you do, you create a file or a directory within your host system and you mount that as a volume
within your pod.
So whenever a data in the pod is stored, it gets stored within the specific volume within the host.
Now I'm in my terminal here and basically we have a mini cube installation which is currently available.
Now the reason why we are using Mini Cube and not Digitalocean here is because Digitalocean does not
really give access to the underlying host.
And for today's demo we need an underlying host so that we can have a better clarity.
So here we have a file called as pod hyphen volume dot Yaml and within the first section which is highlighted
here is a simple definition which is basically used to create a pod.
However, you also have a second section here which is associated with volumes.
Now let's look into the the volume section here.
First thing that you are giving is you are giving the name of the volume.
So if you look into this diagram, what you do is first you give the name of the specific volume.
So in this case, the name of the volume is first volume.
Then the next thing is you define the type of volume that you want to use.
In this case it is host path.
But we have seen within the documentation that there are various types of volumes which can be used.
However, for simplicity, we are making use of host path in today's demo.
Now, after you have defined the type of volume, then there are certain configurations which are associated
with it.
Now, since we know that host path basically mounts a specific file or directory within the host inside
a container.
So we specify.
Via path and the path is slash mydata.
And we also tell a type the type is directory.
So this path that we want to mount inside the container is of a directory type.
So this is the path which is present within the host where pods would be running.
Then once you have defined this, then the next important part is the volume mounts.
What volume mount does is that it says that you take this specific volume, which is first volume.
So you see within the volume you have first volume.
So this volume mount is associated with the first volume and then you specify the mount path.
So where exactly this directory from, the host should be mounted inside the container.
So in this case, we have said that it should be mounted under the slash data directory.
So let's try it out so that we have a better clarity.
Now the first thing that you have to do is you have to create a directory called as My Data.
Now, once you have done that, you can go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl apply on pod hyphen volume dot yaml.
Now once you have your pod created you can quickly do a cube Ctl on get pods and currently you have
one pod which is in the running state.
So let's go ahead and do a exec into demo pod.
And since we have defined within the pod hyphen volume dot yaml file that the directory of the host
should be mounted in a slash data partition.
So currently you see that you already have a slash data which is created automatically and within this
directory, whenever you create a file, let's call it as CP labs dot txt and let's do echo of hi on
this specific file.
So this file, in fact this specific directory is mounted from the host inside the container.
So if you do a DF hyphen edge here, you will see that there is a mounted on within the mounted on.
You have a slash data partition which is currently mounted inside the container.
So let's exit it out.
And if you might have seen that we are basically mounting this directory within the host inside a slash
data directory, inside the container.
So whatever files that you store inside slash data, those files will underlyingly be stored in the
slash my data of the host.
So since we have created a file called as CP labs dot txt under slash data inside the container, ultimately
behind the scenes that file would have been created in slash my data of the host.
So let's try it out.
So I'll do a slash my data and if you do an LS, you will see that you have a CP labs dot txt file which
is available.
And if you do a cat on CP labs dot txt you have the same message which we had created within the container.
So that's the high level overview about the volumes within the Kubernetes.
Now in today's video we took an example of the host path as a volume.
However, if you want to make use of say, EBS, then it is also straightforward.
So instead of host path mentioning within the Yaml file, you can specify the EBS and its associated
configurations.
So that's the overview about today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the persistent volume and persistent volume claim.
Now, generally in the development environment, staging environment, the developers will have to play
around and write their own Yaml files depending upon the pods that they want to create.
Now, in a scenario of volumes that we were discussing in the previous video, what the developer have
to do is that they have to first create a volume of a specific type.
Now we have already seen that there are a lot of type of volumes like you have EBS Center, Glusterfs,
NFS, etcetera.
So the first step is that the developer needs to be aware about a specific type of volume and its associated
configurations.
Now in the previous video we had taken a volume type of host path where we had a path of my data and
the type of directory.
So this is a simple example.
However, when you talk about glusterfs or center, et cetera.
Now developer will have to be aware about those things.
So once they create a volume of this specific type, then they can mount it on their pods.
So this is the basic approach when you directly make use of volumes within your specification files.
Now there are certain challenges here, so let's look into the challenge as far as the developer perspective
is concerned.
So the developer says that I am a developer, I just want to write my code and my pod dot yaml file.
I don't want to take care of storage provisioning and its associated configurations.
So now if let's say organization is making use of a center or a cluster, then developer, since he
has to mention these volumes, basically has to provision these volumes within the pod file.
He has to have a overview about what Glusterfs is, what Cinder is and its associated configurations.
So this is not what developer wants.
All right.
So that's the challenge of a developer.
So now you also have a storage administrator here and he says that he can take care of the provisioning
of storage and it's associated configurations.
So if a volume needs to be created in Glusterfs, then storage administrator will take care of creating
the volumes and its associated configurations.
Now the only thing that the developer has to do is that he has to create a reference to the storage
within the pod spec dot yaml file.
So the storage administrator takes care of creating these volumes part.
And all the developer has to do is he has to reference to that specific volume which the storage administrator
has created.
Now both of these things require a layer of abstraction in between because when you directly make use
of volumes, then the developer will have to do both the things within the Yaml file.
So this level of abstraction can be achieved with the help of persistent volume and persistent volume
claim.
Now a persistent volume also referred as a PV is a piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned
by an administrator or dynamic provisioned using the storage class.
So let's keep it simple that a persistent volume is basically an abstraction for the underlying volume
over here.
So currently within this diagram there are five volumes which are available.
You have volume one, two, three, four and five, and each volume has a certain specification.
So you have a volume one which has a size of small speed of fast.
Similarly, Volume two has a size of medium and speed of fast and so on, because many times what happens
is that within organizations, some developer might need a small volume, but they would need that.
The volume should have a speed of fast.
Some developer needs a very big volume because their application stores a huge amount of data.
So in that case they would need a huge volume.
They don't really care about the speed as long as they are able to write the data.
So typically a storage administrator can create a wide variety of volumes which a developer can use.
So this is referred as a persistent volume.
Now for each volume that is created can be of a different type.
Now we have already seen that within the Kubernetes volumes there are different type of volumes which
are available.
So you can have the first volume, which is basically from the type of EBS.
Second is NFS, third is Glusterfs, you have cinder, etcetera.
So each volume can be of a different type and different type provides a different kind of advantages.
So this provisioning of volumes of different types, different configurations can be taken care by the
storage administrator or the operations team developer do not really have to worry about this.
Now, the second important concept here is the persistent volume claim.
Now a persistent volume claim, also referred as a PVC, is a request for the storage by a user.
So once these volumes are created, a developer would have to request for those volumes.
So that request is referred as a.
Persistent volume claim.
Now, whenever you create a claim, user will have to specify various configurations like the size of
the volume that they need along with the access mode of that specific volume.
So a very simple example which can help you understand the concept is that developer says that I want
a volume of size ten GB, which has a speed of fast for my specific port.
Now if you look into this diagram, there are two volumes which has a speed of fast over here, alright?
And depending upon the storage size which is requested, which is ten GB, the appropriate volume can
be assigned to the port which is being created by the developer.
So this specific configuration where the developer says that I want a specific volume size is referenced
within the persistent volume claim.
So let's look into the overall working steps of PVC and PVC.
First is a storage administrator takes care of creating a persistent volume.
So you have a pool of persistent volumes over here.
So these pools are typically administered by DevOps team or a storage administrator team.
So you have administrator who creates multiple PVC.
So if you see first PVC is of Type NFS, you have iSCSI, you have again NFS, you have GCE.
Now developer needs some of the volumes for its ports, similar to what we were discussing here, that
a developer needs a volume of a specific size for his pod.
So what he'll do is he'll create a claim.
Creating a claim is the first part.
Claim is basically I want a specific type of a persistent volume.
So this is what a developer can raise a claim saying that I want a specific volume of size ten GB So
that can be referred as a claim.
So the second is a developer can raise a claim and depending upon the configurations that he has specified
within a claim like, like I want ten GB.
ET cetera.
A appropriate persistent volume is assigned to that specific claim.
Now, once the claim is created, all that a developer has to do is that he has to reference that claim
within the port spec dot yaml.
So within the pod spec dot yaml file he has to reference to this specific claim and that's about it.
So this is the three overview steps about the PV and PVCs.
So let's jump into the demo so that we have this concept better understood.
Now I'm in my terminal and for today's video we have three files which are available over here.
Now these three files are associated with the three steps that we were discussing in the PPD.
Now the first step is basically to create a persistent volume.
So if you see over here, the first thing is that the persistent volume needs to be created so this
can be taken care by the storage administrator.
Now again, there are various other aspects to it as well, but we'll take it step by step.
Currently, we are keeping it very simple.
So the first step is reference within the file called as PV dot Yaml.
Now if you quickly open PV dot yaml over here, here you will see that the kind is persistent volume.
So a persistent volume is created.
Now you are specifying the size of that volume.
So the size of that volume is ten.
GB So we were discussing here that there can be multiple persistent volume.
Each persistent volume can have a different size.
So here you are referencing to the size.
Then you have the access mode.
We'll be discussing about this later and then you have the volume type over here.
Now the volume type can be various different types of volumes.
So the currently we have used a very simple volume type of that of the host path.
So we were discussing that there can be multiple types of volumes, it can be EBS, NFS, Glusterfs
center host path, etcetera.
So to keep things simple, we have created a volume type of host path and the path that we have specified
is slash temp slash data.
So let's go ahead and create a directory of slash temp slash data.
And once you have done that, you can go ahead and do a kubectl apply on PV dot Yaml.
All right, so it has basically created a persistent volume called as block hyphen PV.
So if you quickly do a kubectl get on PV over here, it says that there is one PV available.
This is the capacity you have, the access modes, etcetera.
So we have done the first step of creating a persistent volume.
All right.
So the first step of creating a persistent volume is created.
Now developer will have to raise a claim to that specific persistent volume, as we were discussing
that there can be hundreds of different persistent volume.
So developer will have to create a claim so that one of the volumes with.
Then your pool can be assigned depending upon the configuration that the developer needs.
So the next file that we have is PVC dot Yaml.
So this is where we are raising a claim.
So this claim can be raised by a developer.
And if you look into the kind, the kind is persistent volume claim and within the resource the developer
has requested for the storage of ten GB.
So this is a simple claim which has been specified over here.
Now along with that, you also have mention of access modes as well as the storage class.
But let's keep it simple for now.
Just remember that a claim of ten GB has been specified here, so let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply
on the PVC dot Yaml.
So this has basically created a claim.
So if you quickly do a kubectl get PVC, you will see that you have one PVC which is created and the
volume which is associated with that PVC is block hyphen, PV.
So if you do a kubectl get PV, you see the claim this specific block device is being claimed by a persistent
volume claim called as PVC.
So this is very similar.
You have created a PVC first, then you have created a claim depending upon the configuration that you
had written within the claim, the claim automatically bounded itself to one of the persistent volume
which matched its configuration.
All right.
So that is the second step.
Third step is that the developer within his podspec file is he has to reference to this specific claim.
So now let's open up the pod hyphen PVC dot yaml and within the pod hyphen pvc dot yaml.
If you see that this specific volume mount section is similar to what we had seen in the video associated
with volumes in Kubernetes.
So I'm sure that you already know what this is.
Then the next thing that is present is the volumes within the volume.
You have the name, which is my hyphen volume, similar to what is referenced over here.
And the only additional thing is the persistent volume claim where the developer basically references
the claim name, which is PVC.
So within here, as we have seen, the developer can create a PVC first.
Once your persistent volume claim has been bounded to developer has to reference to the name of that
specific claim.
All right, so that's about the referencing of PVC within the pod spec.
So now developer can go ahead and do a kubectl apply on pod hyphen PVC dot Yaml.
So this has created a pod.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods, you have one pod which is currently running.
So let's exec into this specific pod here.
And if you do a DF hyphen edge, you will see that there is one specific mount point which is available.
And if you go here, there is no data.
Let's go ahead and create a file called as CP Labs dot txt.
And as we know that this CP labs dot txt would be created in a persistent volume which was referenced
by a claim.
So let's log out over here and if you quickly open up the PV dot yaml, basically this is the path which
is being used to store the data.
Underlyingly.
So let's go to temp data and let's do an LS here.
You will see that a file is automatically created called as CP Labs dot txt.
So that's the high level overview about the working steps associated with the persistent volume and
the persistent volume claim.
I will really encourage you to practice this out within your environment because PV and PVCs are something
that you will be using quite extensively within your production environment, within your Kubernetes
cluster.
So that's about it.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Volume Expansion in Kubernetes ---

Haven.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the basics of volume expansion in Kubernetes.
So let's quickly look into the challenge here so it can happen that your persistent volume has become
full in terms of the data storage capacity and you need to expand the storage for additional capacity.
So this can be better explained with this diagram where you have a PV and the current capacity of your
PV is ten GB and it is completely full.
So at the later stage you might need to provision an additional capacity on top of this.
So this is what is referred as the volume expansion and this is the main aim of today's video.
So there are certain steps that are involved.
If you want to go ahead and expand the volume, the first step is to enable the volume expansion.
Now you have to make sure that a parameter of allow volume expansion is set to true Associate it with
the storage class where your PV is associated with.
So this is one of the very important step.
Now once you have this parameter configured, the second step is to go ahead and perform the resizing
of your PVC, which is the persistent volume claim.
So within the PVC you go ahead and resize it.
So currently it is 15 GB, So if you need ten GB of extra storage, you can modify it to 25 GB.
So once the resizing is completed, third step is to restart the pod.
So you can go ahead and you can do a cube, Ctl delete pod and go ahead and create a new pod from the
manifest if you have that available.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the practical and look into all of these three steps.
So currently for today's video, we have two files that are available.
One is for the persistent volume claim, and second, will go ahead and create a pod with a specific
persistent volume.
Now, first, let's go ahead and look into the storage classes that are available.
So when you do a cube, Ctl get storage class.
So currently this is a digital ocean based Kubernetes cluster.
So there is only one storage class of digital ocean block storage which is available.
So if you look into the provisional, it is associated with the digital ocean.
Now if you go ahead and describe the storage class, let's call it as block storage with the output
of Yaml.
Here.
Let's go a bit up.
So here you see that you have the allow volume expansion is true.
So this is one of the very important thing as part of the first step.
Now, once this volume expansion is true, you have verified that.
Let's go ahead and create a PVC.
So if you want to quickly look into the code associated with the PVC Yaml.
So the name of the PVC is CP Labs hyphen PVC and the storage here is five GB.
So let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply on the PVC dot Yaml.
So our persistent volume claim has been created.
If you quickly do a kubectl get PVC, you will see that you have the PVC that is available and associated
with it.
If you quickly do a kubectl get PV.
So here you will see that you have one persistent volume with a capacity of five GB that is available.
So now let's quickly open up the pod hyphen period dot Yaml.
So here you see that this is a simple pod.
Now the pod is based on the image of BusyBox.
The name of the pod is Storage hyphen pod.
And here you are basically making use of a persistent volume claim.
The name of the persistent volume claim is CP Labs Hyphen PVC and then you are mounting it to the mount
path of data.
So let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply on pod hyphen PV dot yaml.
So our pod is created.
So now let's quickly do a kubectl get pods.
You see that you have one pod that is running and when you quickly describe the storage pod here, you
will see that it was able to successfully attach the volume over here.
So let's go ahead and connect to the pod.
So now if you quickly do a cube, Ctl get pods, let's quickly connect to the pod.
The name of the pod is Storage Pod.
And now here, if you do a DF hyphen h, you will see that within the data volume over here the size
is 4.9 G, which is around five GB of the PV that we have created.
So now the next step is we need to expand this volume.
So let's look into how we can do that.
So when you quickly do a cube, Ctl get PVC here, the capacity is five G.
And if you do a cube, Ctl get PV, the same capacity arises.
So in order to expand the volume, first thing you have to do a cube Ctl edit PVC followed by the name
of PVC, which is CP Labs hyphen PVC.
And within here you can go a bit down and within the storage section you can just modify the capacity.
Let's put ten grams once, then let's go ahead and save the change.
Great.
So our PVC is now edited.
Now if you quickly do a cube, Ctl get PVC followed by CP Labs PVC with the output of Yaml.
Here you will see that there is a message which states that waiting for the user to restart a port to
finish the file system resize of volume on the node.
So in order for the actual resize to happen, you need to go ahead and restart the port.
And even within the time you see the type is file system resize pending.
So if you actually do a cube, Ctl get PV over here, you see that the capacity has been increased to
ten grams.
However, if you quickly exec into the port and if you do a DF hyphen edge within the port, you will
see that it is still 5G.
So let's come out and let's go ahead and delete this specific port once.
Then you can quickly go ahead and create it yet again.
Great.
Let's quickly do a kubectl get pods.
So it is still within the container creating state.
Let's try and run the command again.
So currently it is in the running state.
Let's go ahead and do an exec into storage pod.
And if you quickly do a DF hyphen edge this time you see the capacity has been increased.
So these are the high level steps that are required for the overall volume expansion in Kubernetes.
So with this, we conclude today's video.

--- Document - Volume Expansion Resource ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Reclaim Policy ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the reclaim policy.
Now, the reclaim policy in Kubernetes is responsible for what happens to the data within the persistent
volume when the associated Kubernetes persistent volume claim has been deleted.
So this can be better explained with this diagram where you have the PVC and from this PVC, there is
a PVC which has been initialized.
Now, what exactly happens when you go ahead and remove the PVC over here?
So if you remove the PVC, should the PVC stay?
Or maybe if you remove the PVC, should PV also be deleted?
And so on is something that is defined as part of the reclaim policy.
Now there are three primary types of reclaim policy that we need to be aware of.
First one is retain, second one is delete, and third one is recycle.
So in a retained reclaim policy, whenever the PVC is deleted, the associated PVC still exists and
the volume is considered to be released.
So the actual persistent volume is not deleted.
When you have a reclaim policy of retain, if you have a reclaim policy of delete, then whenever you
go ahead and delete the PVC, the associated persistent volume will also be deleted.
Third one is recycle.
So if this is supported by the overall volume plugin, the Recycle Reclaim policy will perform a basic
scrub.
That means it removes all of the data from a specific volume and makes it available again for a newer
claim.
So just from the basics of the Reclaim policy name, you can identify what exactly this does.
So let me quickly show you a demo on this.
So currently for today's demo we have a file called as PVC dot Yaml and this is basically a persistent
volume claim and the storage is five GB.
Now let's go ahead and do an apply on this specific file.
So it states that the persistent volume claim with the name of PVC has been created.
So if you quickly do a kubectl get PVC, oops, a small typo over here.
So this is the PVC that is available and associated with that.
They'll also be a persistent volume.
So this is the persistent volume.
Now, if you look into the volume, the size is five, and there is also an associated reclaim policy.
And the reclaim policy that is associated with it is delete.
So that basically means that if you go ahead and delete this PVC, the associated PVC will also be removed.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So when you quickly do a cube, Ctl delete PVC followed by the name of the PVC, which is PVC.
So it states that our persistent volume claim has been deleted.
Now, if you quickly do a cube Ctl get PV, you will see that even the PV has been removed.
So with this, I hope you understood at a high level overview about the basics of reclaim policy.
In today's video, we looked into how if the reclaim policy is delete, then whenever the PVC is removed
associated with it, the PV will also be deleted.

--- Understanding Retain Reclaim Policy ---

Hey, Edwin, and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the basics of reclaim policy.
We looked at a high level overview about the three primary types of Reclaim policy with a small demo
on how a delete reclaim policy would work.
So in today's video, our primary focus would be towards the reclaim policy of Retain, and we'll understand
it in more detail.
So in a retain policy, whenever a persistent volume claim is deleted, the associated persistent volume
will still exist and the volume is considered as released.
So if you look into this diagram associated with this specific PV, under the Reclaim policy, it is
retained and under the status it is released.
So this would mean that the PVC associated with this PV was deleted.
So do note that in this status of release, it is not yet available for another claim because the previous
claims data remains to be within this volume.
So it can happen that the data which was associated with this is still existent.
So if you try to reclaim it with another PVC, you will not be able to do it directly.
So there are certain steps for reclamation that we need to know at a very high level.
Overview so an administrator can manually reclaim the volume with the following steps.
So when you discuss about reclaiming the volume, it is associated with the volume in the release state.
So first one is you can go ahead and delete the persistent volume.
So do note that if you delete this persistent volume, the associated storage asset in an external infrastructure
may be if it is a EBS or a GCE or even an Azure disk will continue to exist after the PV is deleted,
we'll just look into it in the demo perspective as well so that we have a better clarity.
Second is, once you have deleted the persistent volume, since we know that the underlying disk associated
with it still continue to exist, you can manually clean up the data on that associated storage accordingly
and then you can either manually delete the associated storage asset or if you want to reuse it, the
same storage, you can go ahead and create a persistent volume with the same asset definition.
So let's quickly jump into the quick demo so that the steps can be better understood.
So for today's video, again, we have a file called as PVC dot Yaml, which goes ahead and creates
a persistent volume claim with a storage of five GB.
So let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply on this specific file.
So the PVC is created.
So let's quickly do a kubectl get PVC.
So the PVC, the status is bound and similarly let's do a kubectl get PV.
So as we know, the PVC is created now, the reclaim policy is delete.
So at this stage we know that if we delete this PVC, the associated PV will also be removed.
So you can go ahead and modify the reclaim policy if you intend to.
In fact, let's quickly do that.
So I'll do a cube Ctl edit PV, Let's copy the name of this PV, I'll paste it and let's press enter.
So within here, let's go a bit down.
So within here you have a persistent volume reclaim policy and the reclaim policy is delete.
So let's go ahead and modify this.
Let's change it to retain.
I'll go ahead and save this.
That's great.
So now if you do a kubectl get PV, you see the reclaim policy has been changed from delete to retain.
So now let's go ahead and try deleting the PVC through which our PV was associated with.
So our PVC is deleted.
Now, if you do a kubectl get PV, you will see that our PV is still existing and the reclaim policy
is retained and the status is released.
So that basically means that there can be certain amount of data that might be associated with this
specific persistent volume.
Now, along with that, I also have one more file called as PVC hyphen pv dot Yaml.
This is basically a persistent volume claim file and within here there is an option of volume name.
So what you can do is you can manually specify the name of your persistent volume over here and this
PVC will be associated with that persistent volume.
So let's go ahead and quickly get the name associated with that PV.
So this is the name.
Let's copy this up and let's try and paste it over here.
Great.
I'll save this and let's go ahead and do a apply.
On this file.
So here it states that the PVC is created.
Now, if you quickly do a cube, Ctl get PVC, you will see that the status is pending and the capacity
is zero.
So even after some amount of time you will refresh, you will see that it is always on the pending state,
primarily because the PV that is being associated is still in the release state and there is a claim
that is associated with this PV.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and do an edit of this PV yet again.
So I'll edit this.
And here you have a section of claim reference and this claim reference was associated with the previous
PVC that we had created and also deleted.
So let's go ahead and remove the claim reference completely from the PV over here once.
Then I'll go ahead and save this.
So now if you quickly do Cube Ctl get PVC.
You see, the status automatically went from pending to bound.
And in a similar way, if you do a kubectl get PV, even the status went from released to the bound
state.
So this is one important part to remember.
One more thing that I wanted to show you.
Let's quickly go ahead and delete the PVC over here.
So we already know that if we delete the PVC, the status of the associated PVC would be released.
Let's quickly verify.
As expected, it is released.
So similar to what we were discussing in the first pointer over here, which states that if you delete
the persistent volume, the associated storage asset in an external infrastructure will continue to
exist even after the PV is deleted.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll say kubectl delete PV, Let's go ahead and specify the name of the PV.
So it states that a persistent volume is deleted.
Let's do a kubectl get PV, and currently it states that no resource is found.
Now from the digital ocean environment, when you go to volumes here, you see that the PVC is still
available within the digital ocean environment and this is what the first point refers to.
So you can go ahead and manually clean up the data on that associated storage asset accordingly.
So that's the high level overview about the written reclaim policy.

--- Document - Retail Reclaim Resource ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Storage Class ---

Hey, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the storage classes.
Now, a storage class provides a way for administrator to describe the class of storage they offer.
Now there can be different classes of storage, and each class might have a different level of quality
or different configuration by itself.
So if you look into this sample diagram, there are multiple classes of storage over here.
One is standard storage.
You can have premium storage and so on.
So depending upon this, a persistent volume might fetch the storage from a premium storage or it might
fetch it from the standard storage as well.
So the type of disk that is needed can be defined within the storage class.
Now if you look into the sample code associated with a persistent volume claim here, you can define
a storage class name.
So in this case, the storage class name is managed premium.
So in such case, depending upon the storage class configuration, the premium disk can be assigned
and whatever persistent volume that will be created, it would be much more faster when compared to
the standard storage.
So that is the basic idea behind this.
Now, when you discuss about the storage class resource by itself, do remember that every storage class
contains the field of provisioner, the parameter as well as the associated reclaim policy, which are
used by the persistent volume that are being associated with the storage class.
So if you look into this sample code, you have the kind of storage class.
Now here you have a provisioner of EBS.
Now here you also have a reclaim policy of retain.
You have certain options of allow volume expansion of true over here.
So depending upon the provisioner that is been associated with the storage class.
So in this case the provisioner is the EBS volume.
However, there can be multiple different type of volumes that can be associated under the provisional
like elastic block store.
You have Azure file, local storage OS, Glusterfs and so many others.
So depending upon the volume that you need, you can associate a appropriate volume plugin.
So let's quickly have a demo on this.
So currently if you quickly do a cube, Ctl get storage class.
Depending upon the environment, there will be a single or you can also have multiple storage classes.
So in a digital ocean based cluster you have one storage class and if you see it is a default one.
So what happens here is that within the PVC, if you do not specify a storage class, this one will
be used.
So let's quickly look into what exactly this has to offer.
Now, if you look into the configuration here, the kind here is storage class.
There are various configuration options like allow volume expansion as true.
Now if you go a bit down, you will see within the provisional you have the CSI or Digitalocean.
So this basically allows you to create the volumes in Digitalocean.
You also have a reclaim policy of delete and so on.
So within the PV, depending upon the configuration, these options would be applied.
So in case you have multiple storage class, let's assume you have one storage class for premium, one
storage class for standard, and for the PVC, you want to request the premium storage class.
So within the storage class name, you can specify the name of the storage class or tomorrow for a different
application, you need a standard disk so you can change the storage class name here from managed premium
to maybe manage standard.
So that's the high level overview about the storage classes and I hope this video has been informative
for you.

--- Our Community ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of DCA  & Exam Experience ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So we are in the final section of our certification video course.
So in today's video, we'll look into the overview of the Docker Certified Associate exam.
I'll be sharing my exam experience and certain important tips that you need to remember before you sit
for the exams.
Now, the Docker Certified Associate exam is remotely proctored on your Windows or Mac computer.
So that basically means is that you can go ahead and give the exams while sitting at home.
However, there will be a proctor who will be assessing you throughout the exams.
So you will have to enable your camera and you will have to enable your microphone.
So during your exams, do remember that you need to have a Windows or Mac.
There are certain people who try to do the virtualization aspect, so basically if they have Linux and
they try to install Windows Virtual Machine inside Linux and try to do those hacky things.
So, so avoid those aspects.
Make sure that you have Windows or Mac computer with camera and microphone.
So once you have done that, the exams will have a total of 55 multiple choice questions and you will
have to attempt it within 90 minutes.
Now the questions are quite small, so when you compare it with the exams like DevOps professional,
where you have a one page question compared to that, the exam questions are very small, so 90 minutes
is more than enough.
If you have prepared well, you will be able to do it within maximum of 30 minutes.
Now, third important point is the examination fee, which is US dollar 195 or Euro 175 when you purchase
online directly through Docker.
So the fourth important point is that results are delivered immediately.
So after you go ahead and submit your last question, you will immediately get your results.
So that is one important part.
However, you will not officially get the certificate.
Certificate generation takes around 48 business hours.
So for you to get your certificate, it will take time, but you will at least know whether you have
cleared your exams or not.
And the last very important point is that keep your official identity card ready and be alone in the
room.
So before you go ahead and sit for the exams, the proctor will ask you to show your identity card.
And also you have to be alone in the room.
That is one of the requirements now for alone in the room.
Basically, Proctor will ask you to rotate your camera throughout the room.
He will ask you to show your work desk.
He'll ask you to show your room and so on.
So you have to be prepared to do that.
Now, in that case, in fact, let me show you.
So let's say that you are the proctor.
So how will I show my room?
Basically, first thing that Proctor will do is he'll ask you to show the desk.
So I'll say that, Hey, this is my desk and you have to make sure that there are no books here.
Then he'll ask you to show your room.
So if you see, this is my room here.
And basically, if you see here that I have certain pages here.
So if you see, I hope you are able to see.
So I have certain things which are written over here.
So in case if you have such kind of a room, make sure that you change your room in such a way that
there are no books and there are no kind of stickers which are attached to your walls.
So with the basic things discussed, let's go ahead and look into how you can register for the exams
and what are the process which are involved.
So I will my Google and let's quickly do a Docker study guide here.
So the first URL, which is success dot docker.com slash certification, this is something that we are
interested in.
Now you can go ahead and read about the things in detail.
So we already discussed that it requires that there are total of 55 multiple choice questions and the
duration is 90 minutes.
So you can go ahead and see these things in detail.
Make sure that you also look into the requirements about the operating system here.
So it basically says that unfortunately Linux is not supported.
So you have to make sure that your operating system is either Windows or Mac.
Now there is also a web browser requirement and also a requirement related to the Internet connection.
Now the first thing that you will have to do, let's say you want to schedule your exam so you can go
ahead and click on schedule your exam here.
So you will have to give your username and password.
In my case I already have it, so in case you have not registered, you can go ahead and register by
clicking on the click here button.
So I'll put my username and password and this is how your dashboard looks like.
Now if you want to schedule your exam, you have to click here on schedule, your exam here, let's
click here.
So in this case, you have to select the course.
In our case it is Docker certification and the exam name is Docker Certified Associate.
So now you will have various time slots.
So make sure you select the time slots according to your availability.
So there are a lot of time slots now.
Great thing is that you can go ahead and give your exams by sitting at your home.
So this is a great thing so you can give your time slots accordingly.
So once you select your time slots, you can go ahead and schedule your exam accordingly and complete
the payment.
Now, in case, let's go back to the dashboard.
Now when you click on Begin Schedule exam.
So here you will basically get a link for computer requirements Check.
Now this is very important because here they will show you whether your current computer configuration
is good enough for your examination check to happen.
So in my case it is showing webcam is ready, microphone is ready.
I'm using Windows 10, I'm using the browser which is Google Chrome and internet speed.
It is checking.
However, it will go ahead and succeed.
Now, in case if you have any questions related to exams, not related to what are the questions that
will be asked, but any questions related to what happens if the electricity goes off?
ET cetera.
You can either do a email support or you can click on live chat and you can go ahead and ask them the
questions.
Now, in my case, I had asked a question on what happens if the Internet goes down, because in the
place that I live in, we have frequent power cut and due to which the internet disconnects sometimes.
So in that case, let's say if the internet disconnects, then the proctor will call you immediately.
So make sure that whatever email address and whatever phone number that you might have supplied during
the registration process, they are correct and they are available.
So that is very important because if your Internet disconnects, Proctor will call you and he'll ask
you to reconnect back immediately.
If you have any other specific questions, you can go ahead and do a live chat or you can even email
them.
So here you see it says that the internet speed currently is acceptable and everything is working perfectly.
So in this case you are ready to go ahead and give your exams.
So let's go ahead and go back.
So one important part to remember before you sit for the exams is the things that you give in the security
questions.
So while you register for this account, you have to give certain questions like your username, your
first name, your last name, your phone number, etcetera.
And there can be certain secret questions like when did you meet your spouse?
So those things will be asked during the exam registration process.
So make sure you remember them if you have given them during the registration process.
Now, as we discussed, after you click on submit, after your last question within your exams, you
will immediately get your results.
So this is how the result would look like.
So it will have your first name, last name, and it will also say that congratulations, you have passed
your exams.
Now, before we conclude, let me actually show you on how exactly the initial Proctor meeting might
look like.
So generally, Docker team makes use of Zoom.
So Zoom is a great platform for meeting.
So initially when the proctor wants to verify whether there is no one within the room or there are no
notes near your desk, basically you will have to install this zoom.
So Zoom again, it's a very well known platform, so you can go ahead and download this application
beforehand.
So when you click on share your screen.
So basically the proctor will request you to share your screen.
So you have to click on share the screen, and then you can specify what are the screens that will be
shared.
Now do remember that after you have shared your screen, the proctor will be able to look into your
desktop so he will verify whether you have any applications open, whether you have any notes open,
and he'll ask you to close each and every applications which are currently running.
So currently you see I have a lot of windows which are opened, so he'll ask you to close everything
except the browser through which you will be giving your exam.
So let's say that you will be giving your exam through Google Chrome, so he'll only ask you to have
one tab.
Open in Google Chrome and all the windows should be closed.
So that is one part to remember.
Along with that, make sure that during your exams there is no noise.
Otherwise, Proctor might raise a doubt.
So make sure you sit in a silent room.
Make your mobile silent.
Make sure that there are no nodes near you and you give your exams in perfect silence.
So that's the high level overview about the exam experience.
Now, do remember, let's say that you have scheduled your exam for 1130.
Now, it will take time for Proctor to verify because he'll ask you to rotate your camera.
He'll ask you to share your screen, close unnecessary windows, etcetera.
So it does take 5 or 10 minutes to do that.
Now, in such case, your exam timer will not be counted.
So let's say that your exam schedule is from 1130 and Proctor took around ten minutes to verify if everything
is perfect and your exam starts at 1140.
So your exam timer of 90 minutes will start from 1140.
It will not start from 1130.
So that's the high level overview about the exam experience.
If you have any specific query, go ahead and feel free to email us at instructors at the Rate Labs
dot in.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- New DCA Certification URL ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Important Pointers for Exams ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about the overview of the important pointers for exams.
So in the next few videos, we will have important pointers for exams based videos for every domain.
So in this video we will have a overview on what the upcoming videos are all about and also we'll have
our expectations straight.
Now the exam questions are generally small and you will have more than sufficient time to complete the
exam so you don't really have to worry about time running out.
So when you talk about the exams specifically like the DevOps professional, you will have like a one
full page of a single question.
So it takes like 5 to 7 minutes to just read a single question.
And if you are confused, you will have to reread the entire question.
And it is very challenging there.
However, for the Docker certified associate, it is not so the questions you will see generally small
and you have more than enough time.
Generally most of the people will complete the exam before time.
All right.
Now certain questions can be tricky, so you should have your concepts clear.
Now, first, important point that we should remember that all of the topics of this course are important
for the exams because this course is designed specifically for the Docker Certified Associate Certification.
I have kept all the topics which are relevant to the exams within the course.
So that's the reason why you should make sure that you have completed 100% of the course.
Now the purpose of this section is to not skip the topics of the course and directly jump into this
section and sit for the exams.
This is not the intended purpose.
So the purpose is to make sure that all of your concepts are clear with 100% surety about the topics
which are discussed henceforth.
So the first thing is you have to make sure that you complete all the topics which are part of the course
and then go through the important pointers for the exams and whatever topics that are given within those
sections.
You have to be 100% sure that your concepts are clear there.
All right, so that's the main aim of this section.
So let's discuss about what exactly are the expectations for the upcoming videos.
Now, one important point here is that one topic can span across multiple domains.
We have already seen this, so you can have a single topic and that topic can be across multiple domains.
So in case if you do not see the topic mention in the domain one, it would be mentioned in the other
domain.
So so let's say that you are going through the video, which is important pointers for the domain one
and you do not really see a topic there.
So it can happen that that topic is mentioned in the important pointers for domain three.
So just make sure that you have the understanding straight.
Now, the next important point is that it is challenging to regularly update entire videos when a new
kind of topic is asked for exam.
So let's say that we have recorded a video now and tomorrow you see exam is trying to ask a new kind
of a topic.
So it's challenging to regularly just update the entire videos just for a new topic.
And this is the reason why.
What I'll do is I have created a document called as Updated Pointers, which has a list of all of those
topics which are not covered in other important pointers for exams videos, but are important for exam.
So just go through this document.
This is a text document where you will see such important topics.
Now along with that, make sure you complete the exam preparation quiz that I have created.
Make sure you complete this and for 100% surety you understand each and every question, which is part
of this quiz.
So yes, that's about it.
So once you complete your exam, as we already discussed, you will have this message, which is congratulations,
you have passed this exam.
You will have your first name, last name, email and company if you would have specified results will
take a little amount of time.
It generally takes one week to be delivered within your email.
It might go into your spam, so make sure you also check your spam folder for this.
So that's the high level overview about the important pointers for exam videos that are going to come
after this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of DOMC Questions ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, which in fact is one of the most requested videos around, we'll be discussing
about the DMC equations, which are part of the new certification exam.
So let's go ahead and discuss more about it.
Now in the new Docker Certified Associate exam, the question formats are based on both the DMC, which
are the discrete option, multiple choice and the multiple choice based question.
So earlier in the previous exam you just had a multiple choice, but now the DMC is a preferred type
of question that they are including.
So if you look into the number of questions in total, you will have 42 number of equations and only
13 number of multiple choice questions.
Now again, this number might vary a little, but this is something that you can always check from the
official blueprint.
So currently I am in the Docker certification page and if you look into the exam details, it has 13
multiple choice and 42 DMC based questions.
So we need to be very thorough associated with what exactly this equations are and how we can go ahead
and crack them.
Now the DMC basically stands for discrete option, multiple choice, and there are various variations
of DMC questions that you can see within the exam.
First one is that you can be presented with only a single option, correct or incorrect, and then scoring
the test item based on that, you can also be required to have more than one yes response to a correct
option.
So it can happen that the exam question will have multiple correct response that you will have to choose
accordingly.
Now you can also be presented with one or more non scored options after the item has been scored.
So this is also an interesting one.
And also you can have a increasing the number of correct and incorrect options as you go.
So let's do one thing before we go ahead and look into how we can crack them.
Let's see on how exactly the DMC equation looks like.
So let's go to the certification page and let's open up the study guide.
And if you go a bit down, in fact, in the latest study guide, they have started to include the question
based format in the earlier study guide.
Even though the exam had the the sample test question were not according to that.
So let's take an example of one among them.
So the question one states that which command places an image into registry.
Now, after you see this question within the answer set, you can see five options.
Now, again, all the five options will not be shown to you at once.
You will only be seeing one option at a time.
So the first option is Docker commit.
So you either do a yes or a no.
Then after doing a yes or no, then you will see a second option.
Then again, you do a yes or no.
You see a third option, you do a yes or no, and so on.
Now also note that among the five it can happen that two of them are true and three of them are false.
So it is not that if first one is true, second one cannot be true.
So this is something that you have to take care of.
And similar to this, there are multiple questions.
So one is the OMC ones and second one are the multiple choice.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly have a practical into how the OMC questions would really look like.
So currently I am in the website which provides the OMC based questions.
So let's quickly open up the sample test over here.
I will also be pasting the link to this website after this video so you can try it out.
So let's do one among them and let's begin the test now.
Here you see that you have a question Which states, what were the Pentagon Papers?
And now you have a specific series of answers similar to what we are discussing.
You will see a question, something similar to this.
And as part of the option, you can see a Docker commit.
In this case, you see this as an option.
So whether this is yes or no is something that you have to select.
So let's select.
No.
Now after you selected.
No.
You see, one more option has come.
Now this is very similar.
After you selected.
No, for the first option.
Then the second option came off Docker tag.
So you can do a yes and then the question changes.
So it is not necessary that every time you will see five options over here, but the scenario remains
something similar to what we were discussing over here.
So generally whenever you sit for the exams, what would happen is the first 42 questions that you will
see.
So the first set of questions would typically be a OMC ones, and once you complete all the OMC ones,
you will be presented with the McQ, which are the last 13 questions.
Again, this format might be a little different, maybe at a later stage, but this is something that
you can expect in the exams.
Now let's go ahead and discuss into how we can approach a OMC based questions.
Now, one very important part to remember here is that if your concept related to the topic is clear,
then the OMC based questions would be easier to answer.
And this is something that I stress even for the certifications which are completely multiple choice.
So for example, the approach that I use for the multiple choice based exams, like after reading the
question, before reading any of the answers that are part of the multiple choice, I try to figure
out the correct answer.
And once I know that this is the correct answer for this question, then I match that answer with the
multiple choice that are present within the question.
And this is the approach that I personally take.
So even if you take that specific approach where even before seeing the answer, you know what the answer
would be for that specific question.
The OMC is something that you can easily clear.
So make a habit of calculating the answer for a specific question before reading any options for multiple
choice.
So this is one important part.
So let's do one thing.
Let's take an example of the first question.
Which states, which command places an image into registry?
Now, before seeing any of the option over here, try to guess what is the correct answer.
So what is the answer which pushes the image from your workstation to a specific registry.
So that would be Docker push.
So in that case, you can easily figure out which one would be the right answer.
So the first one you can do no second one you do or no third one would be yes, fourth one would be
no, fifth one would be no.
So this is something that you should practice for the questions that we have as part of the course.
All right.
So I hope at a high level overview, you understood the way in which you can approach the OMC questions.
So what I will really suggest is that since we have a lot of practice tests that are available as part
of the course, which has close to around 250 questions, you can try and follow this specific approach.
Again, this might not be applicable for certain amount of questions, but for a lot.
Tell them you can go ahead and practice this before you sit for the exams.
Now, one of the question that comes is, can we have a OMC based questions as part of the course?
And the answer is not so good news here.
So basically the OMC questions are patented and a license is needed to use them in quiz test or even
the exams.
And since a very few exams they make use of OMC, not a lot of platforms are supported, including the
current platform where you are seeing the video.
And this is one of the reasons why I will really suggest you to follow the tip that we are discussing
in the previous slide where you calculate the answer just after reading the question.
Now also before we conclude, one very important part to remember is that you cannot modify the answers
of a OMC question after you have selected them so you can consider them to be immutable.
This is very important part to remember.
So before you select yes or no, just read it 2 or 3 times because you will not be able to edit it at
a later stage.
So that's the high level overview about the OMC questions.
Now I will really encourage you to go ahead and try out all the questions that we have as part of the
practice test within the course.
They are very important.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Note ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 1 ---

Hey Ryan, and welcome to the first part of the important pointers for the Docker Certified Associate
Certification.
So let's get started.
Now the first important pointer for today's video is that you should be very thorough on how you can
go ahead and create a swarm service.
So make sure that you remember this command, which is Docker service create, followed by the name
of the service, the amount of replicas and the image.
The next important point is that you should know the difference between a replicated and a global service.
So a replicated service will have n number of containers which are defined within the replica flag.
So the above command that we have discussed in point number one, this is a replica based service.
So here we are specifying the replica.
So that's the replicated service.
Second one is the global service, which will go ahead and create one container in every node of a cluster.
So one classic example is let's assume that you want to have a antivirus container in all the nodes.
So in such cases you will make use of a global service.
The next important point is that you need to be aware on the multiple approaches that are used to scale
a swarm service.
So first is Docker service scale, followed by the name of service and the amount of replicas.
Second is Docker service update, followed by the replicas and the name of the service.
So you should be very thorough with both of these.
And also you should know the difference between both of them.
Now the first one, which is the Docker service scale, allows you to specify multiple services in the
same command.
So here, apart from my web server, is equal to five.
You can also add one more service and many more.
However, for the second command, which is the Docker service update, it only allows you to specify
one service per command.
The next important point is associated with draining a swamp node.
So make sure you know how you can drain a swarm node.
So the command is Docker node update followed by the availability of drain, followed by the node name,
which is Swarm zero three.
Again, after draining once your maintenance has completed, if you want the containers to be scheduled
in that node, you can change that availability from drain to active and the containers can be scheduled
here.
Apart from that, make sure you understand the use case of Docker Stack CLI and where it can be used
and also the associated commands.
So you have Docker stack deploy followed by the compose file and the name of the compose file which
is Docker compose dot Yaml.
This is very important for you to remember.
Now the next important point is associated with the placement constraints.
So in placement constraints, depending upon the label that you associate it with a node, a task can
be scheduled or not.
So here you go ahead and you create a service which is Docker service create followed by the name of
the service, and you also add a constraint which is node label dot region is equal to is equal to Bangalore.
So what will happen is this specific service will be created on the node which has this specific label.
Now in the second scenario, you are also having node dot label dot region, which is not equal to Bangalore.
So in the second case the service will be created on a node which does not have a label of Bangalore.
Now also do note on how you can add a label to a node, so you have Docker node update followed by the
label hyphen add.
Then you specify the key value, which is region is equal to Mumbai and the worker node ID where you
want to associate the label with.
The next important point is associated with the overlay network and the associated security.
So do note that overlay networks allows containers which are across different servers to communicate
with each other.
Now the communication between the containers can be made secured with the help of IPsec Tunnel.
Now do note this specific command, which is Docker network, create hyphen hyphen, opt encrypted,
which basically is a secure overlay network followed by the driver of overlay.
And then you specify the name of overlay network that you intend to create.
So this opt encrypted is very important.
The next important point is associated with the quorum.
So in exams you can be given a specific cluster size and from here you should be able to identify on
what is the associated fault tolerance that can happen.
So remember the formula of N minus one by two, and that will allow you to quickly understand the associated
fault tolerance.
So for any cluster, be it DDR as well as UCP, the minimum amount of cluster size that you should start
with is three, because for three it allows you to have fault tolerance of one.
If you do a cluster size of two, you cannot have any fault.
Tolerance over here.
All right.
So make sure you are able to calculate the appropriate fault tolerance for the given cluster size by
applying the formula.
The next important point is associated with the troubleshooting aspects.
So at a high level overview, you should know the steps that are required to troubleshoot first.
And the very important one is to make use of the Docker System Events command, which provides you the
real time information from your server.
Second is that service deployment would be in pending state.
If Node is drained, then you have service.
Deployment can also be in pending state due to placement constraints if there are any.
And you can also further inspect a task to see the exact information on why it has failed.
The next important point is associated with the Docker stack commands.
Make sure you are familiar with the basic Docker stack commands.
So you have Docker Stack Deploy which deploys a new stack or updates an existing stack.
You have Docker Stack LS, which lists the stacks.
You have Docker Stack PS, which is list the task in a given stack and also Docker Stack services,
which lists the services in the stack.
So among all four of them, the third and the fourth one are very important.
So before sitting for the exams, make sure that you familiarize yourself with the third and the fourth
one specifically.
The next important one is associated with the child commands of a Docker service.
So here we have already discussed in the first slide on how you can go ahead and create a new service
with the help of Docker service Create command.
You should also be aware on how you can inspect a service with Docker service inspect command.
Then, in order to list the task of one or more service, you can make use of Docker service PS command
to update a service.
You have Docker service update and to scale a service.
Again, you have Docker service scale.
So the third, fourth and fifth one are very important.
So make sure that you familiarize yourself with these commands before sitting for the exam.
The next important point is associated with the swarm routing mesh.
So routing mesh basically allows each node of a swarm to accept a connection on a published port for
any service that is running on the swarm, even if there is no container that is running.
So this can be better explained with this diagram where there are three nodes that are available.
However, a container is running only on Node one and Node two.
So you have a published port of 8080 in Node three, Node two and Node one.
So even if a client requests for a port of 880 on the Node three where there are no task running, Node
three will automatically redirect it to a specific node where your containers are running.
So that is what the swarm routing mesh is.
Now, here you have to be very familiar with this specific command, which is Docker service.
Create the name of service, the amount of replica this portion we already know by now, followed by
the published port which is 8080.
So this published port will be published to all the nodes that are part of the swarm and the target
which is 80 where containers are listening.
So you see you have 80 on the container level.
So what will happen is any request that is being made to the published port of a node will be redirected
to the target port of a given container.
So make sure that you are aware of this specific command.
The next important point is associated with updating a image of a swarm service.
This is very important.
So do note that if you want to update an image of a swarm service, you can make use of the following
command, which is Docker Swarm update followed by the image, which is my image, followed by the tag
and the service name.
So this will allow you to update the image of a service.
The next important point associated with Swarm is the concept of manager and worker node.
You should be familiar with this before you sit for the exams.
So the manager node handles the cluster management tasks like scheduling the services and others.
Now RAF implementation is used to maintain a consistent internal state.
So for all the manager you see a internal distributed state store is used for the consistent state.
Now the sole purpose of a worker node is to execute the containers which are being scheduled now.
You can also go ahead and prevent the manager node to schedule the containers.
So to prevent the scheduler from placing a task on the manager node, the availability of a manager
node can be set to drain.
The next important point is associated with Joint Token in Swarm.
So remember that joint tokens are secrets that allows a node to join a swarm.
Now, in terms of joint tokens, there are two primary types of tokens that are available.
One is for the worker role and second one is for the manager role.
So when you type Docker swarm, join token worker, then the swarm will give you the exact token that
a worker node should run and.
If you want a new manager node to join your swarm, you can run Docker Swarm, join hyphen token followed
by the manager.
A manager related command will be given to you, which you can add it as part of the new manager node.
The next important point is that you should know on how you can go ahead and initialize a swarm.
So this command, which is Docker swarm init, will go ahead and initialize the swarm and the location
where you execute this command becomes the manager in the newly created single node swarm.
After a manager is created in a single node swarm, you can then run Docker swarm, join token manager
or Docker swarm.
Join token worker to fetch the tokens associated with either a worker node or a manager node.
So let's discuss a few more miscellaneous pointers related to leaving a Docker swarm cluster.
So do note that if a worker intends to leave a swarm, he can run the Docker swarm Leave Command.
Now you can also make use of hyphen hyphen force option on a manager to remove the manager node from
a swarm.
Now also note that only use the force option in the situation where the swarm will no longer be used
after the manager leaves, such as a single node swarm.
The next important point is associated with the service discovery in Swarm.
Do note that Docker makes use of a embedded DNS to provide a service discovery for the containers running
on a single Docker engine and tasks which are part of Docker Swarm.
So this can be better explained where you have two tasks that are available.
Task one dot Myservice.
Task two dot my service and you have a client over here.
So if a client request for my service over here, then what will happen is the request will go to the
DNS server.
If you see the mapping is stored, you have task one dot.
My service has ten 004.
Then task to my service has ten 005 and so on.
So even the my service has a specific IP, so if a client requests for the DNS of task one dot my service,
then appropriate IP address will be sent back to the client.
So no longer need to remember the IP address.
You can just query by the DNS name.
All right.
So that's what the embedded DNS server means.
Along with that, when you also do a curl.
Now, since Curl is a command which is used with an external domain, which is docker.com, then it
will be forwarded to a external DNS server.
So this is also something that you should know.
Now apart from that, let's discuss few more miscellaneous pointers.
First one is associated with a Docker system DF command.
So do note that this command displays the information regarding the amount of disk space which is being
used by the Docker daemon.
This is very important for you to remember.
Second, miscellaneous pointer is associated with the Docker system events, which allows us to get
the real time events from the server.
Now these events differ per Docker object type, so you have Docker system events and you can also make
use of a filter option to filter events based on certain types.
So in the miscellaneous pointer three, we have various sub pointers here.
First important one is that do note that a Docker D is a persistent process that manages the containers.
Docker uses different binaries for the daemon as well as the client.
And to run a daemon you can make use of a Docker daemon.
Second is that for specifying the configuration option, you can make use of the daemon dot json file.
Now the location of the daemon dot Json file differs based on the operating system.
So for the Linux one it is Docker daemon dot Json and for the Windows one you have programdata docker
config followed by daemon dot Json.
So among your make sure you remember the default location for Linux.
So this specific location is very important.
The next important point is associated with inspecting a specific object.
So here you can make use of a docker container inspect to display a detailed information of one or more
container.
So for example, you get a question on how you can see the volumes that are associated with a given
container.
So in that case, you can make use of a Docker container inspect where you can see the exact volumes
that are associated with the container.
The last important pointer for today's video is the difference between a container and virtual machines.
And yes, this is important for the exams as well.
So make sure that you know, the fundamental difference between a virtual machine and container.
Primary difference is that the container makes use of the host resources, specifically the kernel over
here.
However, for the virtual machine, you will see that virtual machine has their own kernel.
So if you have ten different virtual machines, each virtual machine will have their own kernel and
primary.
For this, the entire size of the VM increases.
However, that is not the case of a container.
So in the case of container, if you see various things like the host operating system is shared among
all the containers that are running on a given host.
So that's the overview about the first part of the important pointers for exams.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 2 ---

Hey everyone, and welcome to the second part of the important pointers for the DCA certification.
In today's video, our primary focus would be in the areas of image creation management and registry.
So let's get started.
Now, the first very important point is that you need to be very thorough with the dockerfile instructions.
So some of the very important instructions are ad copy.
Then work date is also very important.
Env is important, health check is also important.
But apart from that, all the instructions that have been defined in this slide you should be aware
on what exactly these does.
The second important part is you should know the difference between an ad and copy.
So copy allows you to copy files from a local source to a destination.
Now, along with that ad also does the similar thing, but it also provides some extra functionality
so you can go ahead and add things with the help of URL and you also get the extraction capabilities
of a tar files when you are making use of AD apart from that, also know the difference between a cmd
and a entrypoint instruction so a cmd can be overridden.
However, entrypoint cannot be overridden.
The third important pointer is the use case where you should use ad versus wget or curl.
Now, because image size matters using an ad instruction to fetch the packages from a remote URL is
strongly discouraged and you should make use of a curl or w get instead.
So in the first use case you are making use of AD, then you have to separate run instruction.
However, in the second approach you have a single run instruction and you are combining it with multiple
ends to not only use curl for downloading the archive packages, but also using a extract functionality.
So the second one is much more efficient command because here one layer will be created as opposed to
three of the first example.
The next important point is associated with the Workdir instruction.
So the Workdir instruction sets the working directory for any run cmd Entrypoint copy and add instruction
that follows it within the dockerfile.
So this is a sample snippet that you need to be aware of.
So let's assume that you have a work date of slash a then work date of B work date of C, followed by
a run of PWD, which is a present working directory.
So the output of it would be slash A slash B slash C.
So this is one very important use case that you need to be aware of.
The next important point is associated with the format option.
So the format option allows you to format the output based on various criterias that we have defined
within the command.
So for example, here you have a Docker images, you are formatting it by ID and repository.
So the first thing that you will see is the ID followed by the repository and similar.
So depending upon the output that you need, you can format it accordingly.
The next important point is associated with the filter option.
So filter option allows you to filter output based on certain condition that is provided.
So some example use cases is show all the dangling images or show all the images which are created after
an image, or maybe show all the containers which are in the exited stage.
So in such cases, filter option can be used.
The next important point is associated with accessing insecure Docker registry.
So by default, Docker will not allow you to perform operations on any insecure registry.
So in such cases, if you want to override it, you can add a stanza in the Docker daemon dot Json file
and this is the stanza which is the insecure registry followed by the DNS and the port of that registry.
So in this case my registry domain dot com followed by the appropriate port.
Now the next important point is on how you can go ahead and push a image to a private repository.
So in order to do that, you will have to tag the image according to the DNS and the tag.
So let's assume that your private registry DNS is example.com and you want to push the image to this
specific registry.
So what you can do is you can do a docker tag followed by the image name which is Ubuntu latest followed
by the DNS of the registry, which is example.com and the repository followed by the tag.
Now the next important point is associated with how you can log in to a specific repository.
Remember that if you want to log in you can make use of docker login followed by the DNS and followed
by that you'll have to supply the username and password.
Now along with that, also remember that you can go ahead and search the images with the help of Docker
search command so you can do Docker search followed by Nginx and it will give you the list.
Of all the images which are of engineers.
Now, you can also make use of Docker search engines and you can also make use of a filter to filter
only the official images that are available.
The next important point is associated with how you can move an image across multiple hosts.
So in here you have to make sure that you remember the command of Docker Save and Docker Load.
So Docker Save Command will basically save one or more image to a tar archive.
So here you are saving a image of BusyBox to a archive call as BusyBox dot tar.
Now once you have the tar, you can go ahead and send a tar or maybe a pendrive email or another communication
medium and from the remote host In order to load a image from the tar archive, you can make use of
Docker load followed by the BusyBox dot tar and you will have the image available.
The next important point is associated with the container management aspects.
So remember that the Docker commit can be used to save the current state of a container to an image.
So you have Docker commit followed by the container ID, and then you have the image which is container
hyphen image with the tag of version two.
So whatever container data it would be available for the image.
The next important pointer here is the Docker Export Command.
So the Docker Export Command is used to export a container to another system using an image tar file.
So you can use Docker export followed by the container and the tar archive, which is container dot
tar.
Now when we export a container, remember that all the resultant imported images will be flattened.
So when we discuss about the important point at ten and 11, remember that the save and load is primarily
for Docker images.
However, the commit as well as import is for Docker containers.
This is for Docker containers.
The previous one is for Docker images.
The next important point is associated with the Env instruction, so the Env instruction within Dockerfile
is used to set an environment variable in the form of key and value.
So here you have set the env where the key is enginex and the value is 1.2.
So for any subsequent instruction here, for example, here you are referencing to a variable of Nginx.
So this nginx will be replaced by 1.2.
Now as far as the environment variables are concerned, you can also supply the environment variables
at a CLI with the help of hyphen e or hyphen hyphen env or even hyphen hyphen hyphen file.
So here you are supplying hyphen hyphen e and b of one is equal to value one.
So the container will have this specific environment variable when it starts.
The next important point is associated with the expose instruction.
So do note that the expose instruction informs the docker that a container listens on the specific network
port at a runtime.
Now, one important part to remember for the expose instruction is that it does not actually publish
a port.
This is very important.
So within the Docker file you have expose instruction of 9324, so it will not expose a port.
It is more of a documentation for anyone to go through to see on which port your application is listening
on.
The next important point is associated with the health check instruction.
So remember that health check instruction in Docker allows us to tell the platform on how to check if
a application is healthy.
Now, when it comes to health check instruction, understanding this specific use case is very important.
So what we have done, you have a health check CMD and you are making use of a curl on Http localhost
and you also have a exit of one.
So this basically curl command is used to make a Http request inside the container on localhost, which
checks if a web application on the container is responding or not.
Now it will exit with a zero echo status if a response is good or with a one which basically indicates
that things are not working fine.
So in such cases it will tell the docker that a container is unhealthy.
The next important point is associated with tagging a Docker image, so you should know the exact syntax
which is used to tag a Docker image, which is docker tag, followed by the source image and its associated
tag and the target image and its associated tag.
So for example, Docker tag Httpd and we are using fedora slash Httpd version 1.0.
So this is the source image and this is the target image.
So this syntax is something that you need to remember for the exams.
The next important point is associated with pruning a Docker image.
So a Docker image prune command allows you to clean up the unused image.
So by default, the above command will only clean up the dangling images.
So dangling images are the images without tags and the images that are not referenced by any container.
The.
Important point is associated with downloading an image from a private registry.
So remember that if your image is available on a private registry, which requires a login you can make
use of with registry auth flag with a Docker service create.
After logging in.
So for example, let's say your private registry is at registry dot example.com.
So the first thing you do a docker login to registry dot example.com.
And then when you do a Docker service create you supply with registry auth followed by the name of service
and the exact image.
So in such cases this will basically pass the login token from your local client to the swarm nodes
where the service is deployed using an encrypted logs.
So with this information, the node are able to log in to the registry to be able to pull the image.
Now this is a very important use case over here.
So suppose you have 100 worker nodes that are available and this image is stored in the private registry.
So by default, the worker nodes will not be able to pull the image primarily because they are not authenticated
to it.
So in such cases you have to make use of the with registry auth while creating a service so that the
login token will be supplied to all the worker nodes.
The last important point for today's video is associated with the build cache.
So Docker creates container images using layers, and each command that is found in Docker file creates
a new layer.
This is something that we know now.
Docker also makes use of a layer cache to optimize the process of building a Docker image, and it also
makes it much more faster.
So in this diagram also you see that for certain instruction a cache is used instead of building a layer
from scratch.
So this is one important part to remember.
So that's the high level overview about the second part of the important pointers for exams.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 3 ---

Hey, everyone, and welcome to the third part of the important pointers for exams.
The primary focus for today's video would be towards the domain of installation and configuration.
Now, the first important pointer that you need to be aware of is the backup process.
So do note that when we backup the DDR, there are certain things which are not backed up.
So one of the primary objects that are not backed up are related to the users as well as the organizations.
So if you want to backup users organization, then you can take it from the USB primarily because it
comes from the USB integration.
Now the next important point is associated with the namespaces, so you should be thorough with what
namespaces are.
So the primary aim of the namespace is to provide a layer of isolation between containers.
So each aspect of a container runs in a separate namespace and its access is limited to that specific
namespace.
Also note that there are multiple namespaces that are available and among them user namespace is not
enabled by default.
The next important point is associated with the C groups.
So C groups also refer as the control groups is a Linux kernel feature that limits accounts for and
isolates the resources like CPU memory disk, IO, etcetera for a collection of process.
Now, when it comes to the C groups, there are two approaches over here.
One is the hyphen hyphen CPUs and second is the hyphen hyphen CPU set hyphen CPUs.
So you should know the difference between what both of these approaches allows you to do.
The next important point is associated with the reservation and limits.
So do note that in here limit is a hard limit and reservation is a soft limit.
So if you take an example of the first command, which is Docker container create, you're specifying
a memory reservation of 250 M followed by the image name.
Now in the second case also you are specifying hyphen M of 500 M So the second one is basically a limit.
The first one is the reservation.
Now also note that you can specify hyphen m or hyphen hyphen memory.
So you have hyphen hyphen memory and hyphen.
Hyphen memory hyphen reservation.
So make sure your concept related to limits and reservation are clear.
And also you should know this specific command of hyphen m or hyphen hyphen memory as well as hyphen
hyphen memory hyphen reservation.
The next important point is associated with the immutable tags in DDR.
So by default users with the read and write access will be able to overwrite the tags within the DDR.
If you want to have that block, then you can make use of the immutable tags.
So immutable tag can be set at a repository level.
So under the repository, if you go under the settings, you have the option of immutability.
So you should know the exact path where you can go ahead and set the immutability setting of a specific
repository.
The next important point is associated with the use case of cache.
So DDR cache are primarily used to decrease the amount of time it takes for you to pull a specific image.
So in this case, the DDR cluster is in us.
However, the users are from Asia, so instead of pulling the image from the US region, which will
increase the overall latency, you can create a cache at the Asia region itself so that user can go
ahead and pull the cache from the Asia location.
Now apart from that, have a high level overview about the DDR cache architecture for the DDR, you
need a U.S. agent to be installed and for the cache you do not directly need a user agent.
You can have a cache available at an appropriate location.
The next important point is associated with the DDR Garbage collection.
So remember that you can configure the DDR to automatically delete unused image layers, thus saving
your disk space.
So this process is referred as the garbage collection so you can go ahead and appropriately configure
your garbage collection to be done at a specific interval of time.
The next important point is associated with the DDR high availability.
So DDR is designed to scale horizontally as your usage increases, so you can readily add one or more
replicas to scale your DDR.
Now do remember here that in case of the DDR, if you want to make use of high availability, you should
make use of a centralized object storage.
The next important point is associated with the high availability of both U.S. and DDR.
So here do note that for USB three dedicated nodes is required for high availability aspect and even
for the three dedicated nodes are required to install DDR with high availability.
Now you can also monitor the status of USB using the web UI as well as the CLI.
You can also make use of the underscore ping endpoint to build a monitoring automation to check if the.
Nodes are up and running as expected.
The next important point is associated with setting the orchestrator type for UCP.
We already know that UCP supports both The Swarm as well as Kubernetes, and you can select one among
them from the UCP console.
Along with that, you can also set a orchestrator type from the CLI.
So for example, if you want to change the orchestrator type from swarm to Kubernetes at a node level,
then you can make use of Docker node update followed by adding a new label which is called Docker.
UCP Orchestrator Kubernetes is equal to true, followed by the Node ID.
This is very important.
Make sure that you remember this specific command.
The next important point is associated with the storage driver in.
So by default, Detr will store the images within the file system where it is running.
However, you can also configure the Detr to store it at a external storage backend.
So specifically, when you're using for high availability, you need to have a shared object store that
you have to configure.
The next important point is associated with the supported storage systems for Detr.
So primarily things are classified into local and cloud storage.
So for local you have NFS, bind, mount and volume.
For cloud storage, you have S3, Azure, Google Cloud as well as various others.
The last important pointer for today's video is associated with the webhooks, so you can configure
the Detr to automatically post an event notification to a webhook URL of your choosing.
So the webhook related aspect.
Do remember the use case of security scan and unit test.
So anytime within the exam, if you see a use case where unit test needs to be performed after a security
scan.
Do note that unit test is not possible at a deeper level, but you will have to configure a webhook
towards the appropriate server which can perform unit tests like Jenkins.
So that's the high level overview.
About the third part of the important pointer for the Docker certified Associate exams.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 4 ---

Hey everyone, and welcome to the part four of the important pointers for the DCA exams.
The primary focus for today would be the area of networking.
Now for the exams, you should be aware of the primary networking drivers that are available.
The first one is the Bridge network Driver, which is one of the default network drivers for Docker.
The next one is the host network.
So remember that this driver removes the network isolation between the Docker host and the Docker container,
and it can be used to attach to the host networking directly.
Also, along with that, make sure you know the user defined bridge as well as the legacy link approach.
The next important networking driver is the overlay, which is the default networking driver for swarm.
Remember that all the containers which are part of the overlay network, can communicate with each other
even across.
Host.
Now the communication in an overlay can be encrypted by making use of hyphen hyphen opt encrypted option.
Also, do not confuse when you see hyphen o in exam instead of hyphen opt because both of them are same.
Now for the overlay.
One very important part to remember is that you do not need to create the overlay network on other nodes
because it will automatically be created when one of those nodes starts running a service task which
requires the specific network.
Now, apart from that, make sure that you understand the difference between a small hyphen P and a
capital hyphen.
P So the publish list, which is the small P will publish the list of ports that you define.
So an example is hyphen P port 80, colon 80.
So the first one is the host port.
Second one is the container port.
However, with the publish all which is referenced as the capital P, it will assign a random port for
all the exposed port of the container.
Now hyphen P will map the container port to a random port which are about 3 to 7 six eight port number.
Now along with that, also remember the nun network.
So if you want to completely disable the networking stack of your container, you can make use of a
nun network.
Now, this mode will not configure any IP address for that specific container, and that container does
not have any access to the external network as well as any communication with the other containers.
The next important point is associated with configuring a docker for the external DNS.
Do note that Docker Containers DNS configuration is taken from the host's Etsy Resolv.conf.
Now DNS settings for container can also be customized if you intend to do, and if you want to customize,
you can configure this specific block which is DNS followed by the list of DNS servers under the daemon
dot Json file.
The last important point for today's video is that you should be able to know on how you can inspect
the network details.
So to fetch the information about a specific network, you can run the Docker network inspect followed
by the network name may be a bridge, maybe an overlay and so on.
So that's the high level overview about some of the important pointers for the networking area.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 5 ---

Hey everyone, and welcome to the Part five of the important pointers for the DCA exam.
Our primary focus for today's video would be towards the area of security.
Now the first important pointer is associated with the UCP client bundles.
So client bundles are basically a group of certificates and files that are downloaded from UCP.
Now remember that depending upon the permission that is associated with the user, you can now execute
Docker swarm commands from your remote machine that can take effect on the remote cluster.
So you should know the basics on what UCP client bundles are and how you can configure them.
The next very important point is associated with the Docker Content Trust, which is used for interacting
with only the trusted images also referred as the signed images.
Now you can enable the Docker content trust with the export followed by Docker Content Trust is equal
to one.
Make sure that you remember this specific command.
Now for the exams, you should also be prepared to face a scenario where you will be asked whether Docker
content trust will block the image or not.
So for example, you have this Docker file where you are using a from instruction run and CMD.
Now the question would state something like will you be able to build an image from this specific Docker
file provided the Docker content trust is enabled?
So the answer is yes or no.
So what do you think here?
Will you be able to do or not?
And the answer is no, you will not be able to do provided this image is not a signed one.
So if this image is a signed one, then you will be able to do.
If not, then you will not be able to build the image here.
So when you discuss about the Docker content trust, do note that the engine signature verification
prevents following aspects of images.
First one is that it will not allow you to do a Docker container run for an unsigned or a altered image.
Then you will not be able to do a Docker pull of an unsigned or a altered image as well as Docker build
where the from image is not signed or is not scratched.
So in such cases, Docker content trust will block the overall process.
The next important point is associated with the Docker secrets.
Do note the command that is used to create a secret which is Docker secret create.
Now also remember that this is a cluster management command and must be executed on the swarm manager
node.
Also note that you cannot update or rename a specific secret.
So in a service, if you want to update a new secret, you can make use of hyphen hyphen secret hyphen
add and hyphen hyphen.
Secret hyphen.
Remove flag along with the Docker service update command.
The next important point is associated with the secrets Mount path.
So when you grant a newly created or running service or access to a secret, the decrypted secret is
mounted into the container in the following path, which is run secrets followed by the secret name.
However, you can also specify a custom path in case the above default path is not needed.
So the custom path can be defined with the help of hyphen hyphen secret where you specify the source
and the target which is basically the path where the secret would be available.
The next important point is associated with the swarm Autolog functionality, so you should know on
how you can go ahead and lock your swarm cluster.
Also note why exactly the locking of swarm cluster is important.
So in case if your swarm cluster is compromised and if a data is stored in plaintext, then the attacker
can get all the sensitive information.
And this is one of the primary reason why we make use of the auto lock functionality.
Now, also note that auto lock can be enabled during the cluster initialization state when you do a
swarm in.
Apart from that, you can also enable the swarm auto lock at a later stage with the help of Docker Swarm
update hyphen hyphen auto lock is equal to true.
So in case if your swarm cluster is already running and the auto lock is not enabled, you can go ahead
and run this command to enable the auto lock.
The next important point is associated with the mutual TLS authentication.
So when you create a new swarm by running a Docker swarm in it, Docker designates itself as a manager
node.
Now, by default, the manager node generates a new root certificate authority along with the key pair,
which is used for secure communication.
Now, in such cases, whenever a new node joins the swarm, the manager automatically issues a new certificate
to that specific node, and by default, each node in the swarm renews the certificate every three months.
Now, when you see this diagram, you have a certificate authority, and the communication between a
manager and the worker node is happening via the TLS.
So when you basically join the worker node, a new certificate for that node is automatically generated.
Now, we have discussed more about this in a relevant video.
So in case if this is a little confusing, you can go ahead and revise the video related to the.
Some models.
The next important point is associated with the privileged container.
Do note that by default, Docker containers are unprivileged.
Now, when the operator executes the Docker run with the privileged flag, Docker will enable all access
to the devices of that of the host to allow the container to have nearly all the same access to the
host as the processes that are running outside of the container.
So in case if there are certain issues related to accessing certain devices, you can make use of the
hyphen hyphen privileged option for the container.
The last important pointer for today's video are associated with the roles that are available in UCP.
So there are certain built in roles that are available like None view only restricted scheduler as well
as full control.
So make sure that a high level overview you understand what these are and specifically understand the
role of restricted control.
So the restricted control allows users to view and edit the resource, but it does not allow the users
to run a service or a container in a way that affects the node where it is running.
So for example, users cannot mount a node directory.
Users cannot exec into a container or run containers in a privileged mode or even run a container with
additional kernel capabilities.
So that's the high level overview about some of the important pointers for the exams as far as the security
domain is concerned.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 6 ---

Hey Ryan, and welcome to the Part six of the important pointers for exams.
The primary focus for today's video is associated with the storage and volumes.
Now, the first important pointer here is that you should know on how you can go ahead and mount the
volumes inside a container so you can make use of hyphen V, followed by the volume name, which is
my volume and the path where it can be mounted.
You can also make use of hyphen hyphen mount followed by the source as well as the target over here.
Now you can even mount the same volume to multiple containers along with that.
Also at a high level overview note what exactly the bind mounts are all about and how you can map a
directory from a host to a container.
The next important pointer for today's video is associated with how you can remove the volume when the
container exits.
So if you have not named the volume, remember this.
If you have not named the volume, then when you specify the hyphen hyphen option, the volume associated
with the container will also be deleted when the container is removed.
So you should know the hyphen hyphen option over here.
Apart from that, also know the basics of device mapper.
So primarily in device mapper.
The two modes which is loop hyphen is used for testing purpose.
However, you can make use of direct hyphen mode for production purposes.
So that's the high level overview about today's video, a very short one, but the point is that we
have discussed in today's video are very important for exams.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - K8s ---

Hey, everyone, and welcome to the Part seven of the important pointers for exams.
The primary focus for today's video would be associated with the topics of Kubernetes.
Now, the first important pointer is associated with the Kubernetes pod.
So a pod in Kubernetes represents a group of one or more application containers and some shared resources
for that specific container.
So not only a pod will have a container, but there can be multiple resources like volumes that can
be part of a single pod.
The second important point is associated with the deployments.
So deployment provides replication functionality with the help of replica set along with various additional
capabilities like rolling out changes, rolling back changes and others if required.
So during the deployments, you can go ahead and set a desired state and the deployment will ensure
that the desired number of containers are always running.
Now, when you discuss about deployment, understanding the rolling update related functionality is
very important.
So the deployment updates pods in a rolling update fashion.
So for example, in this diagram you have an image of Nginx.
So tomorrow you change this image of Nginx to image of Apache.
So the deployment will not go ahead and terminate all the pods at once.
It will do it at a rolling basis so you can further customize it by making use of Max unavailable and
max search to control the rolling update process.
The next important point is associated with the config maps.
Do note that config maps allows you to decouple the configuration artifacts from image content to containerize
the application to make it portable so you can have a central config maps which will have certain configuration
file.
And whenever you launch a pod you can associate a config map with them.
The next important point is associated with the Kubernetes secret.
So a secret is an object that contains small amount of sensitive data such as password, a token or
a key.
So whenever a pod gets launched, you can associate a Kubernetes secret with them.
The next important point is associated with a Kubernetes service.
So service is basically an abstraction which defines a logical set of pods and allows a policy through
which you can access them.
Now, when you discuss about Kubernetes service, there are two important service type that you need
to remember.
First one is the cluster IP.
So when a service type is of cluster IP and internal cluster IP address is assigned to that specific
service.
Now, since it is an internal cluster IP, it can only be reachable from the cluster.
Remember this you cannot reach a cluster IP from the internet.
Now this is also a default service type.
The next one is the nodeport.
So if a service type is Nodeport, then Kubernetes will allocate a port on every worker node.
So each node will proxy that port into your specific service.
So during exams, if you see a use case where a service needs access from the internet, then Nodeport
is the right one.
Cluster IP will not be the best choice there.
The next important point is associated with the volume in Kubernetes.
So do note that one of the benefits of Kubernetes is that it supports multiple volumes.
So you have EBS, cinder Glusterfs and so on.
So multiple volume types can be used for Kubernetes.
Now when it comes to volumes, you have to be very thorough for your concept of the persistent volume
and persistent volume claims.
So persistent volume is a piece of storage in a cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator
or dynamically provisioned using a specific storage class.
So when you discuss about the dynamic volume provisioning, do note that the dynamic volume provisioning
allows storage volumes to be created on demand.
So when you discuss about the volume types like EBS specifically, whenever you are using a Kubernetes
cluster in AWS, you can make use of dynamic volume provisioning.
So the dynamic volume provisioning feature eliminates the need for a cluster administrator to pre-provision
the storage.
Instead, it can automatically provision the storage when it is requested by the users.
The next important point is associated with the persistent volume claim.
So persistent volume claim is a request for a storage by a user.
So within the claim, a user specifies the size of the volume along with the access mode.
So, for example, a developer says that I want a volume of size ten GB which has a speed of fast for
my pod.
So accordingly a specific persistent volume will be associated with it.
The next important point is associated with the requests and limits.
So requests and limits are two ways in which you can control the amount of resources that can be assigned
to a pod.
So a request is something that is guaranteed to get for that pod and limit is.
Make sure that the container does not take notes resources above a specific value.
So again, let's assume that you have defined a request of 256 MB of Ram.
So any node where your pod is assigned, that pod is guaranteed to get this much amount of memory.
Now limit, on the other hand, is a maximum memory which will limit the maximum amount of resource
that a pod can use.
Now, depending upon the requests and limits that you set for a pod, a Kubernetes scheduler decides
the idle node to run the pod depending on the configuration here.
So, for example, if your pod requires eight GB of Ram, however, there are no nodes which are available
within your cluster that has eight GB of Ram, then your pod will never get scheduled.
This is one important part to remember.
The next important point is associated with the labels.
So labels are a key value pair that are attached to the objects such as pods.
So do note the commands that allow you to list a specific object based on labels.
So in the below command it will show you the list of all the nodes along with the labels that are associated
with the node.
So you have the hyphen hyphen hyphen labels, which will also show you the label associated with the
nodes here.
Now, along with labels, you should also be familiar with the selectors.
So selectors allows you to filter the object based on labels.
So for example, let's say you want to see all the pods, which has a label of envy is equal to production.
So in such cases you can do a kubectl get pods hyphen L, which stands for label followed by the label
which is envy is equal to production.
So the output of it will be all the pods which has this specific label.
The next important point is associated with the Daemonset.
So a daemon set can ensure that all the nodes runs a copy of a specific pod.
So this is very similar to the global service in Swarm.
The next important point is associated with the DNS for service and pods.
So in Kubernetes the communication can happen both with the IP address as well as DNS.
So understand this specific use case that we are discussing.
So let's say that you have a namespace one and under the namespace one you have one pod and you have
one service and you also have a namespace two under the namespace two you have pod three and pod four.
So if the pod four of a namespace referred as the Ns2 wants to communicate to the service A as part
of the namespace NS one, then the pod can simply reference to the object name which is a followed by
the namespace name which is NS one.
However, if the communication is happening inside the namespace, then you do not have to explicitly
specify the namespace.
You can just refer A and the appropriate DNS would work perfectly well.
All right, so make sure you remember this.
That for the cross namespace communication of name followed by namespace name is important.
The next important point is associated with taints and toleration.
Remember that taints are used to repel the pods from a specific node.
So in order to enter the taint worker node, you need to have a special path.
So that special path is referred as toleration.
Now when you discuss about taint, there are two important taint that you need to remember.
First one is the no schedule.
Second one is the no execute.
So when the no schedule is set, no pod will be allowed to schedule on to that specific node unless
and until it has a matching toleration.
So pods that are already running on that specific node will continue to run provided no schedule is
set at a later stage.
Now, compared to that, you also have a no execute which evicts the pods from the node even if the
pods are already running.
So in the examples, if you see a use case where you want to evict all the pods of a specific node,
then you can set a taint of no execute there.
The next important point is associated with the readiness probe.
Do note that it can happen, that the application is running but temporarily unavailable to serve the
traffic.
So for example, application is running, but it is still loading some of the large configuration files
from an external vendor.
So in such cases you do not want to kill the container, but we also do not want it to serve the traffic
so this can be better understood.
So a new container is being launched which is still updating itself.
So the status here would be not ready.
So in such cases the load balancer can serve the 100% of the traffic to a node which has the pod in
the ready state.
So this is where you can make use of the readiness probe to define the status of a given pod.
The next important point for today's video is associated with the Reclaim policy.
So persistent volume can have various reclaim policies which are.
Retain, recycle and delete.
Make sure that, you know, these reclaim policies.
So, for example, if a reclaim policy of retain is set, then if a user deletes a persistent volume
claim, then the corresponding persistent volume is not to be deleted.
Instead, it is moved to a release phase where all of its data can be manually recovered as opposed
to the retain.
You also have a delete.
So in such case, dynamically provisioned volumes is automatically deleted when the user deletes the
corresponding persistent volume claim.
So whenever a PVC is deleted associated with that PVC, whatever PV present, that PV will also be removed
in case if you do not want that to be removed, then you can set the reclaim policy to retain.
Now you also have a recycle which basically if supported by the underlying volume plugin, this will
go ahead and basically scrub your volume, which is hyphen RF your volume.
So all the files which are part of the volume will be removed and the volume then will be made available
for a new claim to happen.
The last important point for today's video is associated with the expansion of the persistent volume
claim so you can expand a PVC if its storage class has the allow volume expansion field to be true.
So in this specific diagram, you see that you have an explicit parameter of allow volume expansion
of true.
So to request a larger volume for a specific PVC, you can edit the PVC object and specify the larger
size here.
So this triggers the expansion of the volume that backs the underlying persistent volume here.
So that's the high level overview about some of the important pointers for Kubernetes.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Domain 7 ---

Hayden And welcome to the important pointer Part seven for the Docker Certified Associate Certification.
And let's get started.
Now the first thing that you need to be aware of is the storage classes.
So storage class provides a way for an administrator to describe the class of storage that is offered
so there can be a standard storage which might be a little slower.
There can also be a storage class associated with a premium storage and any PVC that is associated with
that premium storage class, the PV that will be created will be much more faster.
So depending upon the type of disk you need, you can associate your PVC with the appropriate storage
class.
Now, if you look into the storage class over here, it primarily consists of a provisional, it consists
of various parameters and also the reclaim policy.
So one more important part that you need to be aware here is the allow volume expansion is true, which
is part of the storage class.
Now, the next important point is associate with the volume expansion steps.
So you should know at a high level overview the steps that are required to expand the overall PV.
So the first one is you need to ensure that you enable the volume expansion within the storage class.
So the allow volume expansion should be true within the storage class.
So if you look into this diagram as well, you have this option of allow volume expansion as true here.
Second is you need to resize the persistent volume claim.
And third is you need to restart the pod.
The next important point that you need to be aware is the reclaim policy.
So at a high level overview you should know about the three reclaim policies, retain, delete as well
as recycle.
So do note that within the retain, even if the PVC is deleted, the associated PV will still exist
and the volume will be considered within the release state.
Now, along with that, you should know in detail about the retain policy.
So as we are discussing, if the PVC is deleted, associated PV will be within the release state.
However, if it is within the release state, it is not yet available for another claim because the
previous claims data still remains to be within the volume.
So you should also know the basic steps which are required for reclamation of such PV.
The next important point is that you should know at a high level overview about the difference between
a volume and a persistent volume.
So there are two primary types of storage abstractions.
One is volume and persistent volume.
So Kubernetes volumes only exist while the containing pod exists.
So once the pod is deleted, the associated volume will also be deleted.
So the volume does not exist outside of the Pods lifecycle and it is used for storing the temporary
data.
As opposed to that the Kubernetes persistent volume remains available outside of the Pods lifecycle
as well.
So PV will also remain depending upon the overall retention policy, even if the Pod and the associated
PVC is deleted.
The next important point that you need to be aware is the basics of the health check instruction options.
So you should be very thorough with the default values associated with interval timeout as well as retry.
So these are the three very important options that you need to be aware of.
So in exams you can expect various examples.
So let's take one simple example of a health check instruction.
So here the question states which among this will be able to determine the health check of a container
within one minute itself.
So whether interval is equal to 30s.
So if you have this, will it be able to determine the health check within one minute?
Or maybe if you have interval as 10s timeout of five seconds and retry of three, will this be able
to determine?
So what do you think?
Should it be?
Answer one or should it be answer two.
So I'll just give you the answer as well.
It should be the answer.
Two in such cases, and if you have gone through a video of the health check instruction, you would
know why.
Answer two is the right one.
The next important point is associated with the Kubernetes namespace and selectors.
So to list the pods from all the name spaces within the Kubernetes cluster, you can make use of the
following command.
So you have kubectl get pods, hyphen, hyphen, all namespaces.
So this by itself will be able to fetch all the pods from all the namespaces.
Now if a question states that you need to only list the pods which has the label of environment is equal
to development from all the namespaces.
So in such cases you can make use of the hyphen l option, which is basically for the selector, very
important hyphen L is for selector.
So you need to make use of this.
So again, instead of hyphen l, you can even specify hyphen hyphen selector so both of them can be
a right answer.
The next pointer for today's video is associated with the multi-stage build, so at a high level overview
you should know the purpose of the multi-stage build.
The primary aim is that.
Multi-stage build allows users to use the artifacts from one image to another.
So if you look into this specific screenshot here, you have to from instruction.
One is the golang and second is the scratch.
So within the goal line, what you are doing, you are cloning a specific repository of code and you
are compiling the overall code.
So once the overall code is compiled, you are making use of a copy instruction with hyphen hyphen from
is equal to zero, which references the previous image and you are copying the data from the previous
image to the current image, which is scratch.
So this is where multi-stage will proves to be useful.
So that's about it for today's video.

--- Delta - New Important Pointers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
