

=== Introduction ===


--- Welcome: Course Objectives and Overview ---

Hello, my name is Jason Taylor. I help development
teams deliver project requirements faster
and with less risk by automating build and delivery processes.
In this course on the Jenkins
continuous integration build server
I will introduce you to the foundational
aspects of Jenkins and related concepts
using a step-by-step approach with the end result being
a complete and automated build system
all the way through deployment.
This course will feature Jenkins
on the Windows operating system,
but all the main principles and most of the demos
are equally applicable to other operating systems.
I will show operating specific
videos and screenshots when needed.
Being a bootcamp on Jenkins, there are just
four major objectives for this course.
First you will learn the key concepts
related to Jenkins and build automation;
this includes understanding how Jenkins
works and the benefits it provides.
Second we will build a complete end to end automated build
system starting off with our source code in GitHub.
Schedule compilation, quality analysis, artifact publishing,
and finally deploying our project to an application server.
Third, as we build the automated build system, you
will master the essential aspects of Jenkins.
This includes learning and understanding the
user interface and how Jenkins is designed.
How to create configure execute and maintain projects;
the maintenance and integration of other
tools and extending Jenkins using plugins;
and finally how to enable security and Jenkins
to ensure users see only their projects.
All three aspects above will provide you an excellent starting
point to apply projects or the ones that you support.
In order to accomplish the course objectives, we will
start off with the introduction to core concepts.
After a good foundation has been applied, we
will walk through the installation process,
including related tools and their configuration.
Once everything is set up and ready to go we
will dive into Jenkins with our first projects,
getting to know Jenkins along the way.
After an initial orientation in Jenkins, we'll cover
one of the most popular build workflows in Jenkins:
building mavenized Java projects.
A major component to the modern build system is
automated unit testing and code quality analysis.
We will hook up Jenkins to several
tools for testing in quality,
then use those tools to affect the
build status for our projects.
Once we are confident we have a good solid project build
we will configure Jenkins to publish those
artifacts for other systems to use,
and then deploy those artifacts
to a running application server.
We will finish things off by getting
to know security in Jenkins.

--- Course Focus and Approach ---

Some decisions had to be made to keep
this course as focused as possible.
This course is designed for those new to Jenkins.
I decided to record most of the videos on Windows since
that is the most common desktop operating system.
However, there will be lectures just for Linux and
Mac OS users when that distinction is important.
Since you can make Jenkins do just about anything I
had to narrow things to the Java technology stack,
using Maven as the build management tool
and deploying to the Apache Tomcat server.
While Jenkins supports many languages,
technology stacks, and deployment systems,
Jenkins really excels with Maven projects.
You should be able to apply the principles of this
course to just about any technology stack you need
For source control I decided to use Git,
and by extension the GitHub service,
since Git is currently the most popular
source control system available.
If you use another source control management tool that's ok;
Jenkins likely has a plugin to add support for that tool.
Finally, I decided on a very simple Jenkins set up.
While Jenkins can be highly distributed, I kept
things easy to understand and to follow along
by running everything on the same system, at least initially.
This allows for a simplified and complete build
system, all the way through project deployment.
Once we understand the basics on a simple
setup we can ramp things up a bit later on.
The approach I take in teaching this
course is to give just enough theory
to understand the critical concepts and what's going on.
This course starts with the core concepts,
which is a high level overview,
and each of those concepts are more and more reinforced
during the practical examples sections of this course.
Within those examples, or screen casting demos,
I will walk through each step, one at a time.
Additionally I provide the complete source
code for all the projects on GitHub
and a listing of commands used throughout the course.
All this is to keep the course focused and
compact, since I know many people have busy lives
Most of the videos are short and focused, so you can
jump directly to the topic you are most interested.
I provide links to more information and of
course resources within the lecture resources,
so check those out during the course.
With all that I want you to pause the
video lessons so you can do the examples,
or follow along in order to get the most out of this course.


=== Full Installation ===


--- Build Maturity ---

Welcome, in this lecture, we're going to
start the discussion about build maturity,
and then how to get to continuous integration.
Most projects start off with very little
in the way of a structured build process.
Perhaps relying upon a single developer's
integrated development environment, or IDE,
to generate the deployment artifact or resources
needed to be placed into production manually.
For all practical purposes there really isn't
that build process, or it's very manual.
This often leads to the dreaded it works on my machine
dilemma especially if it doesn't work in production.
The next level up would be what I would
consider a minimal build process.
It would involve the use of build tools, like
Maven, or Gradle, NPM, Grunt, Webpack, etc.
to generate a repeatable build process
that manages the project's dependencies,
compiles code, and generates a deployment artifact.
At this point teams would still be using a dedicated
developer, that is the build guy, for this purpose.
Of course this has many drawbacks, but at
least many manual steps have been automated.
If we take the minimal build process just described
and dedicate a standalone server for this process,
perhaps using a build server or orchestrator
like Jenkins to perform a build on demand,
or when new changes are detected in the project we can
free up the build guy for actual development work.
Then we can automate other tasks we would like to
do but just didn't have the time for previously,
like running unit tests and static code
analysis to ensure high code quality.
If we accomplish this much we now have
a continuous inspection build process.
A continuous inspection build process automatically
detects changes in the project source code repository,
performs a build on those changes, and
runs various code quality inspections,
normally unit tests and static code analysis.
Simply getting to continuous inspection is a huge step
forward in a project or company's build maturity.
However, there are still several more levels to go.
Many people actually use the term continuous
inspection and continuous integration interchangeably.
However, to me, in order really achieve true
continuous integration we need a branching strategy,
and an approach for integration of the
changes into the main development branch,
and a release policy for production.
Continuous integration includes
everything from continuous inspection
but adds a structure branching strategy
and a release management policy.
The automated building and running of unit tests and
code quality tools is just continuous inspection.
With a structured release management process
and agreed upon branching strategy in place,
we can firmly say CI stands for continuous integration.
As we will see in a moment, Jenkins can serve as a central
part of a robust continuous integration pipeline,
which is what we will focus on in this course.
In fact, the build maturity continuum doesn't stop here;
We can evolve things to do automated deployments
to test servers and prepare for production,
thus making it to continuous delivery.


=== The Basics ===


--- What is Jenkins? ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at how
Jenkins works by reviewing the Jenkin's architecture
and getting to know the terminology used by Jenkins.
As with any software Jenkins has to run on a host system.
This system determines which installer is used
for Jenkins and the tools available for the use.
Jenkins runs on top of a Java web application
container or application server.
By default this is Jetty, but Jenkin's can be deployed
to any web application server with the right set up.
By default the Jenkins installer provides a packaged
version of Jetty in which Jenkins will run.
Since Jenkins runs on a Java web application
server, a java runtime is required.
You should run Jetty and Jenkins on a Java development
kit or JDK instead of just the Java runtime engine,
so Jenkins can access the JDK tools when needed.
On most operating systems there is
a small program called a service
that is responsible for starting stopping and
monitoring Jetty and the Jenkins application
Within Jenkins views provide a nice way
to group projects or folders together.
Projects also known as jobs provide configuration
or instructions on how to build software.
When ready projects will queue up until there is an available
build executer ready to execute the project's build.
Those executers running the Jenkins project
will leverage various supporting tools on the
host system to assist with the build process.
For example a Jenkins project may call a shell script.
a Maven lifecycle phase, or both.
Within Jenkins nearly everything is a plugin,
in that nearly all functionality is provided by plugins.
You can think of Jenkins as little
more than an executer of plugins.
Plugins are small libraries that add new abilities Jenkins
and can provide integration points for other tools
As we will see in the installation
section, Jenkins provides a set up wizard
that will recommend a curated collection of initial plugins
to get you started, which we will explore later on.
Of course, more plugins can be added later.
However some plugins can contain bugs, become abandoned, or
conflict with other plugins, or a myriad of other issues.
I recommend testing out any plugins before
introducing them to a live production system.
You might notice that projects are
sometimes referred to as jobs.
Jenkins appears to use these terms interchangeably.
As discussed before, projects are
the main unit of work in Jenkins,
by containing a list of instructions needed
to complete a build for a software project.
Those instructions are part of the Jenkins project's
configuration along with other project information,
like source control location and project metadata.
The project configuration is broken up into
general information, pre and post build step,
the main build steps, build phases, or other
build events potentially added by plugins.
Views are a way to group related projects together, and
really only serve to improve the user's interface in Jenkins.
There are global views that are available to everyone, although
they will only show the projects the user has access to.
Also, user defined views are set up in
private to the logged in user on Jenkins.
The default all view is provided
once the first project is created
and will contain all projects from that point forward.
The workspace is a location on the computer
system where Jenkins places all the files
related to the Jenkins project and related software project.
By default each project or job is
assigned a workspace location.
In addition to the software project
source code the workspace can contain
intermediate temporary log or build
files or Jenkins build metadata.
Upon success the workspace may also contain build artifacts.


=== Maven Projects ===


--- About the Instructor ---

Welcome, in this video, for those interested, I'm
going to share a bit about myself and my background.
Of course, if you really don't care, feel free to skip ahead.
I've been a software engineer for about 20 years,
and I've worked in all sizes of companies,
from startups to large enterprises and even
do some freelancing from time to time.
In my various roles I've gravitated towards
the unofficial dev ops responsibilities,
in order to solve the problems that commonly vex developers.
For some reason I've always been the build guy.
Currently my day job is as a lead
software engineer on a dev ops team
for a Fortune 100 company in the central Florida area.
While I'm not allowed to mention them by name you can
easily figure it out by visiting my LinkedIn profile.
Anyway, at my daytime work, I work with
Jenkins and related tools on a daily basis,
and I've become the resident expert with
continuous integration and delivery in general.
After helping my company's technology division transition
to Git and GitHub from a legacy source control tool,
I eventually moved into my current
position as a lead software engineer
on the company's continuous integration and delivery
team, where I've been for the last several years.
Recently I designed and migrated our 1,500
Jenkins workflows containing over 60,000 jobs
from an on premises solution to the
cloud using Amazon Web Services.
While I'm quite proud of my professional
accomplishments, especially at my current employment,
I really enjoy sharing my knowledge, mentoring
others, and holding training sessions.
Naturally online training has filled this desire and
provides a natural extension of and synergy with my day job.
Specifically on Udemy, I have been fortunate enough
to work with over 160,000 students from 196 countries
which have given me over 16,000 reviews
across my growing list of courses,
of which several of them are labeled as
bestselling in their respective categories.
Since I have been teaching online for more than four
years I have developed a specific style and approach
that seems to resonate well with many students, especially
those first starting out on a particular topic.
I continued to refine my own teaching and course delivery
skills, so I'm very open to honest and constructive feedback.
With all my courses I enjoy interacting with my
students and fostering an open sharing community
among my students in various ways,
depending on the course platform.
On the personal side I live with my family in
the Central Florida area of the United States.
When I'm not working at my day job,
or working on my online courses.
I'm normally spending time with my
family or on one of my hobbies.
In particular I'm an avid photographer
who loves to travel when I can.
Thankfully my family enjoys getting out and about as well,
although they aren't nearly as patient with me as
I'd like when I'm trying to get that perfect shot.
Oh well, at least my fellow
photographer friends understand this.
I have a few other hobbies as well, but
honestly since I discovered teaching online
that has consumed much of my free time after work and family.
A friend once told me that most people only have room for
three major activities in their lives, at least at once,
Work and family normally occupy the first two slots.
That only leaves one, which I
normally fill with teaching online.
Of course this is just a generalization rule;
the main point is not to overcommit one's
time and to help correctly set priority.
Of course I do squeeze in some other activities
when I can but they aren't my main focus.
All right, I think this is enough about me.
If you want to connect with me you can send me a
direct message or leave a comment on this course.
Regarding connecting with me outside of Udemey,
I like to use each social media site for
their respective intended purposes.
While I generally reserve Facebook friend requests for close
friends and family, I welcome followers to my profile
and subscribers to my groups and pages for
my courses and topics in which I teach.
Also, I welcome nearly every invite on LinkedIn and Twitter.
If you want to connect with me beyond
Udemy, please see my instructor's profile.
Great. Now let's jump in to the rest of this course.


=== Tests and Quality Analysis: Continuous Inspection ===


--- Overview ---

Welcome, in this lecture, I'm going to cover
the installation approach used in this course,
and to discuss the different computing
platforms that are covered.
This course is equally applicable to Windows, Mac, and Linux
although most of the demonstration videos will feature Windows.
If you are a Mac or Linux user you're probably used to this;
however I will feature Mac and or Linux
specific videos or screenshots when needed.
One area that's just hard to get around is instillation.
Since we will be starting out by
installing Jenkins directly on our system,
there will be separate installation videos for each platform.
Although, I do recommend watching the Linux
installation regardless of your system;
we will borrow some of that a bit later.
To keep things moving along I'm going to
summarize the installation process right now,
and after this installation section we will resume
together in the Jenkins orientation section.
To keep things as consistent as possible,
we will basically be using the same tools on
all the platforms with some minor exceptions.
I realize that not everyone likes videos on installation
processes, so I have provided a set of installation notes
at the end of this section for
students that prefer that approach.
Also, I have tried to keep this as abbreviated as possible,
assuming most software engineers will have no
problem stepping through an installation wizard.
For those that need or want a more verbose walkthrough
see the lecture resources for links to
more in-depth installation instructions.
For each operating system we will install Git source control,
which is the most popular version control system today.
While the tool is the same the installation process
is slightly different for each operating system.
The Atom text editor, which is an excellent
text editor available on Windows Mac and Linux.
The Java software development kit or JDK.
We'll use the Oracle version on Mac
and Windows and open JDK for Linux.
Apache Maven, which is the most popular Java build tool.
And, of course, the Jenkin's continuous integration
server, which is also available on all major platforms.
Starting in Jenkins 2 there's a new set up wizard that will
help us set up Jenkin's for the first time after installation.
After the actual installation of Jenkins each operating
system has its own way to control Jenkins as a service.
We'll cover that before rejoining the rest of the course.
Also, I'll cover a bit about set up for each platform,
including a quick installation of Google Chrome.
I use Chrome to provide a standard web browser experience
across all supported platforms in all my courses.
However it is likely other browsers will work just fine,
including your system's default web
browser, with the appropriate adjustments.
Like I mentioned before if something seems
a bit too verbose feel free to skip ahead.
Just keep in mind that I will assume that you have an identical
setup as demonstrated during the installation section.


=== Publishing Build Artifacts to an Artifact Repository ===


--- Windows Installation ---

In this course I'll be using a 64 bit version
of Windows 10 home, which is fairly common.
Because of frequent updates, your system
might look a bit different than mine.
For the most part I like starting with a clean
installation of Windows that has been customized
so the recorded video will look
good on a wide range of devices.
In this video we're going to quickly install
Git, Atom, Java, Maven, and of course Jenkins.
I use Google Chrome with all of my courses as a standard
web browser, consistent across all operating systems.
The default browser on Windows 10 will work for this
course as well as modern versions of Internet Explorer.
You can consider this step optional, but I include
it for those that wish to follow me exactly.
To get started go to the Google Chrome
Web site located at "google.com/chrome"
Run the installer and accept all the defaults.
Next, let's install Git for windows,
available from "git-scm.com".
Once that page loads the website
should detect you're running Windows,
and provide the download for Windows
button directly on the home page.
Just click on the download for Windows button
to begin the download of the installer.
Once the installer has completed downloading
run the installer to start set up.
While it is safe to blast through the setup
process by accepting all the defaults
I do like adding the Git icon to the desktop for easy access,
and allowing Git the run from the
standard Windows command prompt,
although we'll be sticking with Git bash for this course.
Another tweak I like to make is to check
out as-is and commit as UNIX-style,
but that is purely a personal choice since
I do a lot of cross-platform development.
Either way that and many other settings
can be adjusted after the installation.
Again most of these choices are personal
preferences and will not impact this course.
Beyond that, just move through the
installer by accepting the defaults.
Before moving on I would like to set up the minimal
configuration required to do any significant work in Git.
Git needs your name and email address before we can
do very much with it, so let's set that up now.
Fire up Git bash, which is the bash terminal
specifically designed to work well with Git on Windows,
but it also has uses beyond get as well.
With Git bash open type the following commands:
"git config --global user.name"; space;
then, in double quotes, your name.
Press enter, then type:
"git config --global user.email"; space; then, in
double quotes, your email address; then press enter.
While I'm here, I need to make a few
adjustments for better readability,
and add Git bash to taskbar and start menu.
Don't worry, this part is optional.
Next we're going to install the Atom text editor.
Return to your web browser and then go to "atom.io".
Once that page loads the web site
should detect you are running Windows,
and provide the download Windows Installer
button directly on the home page.
Just click the download button to
begin the download of the installer.
Once the download has completed either run the
installer from the downloads folder on your system
or the downloads feature in your browser.
In Chrome, I can simply use the open
feature to run the Atom setup executable.
Once the installer launches there really isn't a set up
wizard; Atom will automatically be set up on your system,
and the installer will automatically open
Atom after the installation is completed.
If Atom opened automatically take a
moment to clear all the welcome screens,
and uncheck anything so that you aren't
constantly greeted by these pages again.
You might need to accept or decline the telemetry data request.
Now let's close Atom, and then confirm that you
can use the "atom" command from within Git bash.
If Atom loads then you're good to go, if not then see
the troubleshooting guide in the installation notes.
Great, while I have Atom open, I need to make
a few adjustments for better readability.
Now I need to close Atom again and then make sure
that Atom is on my desktop taskbar and start menu.
Now that I have a decent editor I need
to update my bash environment a bit.
I'm going to add an alias called "ll" to
point to the ls command with a few options.
I'm also going to set up a special script called "Git Prompt."
that I will set up across all my
systems to provide a consistent
terminal prompt, especially
while in Git repositories.
Actually, on Windows, the default prompt
provided by Git bash will work just fine.
This will take just a minute.
I could provide a more comprehensive walk through
to this very optional step in my lecture resources.
Great, that's better.
On Windows we need to install the latest version of Java 8.
I realize that Java 9 is available, but, as of the recording
of this course, Jenkins was not yet ready for Java 9.
I expect this to be resolved within a year or so, or
at least before Java 8 enters end of life support.
Open your browser and search for "Oracle JDK download".
It should be one of the top search results and
points to a page somewhere on the Oracle Web site.
You should land on the downloads page for Java SE.
Find the Java 8 downloads and pick the latest version.
Once on the specific downloads
page accept the license agreement
before clicking on the correct
Windows Installer for your system.
I'm going with the x64 version.
Once the installer is downloaded run the
installer and just accept all the defaults,
and then clean up a bit after that's done.
For the benefit of some tools, like Maven, we need
to create a Java home system environment variable
that contains the full path to the JDK installation.
Also, while there, update the system path
to look in the bin folder under Javal home.
Finally open up Git bash and type "java -version,"
to verify that Java was installed correctly,
then press enter, and then close Git bash.
To start the installation process for Apache Maven
open your favorite web browser and go to "maven.apache.org".
Once on that page click on download.
Once on the downloads page click on the
download button for the binary zip archive
for the latest version of Maven available.
Once the Maven binary archive has finished downloading simply
expand the archive into a folder location of your choice.
I recommend keeping all development tools together so I
have set up a folder on my C drive called "DevTools."
And, inside there, a folder for all my Maven installations.
Expand the archive here.
Like the Java installation process we need to create
a system environment variable called "MAVEN_HOME"
that points to the path of this Maven installation.
Also, adjust the system path variable likewise, so that
we look inside the bin folder underneath Maven home.
Open up Git bash, and type "mvn -v", then press
enter to verify Maven was installed correctly.
Once done, close Git bash.
Great, now the main event; the Jenkins install.
Open your web browser to "jenkins.io".
Click on download, then select Windows under
long term support or LTS version of Jenkins.
I will warn you that the version of Jenkin's might
impact stuff working exactly for this course.
For those that prefer I provided a link to the
exact version I recorded this course with.
OK. Assuming that you're living a bit more dangerously,
when the Windows Installer archive finishes downloading
expand the zip file and run the
installer and accept all the defaults.
Once the installer is complete Jenkins will be running on
your system as a Windows service, which I will cover soon,
and your web browser will attempt to
land on the Jenkins server home page.
When Jenkins loads for the first time you will need
to walk through a simple getting started wizard.
If that doesn't load for some reason
refresh or reload your web page.
On the first page you will be given
instructions on how to unlock Jenkins.
In my case a special cryptic password has been written to a
text file within the Jenkin's installation folder on my system
Simply copy the full path to that file and then
use your favorite text editor to open that file.
Copy the password text in that file and paste the value
into the administrator password field on the screen.
Next we are prompted to customize Jenkins via plugins.
We will cover plugins in more detail later in this
course, so click the option select plugins to install,
then click on none at the top of the
next screen, then install to continue.
Jenkins will not install any plugins starting out,
giving us a completely clean install of Jenkins.
After that Jenkins will prompt us to create an admin account.
We will use this account most of the time initially
until we get to the security section of this course.
I'm going to call the username admin, and
provide a password, and then confirm it.
I'm using admin account for full name.
Once done click save and finish, and then start using Jenkins.
Now, you should be on the main page of Jenkins.
Once installed Jenkins will be running as a Windows service,
which means Jenkins will automatically be started
in the background whenever the system restarts.
You can control starting stopping and restarting
Jenkins from the Windows service management console
by going to the start menu and
then select "computer management".
Once computer management system loads expand services
and applications and then click on services.
This will list all the services
currently set up on your system.
Find the item named Jenkins, then click on it to select it.
From here you can start, stop, or restart Jenkins.
Also you can configure Jenkins to start
automatically or not upon system reboot.
It is mainly important to know where the Jenkins service
is located just in case you really need to use it.
Great. We've just blown through a lot
of installation configuration steps.
If that was too fast, or you need a bit
more detail see the lecture resources.
With Jenkins and related tools set up
we are ready to start using Jenkins,
which we will do in the next section of this course.


=== Build Artifact Deployment with Jenkins ===


--- Mac Installaiton ---

(English captions)
For this course we will install Git as provided by Apple,
the Atom text editor, the Oracle
JDK, Maven 3, and of course Jenkins.
I have standardized on Google
chrome with all my training courses
because it provides an excellent web browser that provides
a consistent interface across multiple operating systems.
If you want to use Google Chrome you
can get it from "google.com/chrome."
Just download the installer and accept any defaults.
I have also customized my terminal for
better readability during this course.
I also added the terminal to the dock.
Finally I have a comprehensive set of
installation notes at the end of thid section
for those that prefer working that way.
Let's get started and download Git provided by Apple.
Yes there are several ways to install Git, but this one
is the easiest that doesn't cause conflicts later on.
Simply open your terminal program and
type "git version", then press enter.
If Git response with the version
number then Git is already installed.
Otherwise your system will prompt you
whether or not you want to install
the command line developer tools or Xcode.
If you plan to use Xcode, then choose that option.
Otherwise just install the command line developer tools.
Just follow the install prompts as
needed and accept any defaults.
Once that's done test it out by typing
"git version", then press enter.
If Git responds with a version number then you're good to go.
I'm going to take a few moments to adjust my bash
prompt to work better within Git repositories.
Before moving on, I like to set up a minimal
configuration required for any significant work in Git.
Git needs your name and email address before we can
do very much with it, so let's set that up now.
With terminal is still open, type the following commands:
"git config --global user.name"; space;
then, in double quotes, your name.
Then the next command: "git config --global user.email";
space; then, in double quotes, your
email address; then press enter.
Now with Git installed and configured we could
proceed with installing a decent text editor.
Next let's install the Atom text editor, since
there's a text editor I use in most of my courses.
Let's start off by opening your web browser, in
this case Google Chrome, and then go to "atom.io".
Once that page loads the Website should
detect that you are running Mac OS
and provide the download for Mac
button directly on the home page.
Just click on the download button to begin
the download of the install or archive.
Once the download has completed either expand
the archive from your Downloads folder,
or the downloads feature of your browser.
In Chrome I can simply use the open in finder feature
to open finder directly to where it was downloaded.
You will land in the downloads folder on your system, where
you can double click on the download archive or zip file.
Mac will use the archive utility to expand the archive.
Once that's done the Atom applications
will be in your Downloads folder.
Now simply drag and drop the Atom
app into your Applications folder.
At this point Atom is now installed.
So let's try it out by opening Atom
from within the application stack.
The first time you attempt to run Atom Mac will prompt
you to confirm this action; click open to continue.
We did everything correctly; Atom should now be open.
Next we need to set up an easy command to
open Atom directly from the command line.
Now, while Atom is still open, go to the Atom
menu and then click on install shell commands.
Doing so will prompt you for your
administrator account's logon.
Provide the required logon information
and click OK to continue.
Now Atom will create the "atom"
and "apm" commands on the system
so both of these commands can be
executed directly from the command line.
Atom will confirm when this is done.
Let's try it out. Fully quit Atom, and then open your terminal.
Once open simply type "atom".
Atom should now be open again.
While I have Atom open again I'm going to make
a few adjustments to make things look better.
Now that we've confirmed Atom is working, close Atom.
To install the Java software development kit or
JDK search for JDK install within your browser.
Select the link that goes to Oracle's JDK download page.
Download the Mac OS X version of the JDK;
remember to accept the license agreement first.
Once the installer image completes
downloading open the installer image volume.
Once the volume is open double click on the
package icon to start the JDK installer.
During the installation process just accept all the defaults
To confirm Java is correctly installed open your terminal
program and then type "java -version", then press enter.
If Java responds with the version we just installed
then you know Java is installed correctly.
Now let's update our ".bashrc" file to set the
Java home variable for those that need it.
"export JAVA_HOME", in all caps; '='; and then the
path surrounded by back ticks 'usr/libexec/java_home'.
To start the installation process for Apache Maven open
your favorite web browser and go to "mave.apache.org".
Once on that page click on download and once
on the downloads page click on the link
for the binary tarball archive or "tar.gz" file
for the latest version of Maven available.
Once the Maven binary archive has finished downloading,
open your terminal program and extract
the tarball someplace on your system.
I'm using "/Development", which you might need to create first.
Once the tarball has been expanded create a symbolic
link to the Maven folder and name it simply "maven".
Next we need to add the environment
variable called "MAVEN_HOME" to our system,
and add the Maven executable to our path.
Open your ".bashrc" file and then type the following lines:
"MAVEN_HOME", in all caps; "=/Development./Maven".
Then, on the next line, "export PATH"; space; and then,
in double quotes, we're going to set up our path.
First part of the path will have '$';
and then, in curly braces, "PATH".
That resolves to our current path variable.
Then we'll separate that with a colon; and
then add in our "MAVEN_HOME" variable; "/bin".
Now save and close the ".bashrc"
file and then restart terminal.
With the terminal restarted let's
verify Maven is set up correctly.
Type in "mvn -version".
We are going to download and install Jenkins for Mac OS X.
Let's start off by opening your favorite
web browser and go to "jenkins.io".
Once the page loads find and click on the download button.
Pick the long term support or LTS release by selecting
Mac OS X to download the Jenkin's installer.
Once the installer package has finished
downloading open your downloads stack
and click on the package file to
start the install wizard program.
Walk through the installation wizard
by accepting all the defaults.
Once Jenkins has finished installing the installer
will open your web browser to the Jenkins homescreen
which should be located at localhost and on port 8080.
Since Jenkins runs as a service or daemon,
you can open your favorite web browser to
"localhost:8080" in the future to access Jenkins.
When Jenkins loads for the first time you will need
to walk through a simple getting started wizard.
If it doesn't load for some reason
just refresh or reload the web page.
On the first page you'll be given
instructions on how to unlock Jenkins.
In my case I have a special cryptic password that has been
written to a text file within the Jenkins installation folder.
Simply copy the full path of that file and then use the
cat command to print out the contents of that file.
Copy the password text and then paste the value into
the administrator password field on the screen.
Next we are prompted to customize Jenkins via plugins.
We will cover plugins in more detail later on in this course.
Right now click the option "select plugins to install",
and then click on none at the top of the next screen.
Then install to continue.
Jenkins will not install any plugins starting out,
giving us a completely clean install of Jenkins.
After that Jenkins will prompt us to create an admin account.
We will use this account most of the time initially
until we get to the security section of the course.
I'm going to call the username admin and
then provide a password and then confirm it.
I'm using "Admin Account" for the full name.
Once done click save and finish, and then start using Jenkins.
Now you should be on the main page of Jenkins.
Once installed Jenkins will be running as a service or daemon,
which means Jenkins will automatically be started
in the background whenever your system restarts.
If you need to you can use Mac's "Launch Daemon"
control tool to load and unload the Jenkins service.
That is "org.jenkins-ci.plist" via the command line.
Remember to issue those commands using
"sudo" since they require admin rights.
Great, we have just blown through a lot
of installation and configuration steps.
If that was too fast or you need more
detail see the lecture resources
With Jenkins and related tools set up
we are ready to start using Jenkins,
which we will do in the next section of this course.


=== Security in Jenkins ===


--- LInux Installation ---

Welcome, in this lecture, I'll provide an overview
of my Linux installation process for this course.
Like I've mentioned before you
might feel like this is overkill;
in that case feel free to skip this video or browse
the installation notes at the end of the section.
Since there are literally hundreds of distributions
of Linux, which is a major advantage of using Linux,
It's impossible for me to cover
all of them or even most of them.
Instead I'm just going to focus on my
favorite distribution called Linux Mint,
with occasional reference to other major
distribution families when needed.
Linux Mint is part of the Debian family and
is just downstream of the Ubuntu to project.
I've made several adjustments to the desktop and to
the terminal to appear better during the videos.
In this lesson I will set up several
common tools, including Git,
and then we will install Java, Maven, and of course Jenkins.
I use Google Chrome in all my training
courses to keep things consistent.
To follow along exactly you can
operationally install Chrome as well.
Go to "google.com/chrome".
Accept the agreement and download the Debian style package.
Once the package is downloaded just open the file to run
the package installer, and then install the package.
After installation Google Chrome will appear in the menu.
For easy access I'll add it to the desktop and the panel.
I will also make several adjustments to
Chrome to show up better in the videos.
Now open your terminal and update your system:
"sudo apt-get update", then press enter.
After that's done, "sudo apt-get upgrade -y", then press enter.
On nearly all Linux Mint systems
I like to install a standard set
of tools like nano, the zip
utilities, and Git source control:
"sudo apt-get install -y nano wget
curl zip unzip git", then press enter.
Depending on your system some of these
tools may already be installed.
Since one of the tools we just installed was Git, we
need to provide a little bit of configuration for it.
Let's Git about the user: "git config --global user.name";
space; and then double quotes put your name; then press enter.
"git config --global user.email"; space; then in
double quotes your email address, then press enter.
And let's set the core editor to nano, at least for now:
"git config --global core.editor nano", then press enter.
Which we can now test with: "git config --global -e".
Once that's done close nano with "control+X".
With Linux Mint we can use the
package manager to install open JDK.
"sudo apt-get install -y openjdk-8-jdk openjdk-8-jdk-headless",
then press enter.
For server based software the headless JDK is needed.
Once everything is installed we can ask Java for
the version: "java -version", then press enter.
To install Maven open your browser and go
to "maven.apache.org", then go to download.
Once on the download page copy the link to the binary
tarball or "tar.gz" file, then open your terminal.
We need to login as root, so "sudu su -l", then press enter.
Next we need to change directory
into the place to install Maven.
In my case I want to install it under "usr/local",
so "cd /usr/local", then press enter.
Next we're going to use "wget" to download the tarball:
"wget"; space; and then paste in the URL to the tarball.
Once the tarball has been downloaded
we need to expand the tarball archive:
"tar -xvzf"; space; and then the tarball name
which you should be able to use tab
completion to help with, then press enter.
Once the tarball has been expanded we need to change
ownership to the resulting directory containing Maven.
"chown -R root.root"; space; and then the folder name
which usually follows the pattern. "apache-Maven-",
and then whatever version number you downloaded.
After that we need to change the permissions so that
everyone can see into the Maven installation directory:
"chmod 755"; space; and then the directory name,
"apache-maven-" whatever version you have.
Next I like to create a symbolic link to make
a shorter path for the install of Maven.
This approach also makes it easy to try
out different versions of maven later on:
"ln -s"; space; and then the folder name that we
currently have "apache-maven-" our version number;
space; and then simply "maven"; then press enter.
Now let's clean up after ourselves by deleting the downloaded
tarball: "rm"; space; and then the tarball filename.
Now we need to update our ".bashrc" file.
First we need type exit to exit out the root session.
Once we're back to our user session type "cd" to
make sure that we're in our user's home directory.
Then open ".bashrc" with your favorite editor.
Type the lines "export MAVEN_HOME" in all caps; '=';
and then the path to the Maven
symbolic link, "/usr/local/maven".
Then, on the next line, we need to update our path:
"export path=", and the first item is the existing path,
'$'; then in curly braces "PATH";
the next path element, separated by colon, will reference
the "MAVEN_HOME" variable we just defined earlier,
"$"; then after that "/bin".
Now, after we save the file and close our editor, return to
the terminal and verify with "mvn -v", then press enter.
While I have used other text editors in the past I
recently standardized on Atom within all my courses.
Open your web browser and go to "atom.io",
and then download the ".deb" package.
Once downloaded, open the file which
will run in the package installer.
Simply install the package, which will require admin rights.
Once complete, Atom should be available
within the menu under programming.
I like to add Atom to the desktop
and the panel for easy access.
Atom should be set up on the terminal as well.
We can test it out by opening the
terminal program and typing "which atom",
which will see if the "atom" command is on our path.
Great, since it is, let's try opening
Atom: "atom", and then press enter.
Once Atom loads, take a few moments
to clear all the welcome pages.
Now to the main event: installing Jenkins 2 on our system.
Open your browser and go to "jenkins.io", and
then under downloads choose "Ubuntu/Debian".
That will take us to a page with instructions on
how to add the Jenkins repository to our system.
Open your terminal and then copy and paste
the first line in the instructions.
That will add a certificate key needed by "apt-get". n
Next, instead of editing the exact file mentioned, create
a new file with your text editor, remember as sudo.
"sudo atom /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list"
With your editor open copy and then paste the package
repository line into the new file and then save.
With all that done let's update and then install Jenkins.
Back in the terminal: "sudo apt-get update", then press enter.
Next "sudo apt-get install -y jenkins", then press enter.
Once Jenkins is installed, it will be
accessible at local host on port 8080.
During the first time Jenkins will walk
you through getting Started wizard.
You'll need to copy a temporary password
created during the install process
and paste it into the administrator password field.
For example "sudo cat
/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword"
Next we will be prompted to customize Jenkins via plugins.
We will cover plugins in more detail later in the course.
Click the option to select plugins
to install, and then click on
none at the top of the next
screen, then install to continue.
Jenkins will not install any plugins starting out,
giving us a completely clean install of Jenkins.
After that Jenkins will prompt us to create an admin account.
We will use this account most of the time initially
until we get to the security section of the course.
I'm going to call the username admin,
provide a password, and then confirm it.
I'm using "Admin Account" for the full name.
Once done click save and finish, and then start using Jenkins.
Now you should be on the main page of Jenkin;
finally we are ready to use Jenkins.
Sometimes you need to start, stop, or restart
Jenkins using the service or daemon.
Linux Mint uses the System D init system, which
uses the "systemctl" command to control Jenkins.
To stop use "sudo systemctl stop jenkins"
To start use the same command, except
use "start" instead of "stop".
And then finally, to restart, same command
again but use restart instead of start.
Great, we have just blown through a lot
of installation and configuration steps.
If that was too fast, or you need more
detail, see the lecture resources.
With Jenkins and related tools set up
we are ready to start using Jenkins,
which we will do in the next section of the course.


=== AWS Lightsail for Jenkins Production ===


--- The Basics Overview ---

In this section you will be introduced to the Jenkin's
user interface during a bit of an orientation.
We will create our first jobs.
Granted they will be very basic, but
they will serve the purpose well enough.
Work with the job, including running the job and
reviewing the build status including failed builds.
Disable, enable, rename, copy, and finally delete our jobs.
After that we will do a bit of Jenkins management
by exploring the main Jenkin's management page,
and some of the smaller items under that page.
Research, install, update, enable, and disable plugins,
including installing a custom version of a plugin.
Change the Jenkins configuration; for example
increase the number of build executers is available.
And finally set up the tools for Jenkins
to use like Git, Java, and maven.
All of this will provide a good starting
point for the rest of this course
as we go deeper into building up a
Java base CI workflow in Jenkins.


=== Scaling Jenkins in AWS Lightsail ===


--- The First Job ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to begin
our orientation of Jenkins by creating a job.
First I'm going to open up my browser and go to our local
Jenkins installation, which is at "localhost:8080".
This opens up our local Jenkins installation.
If you land on the logon page provide your username and
password for the admin account we created earlier.
Then click log in.
Otherwise, if you reach this page
immediately after the installation,
then Jenkins may remember you from
before and place you on the dashboard.
Once on the dashboard notice, on the left hand side,
that we have several items which are high level;
we have our build queue, which there's nothing in
the queue, and we have our build executer status.
We'll go to this more as we build jobs.
And, right in the middle, when you first
start and there aren't any jobs created
you'll have a nice little inviting message to create a new job.
Let's do that now; click on the “Create new job” link.
We land on the new item or new job
page, which we will visit often.
In Jenkins jobs and projects are interchangeable,
so keep that in mind as we navigate around.
Since we did not install any plugins
during our installation process
we are presented with only one type of project that
comes natively with Jenkins: the Freestyle project.
Alright. Let's provide a name in
the item name field at the top.
Let's call our first job hello world and then click on the
freestyle project, which is the only option right now.
And finally click on the OK button.
The next screen is to actually configure this job.
Technically the job or project is already created and
available in Jenkins, but only with default configuration.
However most of the time we will want
to change the default configuration
by adding build steps or other instructions to the job
Before moving on let's review this page.
Again, since we didn't install any plugins,
there isn't a whole lot on this page yet.
However we can see that Jenkins can provide some
reasonable basic functionality as it stands now.
You can navigate around quickly by
clicking on the tabs at the top
to jump directly to specific parts of the configuration page.
Another reason why there's not a lot here is that
the bulk of the work can be done with build steps,
which are added individually, as well as post
build actions, which happen after the build.
Lets start off with our first build step.
I'm going to click on "Add build step",
which takes me to a nice drop down.
Since I'm on a Windows system I'm going to
select "Execute Windows batch command".
If you are on Mac or Linux choose execute shell instead.
Before entering the command in our command box here in Jenkins
let's try it out on the command line first.
In this case, since I'm running a Windows batch command,
I will need to open the windows command prompt,
which I have set up on my taskbar.
You can also find it on the start menu, which
you will find it in the Windows system folder.
If you are running Mac or Linux open your terminal.
In this particular case the command will work
exactly the same way in either shell environment.
The command we're going to use is "echo"
Type echo, space, and then double
quotes "hi", then press enter.
And, as you might imagine, the echo command simply echoes
or repeats whatever you pass into the echo command.
Such a simple command is practically universal.
This is all we're going to have Jenkins do right now.
Of course we're going to do much more elaborate things later.
Now that we're done with the command prompt or terminal
let's close it and return to Jenkins in the browser.
Back on the configuration page, in the build section,
type in the same command in the command text box:
"echo"; space; "hi" in double quotes.
Once we've done that we can click on the save button.
Great. After saving the configuration for our
first job it lands us on our project's main page.
I'm currently on the main page of
our project, also known as a job.
Since we're here I'm going to click on the build now
button to fire off our jobs execution. Click that now.
You can see the build was scheduled and responds very
quickly under the build history with a blue ball.
The blue ball actually means success,
and if we click on the ball we can
see the console output for that job.
Like I demonstrated a few moments ago using the "echo" command
simply prints out whatever you pass into it back to the
console, which Jenkins dutifully captures in its logs.
If I wanted to I could simply see the output as plain text.
But I will warn you that if you do that you
will need to use your browser's back button
to get back to the Jenkin's interface.
Another piece of the Jenkins UI is that
we need to take notice of the breadcrumb,
which is this listing where you are in the Jenkins UI.
We have Jenkins at the top level, hello world
which is the name of our job or project,
and then which build number I'm on, which I'm on build "#1".
I can click on build number one to return
to the main page for this specific build.
I can get back to the console output by
clicking on the console output menu item.
I also have the option to delete the build,
which I may do later but not right now.
I can click on "Back to project" or click
on "Hello World", which is our project.
We just created our first job in
Jenkins and ran our first build.
Granted it didn't do a lot, but we had to start somewhere.
In the next lesson we're going to
continue looking at the Jenkins UI
by returning to the Jenkins dashboard
now that we have our first job created.


=== Course Errata and Updates ===


--- Jenkins Dashboard ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going
to continue our Jenkins orientation
by looking at the additional features of the Jenkins interface.
I'm currently on our first project's main page.
In the build history we have a successful build.
If I go up another level, up to our main dashboard,
we now have our job listed under an all tab or view,
which will list, by default, all the jobs
we created in our Jenkins interface.
On this listing of our jobs we start off
with the first item, which is the status.
The status tells us the last known state of our build.
If you hover over your mouse over the icon you'll
get a short description of the image or icon.
Blue balls, by default, are success.
We'll change that later in another lesson.
The next column over is the weather,
which shows us an aggregated trend of all
the builds that have happened recently.
Sunshine means that all the recent
builds have successfully run.
Just like before hovering the mouse over it gives
us a description of the current weather icon.
Next we have the name of the job and how
long ago the last successful build was,
along with the build number of that successful build.
The next column over is last failure.
Since we don't have any failures "N/A" is displayed.
In the last column we have the last duration,
which is how long the last build took,
which is super-fast since we really didn't do very much.
And then, in the final column, we have a build now button,
which will allow us to schedule an immediate build.
By clicking on that I scheduled a build immediately,
which will happen so fast that we won't
even see it in the build executers.
We'll have to drop back down to
"Hello World", which is our project.
Once we arrive we will see that we have a
second build, which is also successful.
Alright. Let's return to the dashboard.
Observe the times have changed slightly.
Now the last success was updated to build number two.
At the bottom of the view table we can change the
size of the icons from small, medium, and large.
For now let's leave it on large.
Finally we have a few links that
are right under the table of jobs.
The first one is a link to a legend, which takes us to a page
describing all the different built status and weather icons.
We will see most of these actions throughout the course,
but this page is handy when first starting out.
After reviewing this page return to the dashboard.
The last three links are just different RSS feeds.
RSS is a variation of the ".xml" file format, which is a
specialized text format much like HTML for web pages.
RSS stands for Really Simple Syndication
and is a format that describes information
in a digestible, news feed like, data stream
for consumption and display by newsreaders.
Honestly RSS was a much bigger deal a few years
ago, but it is still important to some people.
If you click on one of the RSS links
you'll need to use your browser's back button or
functionality to return back to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson we took a brief look at the Jenkins
dashboard now that we have a job for it to display.
Next we will fail the build on purpose
and then disable and re-enable jobs.
Of course we will return to the dashboard to see
how each of these job states impact the view.


=== Conclusion ===


--- Failing Jobs ---

In this video we're going to continue looking
at jobs by intentionally failing our job.
After that we will disable and then re-enable our job.
I'm currently on our project's main page and, based on
our build history, we've had two successful builds.
If I click on "Build Now" it will schedule an immediate build
and then Jenkins will respond with another successful build.
However I want to change this so it will fail next time.
We need to access our job's configuration page.
We could use the configure menu item on the left.
If we return to the dashboard we could also hover
our mouse over the name of our project and then,
when the dropdown carrot appears, click that
to expand out a menu for that job or project.
Again we have a "Configure" menu option.
I mainly want to show how you can often
get to the same place in multiple ways
and, to that point, get to the
configure page the way you prefer.
Once on the configure page click on the build
tab to jump down to that part of the page.
Let's change our Windows batch command, or shell
command depending on your operating system.
In this box I will change it to a command
that doesn't exist in windows or bash.
We'll just add a 'D' to the echo
command and then save that change.
Saving the change lands us back on our project's main page.
Now schedule another build.
This time we have a red ball, which means
build number 4 was not successful.
Like I demonstrated before we can click
on the ball itself to go to the console.
But we also have the option to click on the date.
Doing so takes us to that build's particular page.
And, from here, I also have the
option to view the console output.
The console output shows us exactly what happened,
including each command that was entered.
We see here that the "decho" command
or decho command does not exist.
All right, so now that we've seen that, I'm going to go up
to our project level and now up to the dashboard level.
At the dashboard we see that our status is now a red
ball, and it shows the status of the last build.
We also have our weather icon that shows partly cloudy,
which means that one of the last four builds has failed.
Well, let's change the weather.
Since we know that the build is currently failing we
can keep building the project several more times.
Each time I recommend refreshing your web browser
so the last status is correctly displayed.
Watch how the weather icon becomes progressively worse.
At around 4 out of 5 builds failing the weather
icon shows a thunderstorm cloud with lightning,
which is really bad build weather.
Let's round it of; let's make sure
that the last 5 builds have failed.
Checking the status with the mouse
shows all recent builds have failed.
Like I mentioned before the other stats
for the build have been adjusting to.
Let's continue by disabling the job or project.
From the dashboard go to the project.
Once on the job's main page one of the
items available is to disable the job.
Perhaps, in this situation, I notice that I'm
having a lot of problems with this particular build
and maybe it's just really hard
to diagnose and find the problem.
So, for now, I just want to disable the job.
Now I realize this job is contrived and very simple
to fix, but this is for illustration purposes.
So I'm going to disable the job: click on "Disable Job".
And now the job has been disabled.
When the project or job is disabled you
won't be able to trigger any builds;
the build now item is missing from the left menu.
Also, if the build is supposed to trigger automatically,
that won't happen either until we've re-enabled the project.
If I go out to the dashboard under status we have
a gray ball, which means this job is disabled.
It still retains all the other items listed with
the exception of the schedule a build icon.
Let's dive back into our project by clicking on "Hello World",
and then click on the "Enable" button which re-enables the job.
Also we could enable and disable jobs
from the job configuration page.
In fact the enable/disable buttons on the project status page
are simply a shortcut to the setting on the configuration page.
Now, if we go back to the dashboard, we see that
the last known build status is displayed again.


=== Bonus: Full Install on Windows ===


--- Copy and Rename Jobs ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to copy and
rename our job to create more jobs for us to work with.
Sometimes we make mistakes or we just
change our minds about how jobs are named.
That's ok, since it's rather easy to
rename a job or project in Jenkins.
From the dashboard, go to your job.
Once on the job status page notice how the
name of the project is part of the URL.
You can grab this URL from your web browser's
address bar and save it for later,
bookmark it or email it to a coworker: whatever you might
want to do when you want to share a specific page you're on.
In this case the URL also has embedded spaces as encoded "%20".
I'm not a fan of embedded spaces in URLs.
We can fix that, but first let's rename the project entirely.
Go to the configure page for this project.
At the top the name can be changed.
Doing so renames the project and it will affect the
URL associated with the project and any sub-pages.
When we change the name to "Problem World", then click save.
When we do we will be presented with a confirmation
screen since this is potentially a disruptive change.
Click yes to continue.
Notice how the URL changed, again still with spaces.
Let's change the name again by going back into configure.
We can actually keep the friendly name
while also making the web page URL better.
However the way that Jenkins saves the
rename we will have to do this in two steps.
Before we change the name copy the current
name into your system's clipboard.
Let's rename the project again to a shorter
name that will be used for the URL.
The "Project name" field controls the URL used by
Jenkins to refer to the project and related pages.
Now let's pick a name that is more web friendly.
I prefer names that are short, all lowercase, and
do not contain spaces or special characters.
Let's use "problem" as the name.
Great, now save the change.
Again proceed through the confirmation page.
Great. Now the project URL is a lot better
and web friendly, but not as user friendly.
Now return to the configure page.
Once back there let's do two things.
First let's provide a description;
it really doesn't matter what you type,
I'm going to use "A problematic project".
Then, instead of clicking save, click Apply.
That will save the project's configuration
without leaving the configure page.
You should see a status banner briefly
appear at the top saying "Saved".
Now, while still in the general section,
find the “Advanced” button and click on it.
It will expand out several more options.
Scroll down a bit and find the item "Display Name".
Within that field paste the value that is hopefully still
in your clipboard, which should be "Problem World".
Now click on Save,
which will return us to our project's main or
status page after saving its new configuration.
Now, look at the changes.
The web URL remains the same short path from earlier
but the display name is used for most other
places, including on the bread crumb trail.
This will be the name displayed to the user most of the time,
which we can see on this main project page
along with the description we entered.
And, if we return to the dashboard,
"Problem World" is displayed on the view.
Before we finish up this lesson let's create a copy of
this job so that we will have two jobs to work with.
While on the dashboard, click on the "New Item" menu item.
This is one way to create more jobs or projects
after the initial job has been created.
Once on the new item page it looks slightly different.
Provide a name for the new job, let's use "awesome".
Again, since I know this will be used as the project
name, I'm specifying a web friendly name here.
Now, instead of selecting a freestyle project,
go down to the copy from field and start by
typing the name of our existing project.
One thing to note this field is looking for the project
name not the display name, which is simply "problem".
This field will attempt to autofill the options.
We should only have to type in a few
characters before problem is displayed below.
You can either finish typing the project name
or select it from the options given below.
Once that is done click on the OK button,
which takes us to the configure page.
Nearly all the previous configuration settings from the problem
job are copied over to this new job, like the description.
However the project name has the item
name provided from the previous page.
While we are towards the top of this
page, let's update the description.
I'm changing it to "An awesome project".
Now, if we expand out the "Advanced Settings" under "General",
you'll see the display name has been cleared.
Let's fill in a more user friendly name here, "Awesome World".
If you want to use project name for nice
URLs and display names for friendlier ones
doing this sequence while creating new items will
save you from doing the previous two-step process.
Great, now click Apply.
Now let's fix our error we intentionally
created in an earlier lesson.
Jump down to the build section and
removed the 'D' from the echo command.
And, while we're here, let's have the
echo command say something else.
I'm using "This is simple, but awesome".
Great, now click save.
Once on the project status page
you'll notice we have no builds yet.
That's because, although we copied an existing project,
Jenkins created a new project complete with its own history,
which we can start by clicking on "Build Now".
Great we should now have our first
build, which should be successful.
Let's return to the dashboard.
Now the dashboard lists both projects with their
respective status, weather, and other build information.
In this lesson we renamed our existing job and went over
how that might impact how you reference your job location.
We also looked at updating our job name to be web friendly
while maintaining a user friendly
name while in the Jenkins interface.
Finally we ended by creating a copy of the job,
so that we now have two jobs to work with.
In the next lesson we will dip our toes into the
Jenkins management side by working with plugins.


=== Bonus: Special Offers ===


--- Update Plugins ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to research,
install, and update plugins in Jenkins.
As I mentioned before plugins are the main way
to extend functionality provided by Jenkins.
Jenkins does actually come with some native
functionality, like running batch or shell scripts,
but the native features are fairly limited.
Most people install many plugins to
provide a rich feature set for Jenkins.
In fact the set up wizard during the installation process
recommended several very common and specially
vetted plugins to start things off.
However I walked you through installing Jenkins
without any initial plug ins to keep things simple.
Now let's install a few plug ins directly inside of Jenkins.
From the dashboard cick on the "Manage Jenkins" menu link.
This is the manage Jenkins page, which will go over more later.
For now click on the manage plugins item,
which brings us to the plugin manager page.
Once there you will land on the update tab.
This page would list all the plugins that need updating;
however, since we don't have any
plugins, nothing needs updating.
If we jump over to installed we can
confirm no plugins are installed.
We need several plugins to start out and
there are several ways to install plugins.
The easiest, and the way I recommend
the most, is to use the available tab.
The problem is this tab can be a
little cumbersome to deal with.
The best thing to do is to research on the Jenkins web site
and then use the available have to
select the plug ins to be installed.
Open another window or tab in your browser to "jenkins.io".
Find the "Plugins" menu item.
Keep in mind that I don't have any control over
this website, so it might change a bit over time.
Once on the main plugins page do a search for the
first plug in we need to install: the Git plugin.
When we search we will see it among the top
results, perhaps even the first result provided.
Click on that item so we can confirm that is what we want.
Once on the Git plugin page review this
page about this particular plugin.
You'll notice things, like the last
release date, which is hopefully recent
and a list of dependencies, which
Jenkins may install automatically.
As we scroll down we will see other information,
like important warnings or notes about this plugin,
perhaps documentation on how to use it
and even a change log for the plug in.
Not all plug ins had this level of support and documentation.
Anyway scroll back to the top and you'll notice the name.
Back in Jenkins, while on the available tab, use
the filter search box and type in "git plugin".
The plug in we want should be listed.
You can confirm this by right clicking and opening the
link in a tab from the listing you're interested.
As we were researching before, you
certainly have the right plug in.
Now, back in Jenkins, check the box next to the "Git
plugin", and then click on "Install without restart".
That option allows Jenkins to download and
install the plugin without requiring a restart.
This isn't always a good option, but it's worth trying.
If the plugin ends up installing a bunch of dependencies
it's best to restart Jenkins, just to be safe.
Great, we got several plugins
installed simply by selecting one.
The Jenkins plugin install process will automatically
resolve download and install any plugin dependencies
Before we restart Jenkins I want to install a plugin manually.
Return to the web browser tab on the Jenkins
plugins page, and then return to the search page.
Then search for "greenballs".
This plugin will change all blue balls to green.
Once on the green balls plugin page, while you
can review this page like any other plugin,
what I'm interested in is the archives.
Normally I'm happy with the latest version of plugins,
but in some cases you might want to
install an older version directly.
Click on "Archives", and then click on any past version.
I'm going with 1.14.
Click on that item, which downloads an ".hpi" file,
which is basically like a zip file that
Jenkins is expecting to contain a plug in.
Once the ".hpi" file finishes downloading return to
Jenkins and navigate back to the plugin manager page.
Now click on the "Advanced" tab.
Now scroll down until you find the "Upload Plugin" item.
In the file field choose the file on your local
system, probably in the "Downloads" folder.
And then click "Upload", right underneath.
With all these plugins installed it's best to restart Jenkins.
You can do that with your operating system's service commands.
However, for a simple restart, that
can be done directly in the browser.
Return to the Jenkins dashboard and, once there,
modify your web browser's address bar to add
"/restart" to the URL, then press enter.
If you did that Jenkins should send you to a confirmation page.
Click on the "Yes" button to continue.
Once Jenkins is back you'll probably
end up on the login screen.
If so you can check the "Remember me" check box.
Now log in like normal.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard
the blue icon has turned green.
As you can imagine that's the work of the green balls plugin.
Let's return to the plugin manager one more time.
This time I can use the bread crumb
trail menus to go directly there.
Once back on the plugin manager we now see the
green balls plugin has an update available.
Of course I just walked through how
to install an older release manually
so naturally that particular plugin
has a newer version available.
You and your team should determine a
good update policy and testing strategy.
Some plugins or updates can cause conflicts
or stop working with your existing projects.
I recommend reviewing each plugin's release
notes that you are considering updating
and testing everything on a non-production instance of Jenkins.
However, in this case, I know that the
latest version of green balls is safe.
You will also notice that we have a last
update notice along with a "Check Now" button.
This is useful to get the latest update
information before applying updates.
After the update check the box next to green balls,
and then click on "Download now and install
after restart", which is the safest approach.
Once the download is completed, along
with any possible dependencies,
we can check the box next to the restart option.
Or you can use the URL trick like before.
If Jenkins doesn't refresh within a few minutes,
or if the web page comes back a bit strange,
just refresh the page in your browser or return to
the Jenkins dashboard using a link on the page.
Once back on the dashboard let's
return to the plugin manager again.
This time go to the installed tab.
We have a fairly long list of plugins
that are installed in Jenkins right now.
The grayed out plugins are the ones
that are dependencies of other plugins,
which means they can't be uninstalled or disabled
without first doing the same to the top level plug in.
If you click on one Jenkins will tell you that it can't be
disabled or uninstalled, and which plugins depend on it.
Some dependency plugins have
multiple plugins that depend on it.
For example the "Mailer Plugin" has several plugins like that.
Lets disable the green balls plugin
by unchecking the box next to it.
Then scroll down to the very bottom of the page.
There should be a button to allow you to restart.
Click that button.
If that is not visible for some reason, make
sure you unchecked the green balls plug in
and use the restart URL trick to force a restart of Jenkins.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard the green balls plugin
will be disabled and the green status will be back to blue.
Sometimes you need to disable or even uninstall plugins that
are acting up or otherwise not playing nice with others.
Well, I actually liked the green balls plug
in, so I will return to the plugin manager
and go back to the "Installed" tab, and
check the box to enable green balls.
Now restart Jenkins and return to the dashboard
Green balls should be back.
In this lesson we covered researching
and managing plugins in Jenkins.
In the next lesson we will learn about
deleting built and jobs we no longer want.

--- Delete a Job ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going
to continue our Jenkins orientation
by deleting specific builds as well as the entire project.
I'm currently on the Jenkins dashboard.
Let's go into our failing project, which is "Problem World".
Once on the status page we could delete
individual builds if we so desire.
This assumes that you have proper
permissions to delete the build.
One way to delete an offending build is to click on
the date, which will load the build's status page.
Then, on that page, you should have, on the
left hand side, a "Delete Build" item.
Click on delete build for "Build #6".
Then, on the next page, you will be asked to confirm
whether or not you really want to delete the build.
For the most part deleting builds is
something you should avoid doing,
because it does tamper with the build history.
Because of that I would only do this towards the beginning,
when I'm just trying to debug the build process.
Once I start using a job or project for real
I will avoid deleting individual builds
unless I had a very compelling reason.
It just depends on how sacred you think the build history is.
I think it is modestly sacred and, for Jenkins,
the first five builds are very sacred.
After that it really depends.
OK. If you want to delete the build click on the "Yes" button.
Once back on the project status page review the build history.
We have a build 4, 5, and then 6 is
missing, and then we go directly to 7.
Another way to delete the build is to
hover over the build item's number.
Hover over build 4 and then a down carrot will appear,
which will allow us to click on the dropdown menu.
Part of the dropdown menu will allow us to delete the build.
Like before we will be presented with a "Are you
sure" page, which we need to click yes to continue.
Great. Now, reviewing the build history, we have 1,
2, 3, 5, 7, and 8; now both 4 and 6 are missing.
Well, what if you don't want the project at all?
To delete the entire project on the project's
main page you can click "Delete Project".
Doing so will prompt me: are you sure you
want to delete Project Problem World?
Click OK in order to continue.
Doing so returns us back to our dashboard.
There is another way to delete a project.
Use the down carrot menu directly on the dashboard.
We still have one more project; let's test it out on that one.
Hover your mouse over the name "Awesome world",
and then expand down the menu, and
click on the item "Delete project".
Then, like before, you will be prompted
to confirm this destructive process.
Click OK to continue.
Great, we are now back to the way Jenkins was when
we first started, with no projects or jobs listed.

--- Manage Jenkins ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to briefly look
at some items within the management section of Jenkins.
Form the Jenkins dashboard click on the
"Manage Jenkins" menu item on the left,
which takes us to the manage Jenkins main page.
That menu item, and the ability to
access the management pages of Jenkins,
depends on the access level of your logged in user.
Starting in Jenkins 2 the installation process
requires setting up an admin account,
which is the account we are logged in as right now.
We will cover security a bit later, but right
now we are logged in as an admin user,
which allows us to access all the management pages on Jenkins.
While we are here I'll briefly cover several of the items
before moving on to the system and tool configuration.
The first item, which we will cover a bit later, is
the main configuration page for the Jenkins server.
Global security, also something we
will cover later on in this course,
is where we will configure how people log in
and general security policies for the server.
Credentials is where we set up and manage passwords, API keys,
SSH keys and other credentials we would use with
plugins or connecting to other systems from Jenkins.
Global tools, which we will cover soon,
is where we will configure the tools we will
use with Jenkins, like Git, Java, and Maven
"Reload Configuration from Disk" does exactly what you think:
it reloads the Jenkins configuration from the system disk.
We'll cover this a bit later, but Jenkins' configuration is
stored in files in its installation directory on the system.
You would use this link if you made manual changes
to those files directly on the file system.
If you click it you will be prompted if you
really want to do this. I'll cancel for now.
Manage plugins is something we just covered.
System information contains system properties, which
a lot comes directly from the Java runtime engine.
We also have a list of environment variables Jenkins can use
and a list of plugins that are installed, their
version numbers, and if they are enabled or not.
Finally a link to the thread dumps page, which
is useful for very advanced troubleshooting.
Click on "Manage Jenkins" to return
to the main management page.
System log provides access to the log messages for Jenkins.
Load statistics is really more interesting
when we have a lot of activity on the server.
But, for now, there really isn't anything to see.
The Jenkins CLI can provide instructions and
access to the Jenkins command line tool,
which is really for advanced use cases like
automation and scripting tasks in Jenkins.
Script console is another advanced tool.
You can run Groovy code to interact
with Jenkins via an internal API.
If we run this provided example, we will get a list of plugins.
Of course you could do a bunch of cool things here but it
requires experience with the Groovy programming language.
Manage nodes is where we manage the build nodes, which is
where Jenkins actually runs builds including the master.
Jenkins supports scaling by adding build nodes
and, depending on the plugins installed, there
are many types of build nodes that can be used.
About Jenkins, this is what it sounds
like an about page for Jenkins.
It is neat to see how the Jenkins server is built
upon many open source components and libraries
in addition to the Jenkins source code itself.
We also have the links to each of the
licenses' pages for each of the plugins used.
Manage old data is only relevant if you update
to a newer version of Jenkins or plugins
and the configuration loaded on the file system
is designed to work for an older version
of Jenkins or the updated plugins.
Manage users is where we manage users while using
Jenkins' internal access management database,
which we are currently using.
We'll talk about this more in the
security section of the course.
Finally, prepare for shutdown.
This doesn't actually shut down the Jenkins server;
instead it helps you manage the quieting process.
That is, it puts up a banner informing users of an
upcoming shutdown and prevents new builds from starting.
Once all in progress builds complete you
can then turn off or restart Jenkins
using the Jenkins service or the restart URL trick.
That's all we have for now.
Of course, if you install plugins that provide
some type of configuration or management feature
this page will change to include that here as well.
We briefly looked at each of the items
on the main Jenkins management page.
While there are some items here that are
simply out of scope for this course
we have or will cover most of them, at least a little bit.
In fact our next lesson will go into the configure system page.

--- Jenkins Configuration ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to continue our Jenkins
orientation by setting up our Jenkins configuration.
We should be already the main manage Jenkins page.
If not navigate there now.
From manage Jenkins click on the top item, "Configure System".
Right now there isn't a lot here; this page will expand
greatly as we add more plugins to our Jenkins server
and we will be making occasional
trips back to this page accordingly.
We can take a quick look around before changing any values.
If you want to know about something you can use the
question mark icon to expand out some help text.
For now there are just two settings we will look at.
First we have the number of executers.
That refers to the number of
concurrent build threads or processes
that we can have at the same time, specifically on the master.
By default Jenkins sets this value to 2,
which, for most systems, is rather low.
I recommend setting it to a value somewhere around
1 to 2 times the number of CPU or cores
you have available on your system.
For example, if you are running on 4
cores consider a setting between 4 to 8.
What about hyper-threading or similar technology?
Well I still recommend limiting it
to two to three times per core.
In a four core system with hyper threading you could
probably use 8 to 12 executers without too many issues.
You will likely need to observe the performance
and make adjustments in order to find
the right setting for your system.
I'm going to stay relatively conservative with 4 executers.
Once there are four concurrent builds going on
any additional builds will queue up
until an executer becomes available.
After I set the value to 4 click apply so that we
can save the configuration and remain on this page
To see the results of the setting
change just refresh your browser page.
Now the build executers is just expanded to four.
The other setting to review is the system message.
This places a message at the top of the Jenkins dashboard,
which is great when making announcements to your users,
like a planned maintenance window on the weekend.
Let's try it out: "Planned downtime starting tomorrow at
11 pm and will last for 30 minutes for system updates".
Once you have typed in that message click
"Save" to save the configuration changes
and return to the Jenkins dashboard.
There we will see a system message displayed.
Now return to the system page in "Manage Jenkins".
Once there remove the system message and click save.
Now the message is gone.
Great. Let's return to "Manage Jenkins".
Finally it is time to configure the
tools we are going to use with Jenkins.
Click on "Global Tool Configuration".
Here we will set up or configure Jenkins, Java, and Maven.
Let's start with the Java JDK.
So under JDK, JDK installations, click on "Add JDK".
By default Jenkins is going to have
"Install automatically" checked,
but we already installed the JDK so I'm
going to uncheck install automatically
Instead we need to fill in the name, which is any
label we want to give this installation of the JDK,
as well as the Java home, which is the full
path to where Java is currently installed.
Since we installed Java and the JDK earlier
you should know where that is located.
For this I can use a trick;
since I know the Maven's version command will
give us both the path to the JDK and Maven home
I can use one command to get both pieces of information.
I'll open up Git bash on Windows or my terminal on Mac
OS or Linux and then type "mvn -v", then press enter.
The Java home should be displayed,
probably to the "jre" beneath the JDK.
So only copy the path to the JDK, then return to
Jenkins and paste the value into the Java home field.
Since this is a Java 8 or JDK 1.8 installation I
will give the name "Java 8" in the name field,
then click Apply to save the changes so far.
Next we have Git.
By default Git will be configured to use the Git command.
As long as Jenkins has access to the Git command,
you won't need to specify the full path.
If, for some reason, Jenkins isn't able to reach the
Git command you will need to find Git on your system
and update the path to the Git executable
field to the full path to the Git command.
If you install Git, like we covered
earlier, you should be fine.
Let's continue on with the Maven installation settings.
We already have easy access to that information;
we're going to be following the same process.
Click on "Add Maven".
Let's give this Maven installation a name.
I'm going to uncheck install automatically and, like before,
Maven home is the full path to where we have Maven installed
Return to Git bash or your terminal and copy
the Maven home value to your clipboard.
We're actually done with Git bash or terminal, so exit out.
Then return to Jenkins and paste the
Maven path into the Maven home field.
Since there are no further changes to
make I'm going to click on "Save".
Great. Now we have returned to manage Jenkins.
Since we are done with system configuration and
management pages return to the Jenkins dashboard.
We just made several changes to our Jenkins system,
but we really won't see the benefits of
those changes until the next section,
where we will set up Maven specific projects in Jenkins.

--- Maven Projects Overview ---

Welcome, in this section, we will dive a bit deeper
with Jenkins by creating a Maven project in Jenkins.
However, before we get started within Jenkins, we will need
to validate the project is working outside of Jenkins first.
This eliminates potential issues that are external to Jenkins.
Once we confirm that our Maven project
is building outside of Jenkins
we will create and configure our Maven project
within Jenkins and then execute the project build.
Once the build has completed we will
review the results of the Maven project
to see how well Jenkins understands
Maven structured applications.
Also, while working within a Maven project, we
will reinforce and learn new aspects of Jenkins.
Finally we will take a quick dive under the hood as we look
at the workspace folder structure of Jenkins projects.
The next section will feature using GitHub with Jenkins.
Because of that you will need a GitHub
account to follow along exactly.
If you don't already have an account you can
sign up for a free account at "github.com".
Additionally I will warn you that GitHub
updates their web site and services often,
which means that some features might look a little different
or change location than what was shown in the course.

--- Confirm Maven Project Outside Jenkins ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
download and compile the next application
we're going to be using in this
section outside of Jenkins first.
To show which application we'll be
using for the rest of this section
I'm going to open up chrome and then I'm
going to "github.com/Jenkins-training".
Once that page loads I'm going to look for a
project called time-tracker. Click on that link.
This is a project that we will be using for the rest of
this section to demo the Maven based workflows in Jenkins.
However, I don't want you to work
directly with this repository;
Instead we will need to fork this repository
into your own GitHub account space.
That will allow us to make changes to the repository
and see the results accordingly in Jenkins.
To fork this repository, click on the fork button in the
top right-hand corner of the repository's main page.
Depending on whether or not you're
part of other GitHub organizations
you might see an intermediate page to
select where to fork this repository into.
For most other users you'll proceed directly to your
newly forked repository located on your account.
Once you have forked a copy of the time tracker Maven project
take a few moments to review the source
code that makes up this repository.
The top level has a few files and two folders.
The files are ".gitignore", which is a special file used
by Git to exclude unwanted files from the repository,
which is mostly useful for the developers of the project.
A license file that explains the license
agreement governing the source code.
On the public GitHub repositories that will normally
be some type of open source compatible license.
The ReadMe file, which is in markdown format,
which is a common way developers provide documentation
about their project and the repository.
And finally the maven ".pom" file, which describes
this project's dependency list and build instructions.
The ".pom" file also defines the submodules.
If we go into one of the folders each one
represents a Maven submodule project,
which, on its own, is a full Maven project.
from here the directory and file structure
is that of a normal Maven project.
I'll leave it at that; If you need more
information on how Maven projects work
you could check out my other courses that focus on Maven.
However, I'll walk you through everything you need to know
regarding how to build Maven projects
using Jenkins in this course.
Now that we have our own copy of the repository
let's make sure this project compiles outside of
Jenkins before we get started inside of Jenkins.
To do that, we need to clone this
repository to our local system.
To access the clone URL for this repository
click on the green "Clone or download"
button, which expands out some options.
Unless you know what you're doing
make sure you choose "Use HTTPS".
That will give us the HTTPS clone URL.
You can either copy the URL in the text
box or use the copy to clipboard button.
Either way you should have the HTTPS
URL in your system's clipboard.
On Windows we need to verify our steps
using the Windows command prompt
since that is the environment in which Jenkins
will run our Maven commands later on.
For Mac and Linux use your terminal program,
I'll point out the commands that are different.
Type "git clone"; space; then paste in the GitHub URL
that should be in your clipboard; then press enter.
Once the clone command has completed use the cd command
to change directory into the "time-tracker" folder.
"cd time-tracker", then press enter.
Then I'll use the "dir" command on Windows,
or the "ls" command or Mac or Linux
to list the files and folders at
the main level of the repository.
Since this project has a "pom.xml" this should be able
to run the Maven command directly from this folder.
Type in "mvn clean package", then press enter.
Once the Maven command has completed make sure
that we have a build success towards the end.
If you do that means the project is
in a successfully building state.
Now that we've confirmed this repository
and its containing projects will build,
we will close the Windows command
prompt or your terminal program.
I think it is important to remove Jenkins from the
troubleshooting process by attempting to run the Maven project,
or really any project, in the command line
environment that will be used by Jenkins.
Now that we have confirmed the Maven
project is working outside of Jenkins
we can now create a job to build the Maven
project, which we will do in the next lesson.

--- Maven Freestyle ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to set
up a freestyle job to build our Maven project.
Open or return to your web browser
and to the Jenkins web interface.
In previous lessons we created and then
deleted some freestyle projects in Jenkins.
That wasn't a big deal since those projects
were just "hello world" level projects.
Now let's do the same thing, but this time we
will build our Maven-based software project.
Either click on new item or click the link in
the middle of the page to create a new job.
Let's use "Maven Freestyle" as the name.
In this case I'm not overly concerned about embedded spaces.
While on this page you'll notice that I have a couple
more options besides just "Freestyle project".
That's because some dependency plugins that support
other project types were installed in previous lessons.
Like before choose freestyle project and click ok.
Once on the configuration page, click on the source
code management tab to jump down to that section.
Now click on Git since we will hook up this
project to our Git repository on GitHub.
Doing so will expand out several options related
to our Git repository for this project.
Under repositories paste in the HTTPS clone URL
from your copy of the time tracker project.
I have my GitHub account open in another tab in my browser
so I will jump back over there and make
sure the clone URL is in my clipboard.
Then I will jump back to Jenkins, and paste
in that URL into the repository URL field.
That will be it for now for this section,
the rest of the settings are fine.
We don't need any credentials since
this is a public repository.
The branch specified for the master branch
is fine, since I only have a master branch.
And we can leave the repository browser as
auto, which will be the case most of the time.
If you want click "Apply" to save our progress so far.
Now click on the build tab to jump down to the build section.
Once there, like we did in a previous section,
add the build step to execute a Windows batch command
or shell depending on your operating system.
In this case the command we will use here
will work equally as well in bash and shell.
Within the command box type the command: "mvn clean package".
That's actually the same Maven command
we used in the previous lesson,
so we are doing the exact same command here too.
Notice we aren't using any directory commands;
Jenkins will run the command specified
in the workspace for this project.
The workspace is the location where
Jenkins performs the active build,
and that directory is kept until the next build occurs,
which means we can inspect it after the build completes.
Jenkins will check out the code from the specified
Git repository, which is hosted on GitHub,
and place all the files and folders
in the workspace during the build.
After that Jenkins will execute any commands in the
command box in that workspace folder location.
When Maven runs it will look for its configuration
file named "pom.xml" in the current directory.
Now that we know how this job will work click "Save".
Once on the project status page, which is the default page
for a project, click on "Build Now" to start a build.
You should notice that it takes much
longer than the previous examples.
Of course Maven is doing much more, including
downloading a bunch of dependencies
before compiling and packaging up our built artifact.
Once the build is done refresh the browser page
to see the most up to date version of this page.
Hopefully this build was successful.
Click on the date of the build to access the main build page.
Once there you'll notice a few changes;
First, since this is a Git based project,
we have a few items related to that,
like the revision information in the middle of the
screen and a Git build data page for this build.
That page provides some Git specific information,
like the commit or branch used during the build.
Now, if we click on the console output,
we should see a lot more stuff here.
In fact you might even see a link
to the "Full Log" near the top
if any part of the build log was
omitted because of excessive length.
Clicking on that refreshes this page
with the full log, which is quite long.
However we can see the start of the log, including who
started it and where the workspace is located on our system.
We will also see the beginning steps of our build, which starts
with a bunch of Git commands provided by the Git plug in.
Then we will see the Maven command entered
in the command box for our build step.
The rest of the log is the output from the
Maven command, which is also captured here
and should look similar to the output of
the Maven command in the previous lesson.
If I scroll all the way to the end,
we should see the final parts of the Maven command
which ends with "BUILD SUCCESS" in all caps.
The last line comes from Jenkins.
Since Jenkins detects the batch or shell command executed
successfully Jenkins marks this build as successful.
Alright, let's return to the main page of our project.
This is one way to build a Maven project;
simply specify the Maven commands exactly as
you would in the command prompt or terminal.
This approach works just fine and can be applied to just about
any technology or build tools that run off the command line.
However Jenkins provides a Maven specific build step.
Now return to the configure page for this
project, then jump down to the build section
Remove the current build step and replace it with a
new build step, "Invoke top level Maven targets".
When you choose that option you will get a different set up.
We can choose which Maven install, which,
in this case, we can either specify Maven 3
or leave it as default; I'm going to choose Maven 3.
Then we can specify the Maven goals to run.
Jenkins will assume the "mvn" command, so
only specify the goals "clean package".
If you click on the "Advanced" button we are
given a lot more settings we can adjust.
If you have any questions about any of them
just click on the blue question mark to get
more information about a particular setting.
I'm not going to change anything right now, so just
click on "Save" to return to the project page.
Once there click on "Build Now" to trigger another build.
This time the build will go a bit faster since Maven has
already downloaded all the dependencies needed for the project
So let's check out the console output for the new build.
This time Jenkins didn't need to provide the full log
option since the logs for this build were much shorter.
We have the standard stuff at the top,
but, right after the "git" command,
we have the command Jenkins used to build our Maven project.
It's actually a bit different than the command
we used earlier, but it gets the job done.
In fact, if we look around the other
build pages, there isn't any differences
between using a batch or a shell command
build step and a Maven specific build step;
they both end up doing the same thing in the end.
However, since the Maven build step provides
easy access to more advanced Maven options,
and that build step can be used regardless
of the underlying operating system,
I tend to lean towards that build step when building
Maven projects with the freestyle project in Jenkins.
For now let's return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Once there we will see our project listed
in the all tab, like we've seen before.
In this lesson we set up a Maven base Java project to
build using the freestyle project or job in Jenkins.
We looked at using both a command build
step and then a Maven specific build step.
In the next lesson we will inspect the
contents of the project's workspace.

--- Jenkins Workspace ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to take a look at
the workspace that accompanies a Jenkins project or job.
I'm starting out in the Jenkins dashboard,
and I'm going to go into the project.
Once on the Maven freestyle project,
we see a couple of successful builds.
To look at the results, click on the workspace item and
Jenkins will show us the folder structure of our project
Depending on how far your build gets
will determine how much is shown here.
Jenkins Will start out each build process by downloading,
and in this case cloning, the
repository into the workspace location.
We should have the same set of files and folders
that are in our Git repository in GitHub.
Any built artifacts or temporary files created
during the build process will be here too.
Since our last build was successful, all the final build
artifacts will be available somewhere in the workspace.
Since this is a multi-module Maven project we will
have our "pom.xml" at the root of our project,
as well as the two modules, core and web.
The contents of these folders are almost
the same from our GitHub repository.
We also have a ".git" folder, which
is our Git source repository.
For each of these files we can click on the view link
in Chrome to display the text file directly in Chrome.
You could try it out on a few files,
although I don't recommend using that link
on binary files like ".jar" or ".war" files.
Now let's dive into the core folder.
Within the core folder we have our
"pom.xml" for this submodule.
In addition we have an "src" folder, which contains all
the source code and resources for this maven module.
We also have a target folder.
If we dive into the target folder we will see the artifact
that may have been generated as part of the build process.
We also have several other folders within the target folder.
These are temporary or intermediate build
folders and sometimes report folders.
All right, let's go back a few levels.
Back at the root of the project in our workspace go into web.
Here we will see our "pom.xml",
as well as the "src/main/webapp"
and a "target" folder
like in the other module.
Click on that, and we have our ".war" file, which
is the final deployable artifact for this project.
Like in the other module we might also have a
few intermediate build folders here as well.
Go back to the root of our workspace, since we're done for now.
Now return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson we reviewed the files and
folders found in the project workspace,
which is used by and the results of
the last build for this project.
In the next lesson we will install a special plugin to
provide even greater integration between Jenkins and Maven.

--- Maven Jobs ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to install a new plugin
that will provide greater integration
between Jenkins and Maven.
And then we will create and build
a new project to use that plugin.
In an earlier lesson we created a project, Maven freestyle,
that simply use the existing freestyle project in Jenkins
to build a Java based project using Apache Maven.
While that approach works very well
I like to use a specific plugin,
which once was provided by Jenkins by
default, called the Maven integration plugin.
This plugin provides a great integration
between Maven projects and Jenkins.
I will warn you that not everyone believes
using this plug in is a good idea.
There are several reasons why.
First it's yet another plug in to install in Jenkins;
the more plugins you install and use the
slower your installation of Jenkins becomes.
That's one reason why I started Jenkins with no plugins
and only added the plugins we needed at the time.
Second, because of the deeper Jenkins integration with
Maven, builds that use this plugin will be slower
than simply using the freestyle project, which
gives up that integration for better performance.
Third the Maven integration plugin has a
lot of other plugins as dependencies.
To balance things out I've provided
some counter arguments to those points.
First, many plugins actually depend
on the Maven integration plugin,
especially since this plugin used to be bundled with Jenkins.
Either way you'll probably eventually
have this plugin installed.
Second, while it is true builds with the
Maven integration plugin do run a bit longer
I think it is worth it for the level of
integration you get while using the plug in.
Ultimately you should weigh your options,
perhaps even perform some tests with both
approaches to see which one is a better fit.
Let's assume you're OK giving up a bit of performance for
some really nice Maven goodness directly in Jenkins.
Starting in Jenkins 2 you now have to install
the Maven integration plug in separately.
Oddly enough it's not even featured among the
recommended set of plugins during the set up wizard,
which I find strange considering it
used to be installed by default.
Like we covered in the plugin lesson go to the
plug in manager page under Manage Jenkins.
Once there click on the available tab.
Since I'm telling you which plug in to
install we can skip the research part.
Simply type "Maven" in the filter search field.
Once the results for the filter search returns the Maven
integration plugin should be among the top results.
Select that plugin with a check next to that plugin.
While we're here, if the config file plugin
is listed, check that plugin as well.
Now click on the "Download now and install after
restart" button, since that is the safest option.
While the plugins, including any dependency, downloads
check the box to restart Jenkins once done.
If, for some reason, Jenkins doesn't update after a while
try refreshing your browser page or return to the
Jenkins dashboard and do a restart from there
using the URL trick demonstrated earlier.
Once Jenkins has completed restarting, from
the Jenkins dashboard, click on new item.
For the project name use "Time Tracker", and then choose
the newly added Maven project, and finally click OK.
Great, let's configure our Maven project.
Since this is a different Jenkins project type we
should review this page and observe any differences.
For example, there are a few more sections
and if we scroll down through the page
some of the previous sections have additional
settings that are specific to Maven builds
or perhaps introduced by dependency
plugins installed along the way.
OK, jump to source control management, select Git.
On another web browser tab I have
my time tracker GitHub repository.
Like we've done earlier, grab the
HTTPS clone URL for this repository.
Go back to Jenkins and paste in our repository URL.
Like in the previous examples, all
the other Git settings are fine.
Now jump down to the build section.
This section is very different;
before you could choose from a
dropdown for specific build steps.
Now we have two fields that are Maven
specific: "Root POM" and "Goals and options".
Instead the Maven build section is
surrounded by pre and post build steps.
Basically, if we needed to do other
build steps besides the Maven build
the Maven integration plugin provides a way to accomplish that.
Let's look at the two fields we have here:
"Root POM", this is the main "pom.xml" for this project.
By default it is simply "pom.xml", which resolves to the
root or main folder of the workspace for this build.
For goals and options we simply specify the top
level Maven goals or lifecycle phases to target,
along with any command line options needed by the Maven build.
We need to specify "clean package" here.
If you want you can click on the "Advanced"
button to expand out even more options.
We won't need to change anything here, but it is
interesting to look at all the available options.
Feel free to use the blue question mark to
show some help text on a particular setting.
At this point I'm done with any further
changes to this job's configuration.
So click on "Save", which will land
us on the project's status page.
In this lesson we installed the Maven integration plugin
and created a job to use the new Maven project type in Jenkins.
in the next lesson we will build our
Maven project and review its results.

--- Maven Build Modules ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to build
our new Maven project and review the results,
making note of any Maven specific integration with Jenkins.
After saving the configuration we
should land on the project status page.
Alright, now let's build our project for
the first time: click on "Build Now" .
And then, under the build history, you
should see the build in progress.
If we want we can click on the status ball,
which will take us to the console output.
This will allow us to see our build in progress.
Great, once the output of the screen has finished
loading we can go back to our time tracker project.
And we see that we have a green ball, which now
indicates that we have a successful build.
Like before clicking on the status ball will take it
to the console output so we can review the build.
Like the other Maven project we have
a similar output coming from Maven.
Another feature of the Maven based project
for Jenkins is the notion of modules.
After a successful build you will see that we
have modules as another option in our menu.
Click on modules.
Jenkins will display all the modules that are part of this
Maven project, as well as indenting the level of our module.
The left-most item we have is parent,
then, indented one level to the right,
we have each of our sub modules that are
part of this project: web and core.
Since Jenkins understands modules we can dive a
little deeper and go into the time tracker core.
On this page we see a breakdown for this specific
Maven module, including a link to the workspace
and the artifacts that are associated with this Maven module.
Let's return to the project status page again.
There we have some extra features
that are specific to Maven projects.
Links to test results, which is something
we will cover later in this course.
On this page we have two links, since we
might go into two different result sets,
one for the last completed build
and one for just the last build.
We see a similar thing at the build level,
going to this specific build status page.
If we go there we will see that we have a
link to the test results for this build
directly from the status page or
the test results on the side menu.
At this point I'm going to return
to the main dashboard for Jenkins.
In this lesson we've built our Maven project
in Jenkins and reviewed the results,
including the modules feature added
by the Maven integration plug.
In the next lesson we will continue working with our
Maven project by failing our Maven project on purpose
and then walking through some troubleshooting tips.

--- Failed Maven Projects ---

Welcome, in this lesson, I'm going to
intentionally fail our Maven project.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to make a change to
our project in order to cause an intentional failure.
I'm going to flip back over to GitHub.
I don't recommend making direct changes
to a Git repository on GitHub,
however, for the purposes of demonstrating
this change, I'm going to do so.
I'm going to click on core.
Within this Pom XML I want to make a modification.
Click on that file and now click on the edit this file icon.
This will load that particular file in
the online editor that GitHub provides.
Let's make a modification to this file that we know will fail.
I'm just going to remove and ending '/' so
we no longer have a valid project file.
I'm going to scroll down and then I'm going to add a
comment message of "Adding a problem on purpose".
Then I'm going to click on "Commit changes".
Great, now I'm going to flip back over
to Jenkins, and start my build now.
Within just a few seconds you can
see that we have a failed build.
And, while we've covered failed builds before, we
haven't covered them specifically with Maven projects.
Let's dive in and take a look.
So, if I click on the ball which is the status indicator,
that will take me directly to the console output.
If we scroll down a bit to see the problem the
failed build is because of the parsing of the Pom,
which is exactly what we expected.
Now click on the build number that takes us back
to the main page for this particular build.
And, as Jenkins understands Maven modules,
we have a listing of all the modules that
are part of this project, and its status.
We can see that all three modules did not run.
That's because Maven will do a validation on the Pom XMLs
contained within its project, including any child poms.
Alright, let's return to our project and
now let's fix the problem back on GitHub.
Since I'm on this file I'm going to click on the "Edit this
file icon" once again and add the forward slash like before.
That returns the tag to a proper ending tag, which
restores this file back to a valid Pom XML.
Once we've completed that scroll down and add a commit
message "Fixing POM issue", then commit the changes.
Great, let's return to Jenkins
Now that we're done click on "Build Now".
Alright, the build took slightly longer, which
usually indicates things are going better.
And we end up with a successful
build, indicated by a green ball.
When I click on the green ball you can see the
console output, and we can confirm a build success.
Great, let's return to the main project page.
In this lesson we intentionally failed our
Maven build just to see what it looks like.

--- Scheduling Jenkins Jobs ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to cover
how to automate builds by scheduling them.
I'm currently on my Maven project's main page.
Let's configure our build, click on configure.
Once the configuration page loads scroll down
until you find the "Build Triggers" section.
There are all the various ways that
this build project can be triggered.
If you're not sure how something works, most of the time
Jenkins provides a question mark that you can expand out.
This explains what happens or what
the purpose of that setting is.
When you're done with the help you can just
click on the help icon again to collapse it.
The item we're going to look at is “build periodically”,
so check that item and that expands
out to a schedule and an open field.
Let's see how the schedule field works
by expanding out the question mark.
It tells us how the schedule field works, which
is much like a crontab on a Linux system.
That means we have five positions: the minute position,
the hour position, the day of the month position,
the month position, and the day of the week position.
By putting a value in each one of these positions
we can schedule when this job needs to run.
It tells us that each one of these positions
we can enter some type of numeric value.
For example, in the minute position, it's
0 through 59 to represent all 60 minutes.
The hour, it's 0 through 23 and so on.
There are also special values that we can add, which is an
asterisk for all valid values for a particular position.
We can also enter a range, the
first value until the last value.
We can even do a little bit of math, that
is a range then divided by another value,
or all the values divided by a particular value.
There's also a special "H" symbol which means
that you can run within a degree of flexibility,
that is somewhere between one value and another value.
We also have some aliases that provide a more
user friendly way of representing a job schedule.
For example "@yearly", "@annually", "@monthly",
"@weekly", "@daily", "@midnight", or "@hourly".
Alright, let's scroll up and give this a try.
Alright, I've entered a value, that is "*/3",
with the asterisks in the other four positions effectively
allowing this job to run every single third minute.
Also, as you move off of the schedule
field, there may pop up a little help text
that says that you might want to use
this syntax instead of that syntax.
So let's make the change it recommends:
instead of "*/3", I'm going to say "H/3".
Now, when I click away from the field,
this message gives me an indication
of when this job would have ran,
and when it's going to run next.
Let's go ahead and save the change, and wait
for the build to trigger automatically.
Great, our build has automatically been triggered.
In this lesson we configured our Maven
project to build upon a regular schedule.
Of course, this approach will build the project
regardless if anything changed in the source repository.
In the next lesson we will address that issue by
switching out the schedule build with polling.

--- Source Control Polling in Jenkins ---

In this video we're going to continue
looking at other project build triggers.
We're starting out on our Maven project's Build status page.
Head over to configure.
Scroll down until you find "Build Triggers".
Right now we have it set to build periodically.
This will trigger a build based on the schedule, regardless
if there are changes in the source control or not.
Instead I want to poll my source
control repository on this schedule
and only build if changes have been detected.
I'm going to select this schedule and right click and copy.
Now I'm going to uncheck "Build
periodically" and then check "Poll SCM".
This provides me the same schedule
field, with the same type of format.
Now paste in the value from your clipboard.
Once we save this project configuration the project
will poll or look at the source control system
on the schedule instead of automatically building.
If Jenkins detects a change in the source control,
based on the polling, then it will trigger a build.
Now let's head over to GitHub and make a
change to our project within our repository.
I've gone to the main repository page for the repository.
And let's just update the ReadMe file.
So click on "README.md", and then
click on the edit this file icon.
I just made a slight tweak to the ReadMe file,
adding a little purpose section and
then a single sentence afterwards.
Once I've made our change I'm going to
add a commit message: "Updating README",
and then click on commit changes.
Let's head back over to Jenkins and
wait for the next build to build.
Great, it looks like Jenkins detected our change.
In fact we end up with an extra item in our menu
Section, "Git Polling Log". Let's check it out.
This shows us what Jenkins did to check out the changes.
And, at the end, it says changes were
found, which of course triggered the build.
I like the idea of polling GitHub occasionally
to see if there are any new changes,
but I think every three minutes is probably
excessive now that we know this works.
So, let's return to our project's configure page.
Let's poll for updates every 15 minutes instead.
Change our value so now we have "H/15".
And, since I want to continue making changes but I
want to make sure the setting is actually saved,
I'm going to hit apply instead of save.
We get a message at the top saying it's saved, but we
remain on the configuration page to allow further edits.
Great, let's scroll up and make another quick
change; let's add a nice little description here:
"A simple time-tracking application".
Now, if we click on Save, we will
return to the project's main page,
and we see our description, "A simple time-tracking
application" listed below the title.
Great, let's return to our dashboard.
In this lesson we changed our project's configuration to
poll our source control repository on a regular basis,
to look for updates and only build if updates are detected.
In the next lesson we're going to explore a
pretty big organizational feature of Jenkins,
which is represented as a tab.

--- Jenkins Tabs ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to look
at another interface feature: tabs or views.
Technically this feature is called views, but they
are represented as tabs in the Jenkins interface.
We're starting off on the Jenkins main dashboard,
and we have a tab right now called "All".
However, right next to "All" is a plus mark.
If we click on that it allows us to create a new view or tab.
I'm going to give the view name "Maven projects",
and now the only option available is
list view, so I'm going to select it.
Click "OK". Now we can configure the view.
We can give a description, "All Maven Projects",
and then we can select the jobs available,
which, for this example, let's include both "Time Tracker"
and "Maven Freestyle" since both are Maven projects.
Then click on OK.
So now we have a tab named "Maven Projects".
We also have a tab called "All".
I can switch between the two, and since we
only have two projects both are in both tabs,
but I can create another one; I'm going
to create a view for freestyle projects.
For this view add the job "Maven Freestyle" and click OK.
From here I'm going to click on "New Job", and
I'm going to name it "Simple Freestyle Job",
and make it a freestyle project, and then click OK.
I'm not going to do anything right now, so just click save.
Now let's return to the dashboard.
Great. By default Jenkins likes to come
back to the "All" tab on the dashboard.
On the "All" tab we have all three jobs, since the "All" view
gets all the jobs, regardless of where they were created.
If I go to "Maven Projects" we have
"Time Tracker" and "Maven Freestyle".
And, if I go to "Freestyle Projects", we have
"Maven Freestyle" and "Simple Freestyle Job".
And the reason why we have it here is because
we created our job while on this tab.
Great, for now I don't need the "Freestyle Projects" tab,
so I'm going to go ahead and delete
this view by clicking on "Delete View".
I'll be prompted to make sure that I really
want to delete this view, select "Yes".
Now the view disappears.
Notice that the job is unaffected, the only difference
here is that there's no longer a view to hold that job,
but it still appears under the "All" tab
Going back to the Maven projects again we still
have "Time Tracker" and "Maven Freestyle".
Back on the "All" tab, since I just needed "Simple Freestyle
Job" for this demonstration, I'm going to delete it now.
Instead of going into the project, I can expand out
this dropdown and then select "Delete Project".
I'll be prompted to make sure I want to, click OK.
Now, if we refresh our browser page, we see we are left
with "Time Tracker" and "Maven Freestyle" projects.
In this lesson we worked with views in Jenkins,
which are a great way to organize related jobs.
In the next lesson we are going to peek under the hood a bit
by looking at the Jenkins home or installation directory.

--- Jenkins Home Directory ---

In this video we're going to dive a bit deeper under the hood
by looking at the Jenkins home directory,
as well as its working folders.
While on the Jenkins interface, I'm currently on the dashboard.
Let's go into our "Time Tracker" project.
Once there, click on workspace.
This shows us the workspace that our Jenkins project
is working with, starting at the root of our project.
But this doesn't tell us where on our system this is located.
Occasionally knowing that is useful.
To see Jenkins on the file system on Windows open file explorer
Under this PC click on the C-Drive, then go under "Program
Files" or "Program Files (x86)", depending on your system.
Since I have a 64 bit version of Windows
and since Jenkins is a 32 bit program
Jenkins will be located under "Program Files (x86)".
Either way, look for the Jenkins folder and then go into it.
On the Mac you can use Finder to navigate to the Jenkins
home folder located at "/users/shared/Jenkins/home"
On Linux Mint, you can use the files app to navigate
your file system, or you can use the terminal,
either way go to "/var/lib/Jenkins".
This is where Jenkins stores all of its
runtime configuration and build files.
This is the base folder or home folder for Jenkins.
It contains several folders and files
that make up the entire Jenkins system
and any temporary files needed during building.
One of those folders is the "jobs" folder.
If we go into it we see a list of our projects.
Right now we have "Time Tracker".
If we click on or go into the "Time Tracker" folder,
this is the jobs folder for the time tracker project,
which contains the configuration as well as metadata.
Now let's go into the workspace.
I'm going to move the file explorer over
so that we can compare the file structure.
Under workspace you can see that we have a file
structure that matches the workspace shown in Jenkins:
we have core here, and we have core there;
we have web here, and web there as well.
Our base Pom XML is on both sides.
This is the workspace of the project being built.
Typically this is the root of the source control project
that you're using with Jenkins on this project.
Alright, now that we are done looking at
this let's close our file explorer or finder
and return back to our Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson we looked under the hood a bit by
navigating the Jenkins installation directory.
In the next lesson we're going to upgrade Jenkins to
the latest version along with any installed plugins.

--- Upgrading Jenkins ---

In this video we're going to take a few moments
to upgrade Jenkins to the latest LTS version,
and also make sure our plugins are up to date as well.
Some might not realize that creating a
polished course takes a lot of time.
Because of that software that updates frequently
can change during the recording of a course.
Jenkins is a good example of this; not only does the
core Jenkins software need to be updated periodically
but plugins often need to be updated within
just a few days of initial installation.
This provides me the opportunity to share
the upgrade or update process with you,
which is a bit different depending on your operating system.
If you go to the Jenkins dashboard and you are logged in as
the admin account you might notice a red box at the top.
This tells us there are one or more Jenkins
management issues that need our attention.
We can get a brief summary by hovering the mouse over
and, if we click on the box, we get
an even more detailed list of issues.
In this case we are informed of a new release
of Jenkins and plugin updates available.
In my specific case I have several warnings about
some of the outdated plugins currently installed.
In either case it's a good time to update.
Oftentimes both Jenkins and plugins need to be updated.
In that case I recommend updating Jenkins first, since
that might influence updates to plugins afterwards.
Go to "Manage Jenkins".
Once there we have the same warnings we saw
from the Jenkins dashboard warning box.
From here we can review the changelog in another browser tab.
I always review the Jenkins change log before upgrading,
especially on production or critical systems.
I've been bitten by bad updates more than once
or, more commonly, good updates that happen
to break my current project configurations.
Once you're done reviewing the change log return to Jenkins.
Since I'm currently on Windows I'll walk through
the Jenkins upgrade process here first.
On Windows the easiest way to upgrade Jenkins is to
do it automatically from the manage Jenkins page.
Click on the upgrade automatically button,
which takes us to the update Center,
which is normally used for updating plugins.
After a little while you should get a
success next to the "jenkins.war" item,
since that is how Jenkins is packaged.
Once the underlying war file for Jenkins has
completed downloading we need to restart Jenkins.
Pick your favorite way to restart Jenkins.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard, make
sure you are logged in as the admin user.
You should notice the installed
version has been increased a bit.
Before moving on to updating the plugins let's look
at how to upgrade Jenkins on the other platforms.
For mac os the easiest way to upgrade Jenkins is to
simply install the latest Mac OS installer image,
which is available from "jenkins.io", on
top of the existing Jenkins installation.
the installer will restart Jenkins after the upgrade and it
won't require you to go through the getting started wizard.
Once the reinstallation is complete the installer will
launch the default browser to go to the Jenkins dashboard.
Once there you should notice Jenkins has been upgraded.
For Linux, and specifically Linux Mint,
we just need to run the package manager
to update or upgrade our existing installed packages.
Of course you'll need to do this as root or sudo the command.
Jenkins should be included in this list of available updates:
"sudo apt-get update" then "sudo apt-get upgrade -y".
Once Jenkins has been upgraded, along
with any other system packages,
restart Jenkins using the service
management tool, in this case "systemctl".
Then return to the Jenkins dashboard using your
browser to confirm Jenkins has been upgraded.
Now that Jenkins is up to date let's update our plugins.
Since we've already covered updating plugins
that are already installed on Jenkins,
we will breeze through this process again.
But this time we have a lot more plugins to update.
Return to the plugin manager under "Manage Jenkins".
On the updates tab let's check for the
absolutely most up to date information.
Then select all, and then click on the download now button.
Once everything has been downloaded or successfully
installed, restart Jenkins in your favorite way.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard and logged in as the admin
we can confirm that the updates tab
in the plugin manager is empty.
Great, everything is now upgraded.
Let's return to the Jenkins dashboard
to be ready for the next section.
In this lesson we spent a few moments to
update Jenkins and any installed plugins.
In the next section we will add quality
inspection to our Maven project.

--- Continuous Inspection Overview ---

Welcome, in this section, we're going to hook up quality tools
to provide quality analysis regarding our Maven project.
Since this project is a Java application
the tools used will be Java focused,
including checkstyle, PMD, Findbugs, and JUnit.
Before we run the new tools we will review the source
code changes made to the source of the project.
Many of the changes were made intentionally
to trigger quality warnings.
We will also cover how to install and configure the
plugins for the quality tools used within Jenkins.
Once everything is set up with Jenkins we
will execute our project several times.
to show the change over time regarding quality metrics.
During the build process we will enable quality
gates within the project configuration
to enforce quality standards for our project source code.
Great, now that we know what's covered
in this section, let's jump in.

--- Project Source Review (Unit Tests and updates for quality analysis) ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to review the
source code for our time tracker project a bit deeper,
since we will make a few tweaks to it in this section.
Also there are aspects to the code that apply
directly to quality inspection, like unit testing.
While here we will review the parts of the code
needed for deployment, which we will cover later.
To start the code review return to your
copy of the Git repository on GitHub.
I think it will be easier to review the code there.
We have already gone over the basic structure
of the repository and the Maven project.
Basically we have a top level Pom file that defines
the common stuff and submodules for this project.
The submodules, core and web, are
the corresponding sub folders.
If I go into the "pom.xml" file we have general
stuff all Maven projects have defined,
like the "artifactId" the "groupId"
and the version for this project.
Submodules will inherit the group and version from the parent.
The packaging is set to pom, since that tells
Maven this module only contains a Pom file,
and will not create an archive file.
Then I also have a more user friendly name for
this project or specifically this parent module.
Along with the description.
The inception and URL are optional but nice to have.
There are some properties which are great for defining
common values that are managed in one location,
which you can see are being used under plugin management.
It's a bit advanced Maven stuff,
but basically this section defines
the configuration for commonly used
Maven plugins for this project.
The Maven compiler plugin sets the specific version
of Java to target for source compatibility,
since Maven normally runs with a much older default.
Then we have the three plugins we will use for
quality analysis: Findbugs, PMD, and Checkstyle.
The first two, Findbugs and PMD, are used to find known
coding errors, or at least not recommended coding practices.
Checkstyle, as the name implies, checks your
code against a recommended coding style
or conventions and reports any deviations to standard.
OK, that's all I need to cover in the main Pom.
Underneath core, if I go to the Pom XML,
there is a parent section that points
back to the main pom for this project.
This is how the parent and child modules
remain linked together in a Maven project.
We, of course, have the standard stuff
here, including the artifact name.
The version field is missing since the submodules
assume the same version as their parent module.
We also have a more user friendly name for this
module, which we have seen as we've been building it.
Also here we specify this module will generate a jar
file, which is like a zip file used by Java projects.
Actually jar is the default packaging type,
so we really don't need to specify it.
The point is that this module will produce a
jar file artifact during the build process,
which will be used by the web module as a dependency.
Underneath all that we have our dependencies defined.
That is a list of libraries needed to
compile and or run the code in this module.
In addition to needing the Spring
Framework we need Junit and Spring Test,
which is used to help test spring based applications.
We are done with the Pom file.
Let's look at the code in "src".
As you navigate into that folder, at least on GitHub,
the next several nesting levels are neatly streamlined
so we can jump directly down to the first available
directory containing the code or other files.
Within Maven projects there are two major directory
structures that basically mirror each other,
one for the actual source code under main and
the other contains unit testing under test.
That is each directory structure
contains the directory or folder
for the specific language or
technology used, in this case Java.
Both main and test contain a Java folder,
which is followed by a matching set of folders that
make up the package name used by Java projects.
Packages in Java are like unique
name spaces used by other languages
and those packages translate into a series of
nested folders for each part of the package name.
We have several classes under the
"src/main/java" folder structure.
Jump to the right-most folder name
and start exploring the code.
It's not a huge application; it's just enough
to cover the concepts needed for this course.
When you are done exploring the main source
code folders return to the "src" level again.
Then go down the "src/test/java" path to
see the corresponding unit test code.
Here you'll see several classes that set up
Junit testing with the spring framework.
Again the specifics are beyond the scope of
this course, but I wanted to point this out
so that you know where the unit test code was for this
project since we will cover that very soon in this section.
I'm done with the core module of this project.
Let's return to the top level of the
project, and then dive in to the web module.
While most of the code we care about in this section
is in the core module we should review the web module
so we don't have to do this later when
we get to the deployment section.
Great, let's start off by inspecting the Pom file for
this module, like we've done with other modules so far.
Like in the core module I also have a nicer name specified.
Since this module will generate a deployable
artifact to be used by an application server,
which we will cover later in the
course, the packaging is set to "war".
That means this module will generate a "war" or
web archive, which is like a "jar" or "zip" file
but with a specific layout that Java-based
web application servers understand.
In the dependency section we refer to the core module,
which will be included in the final war file archive.
Well we're done with this Pom file so
let's explore the rest of this module.
Under "src/main/webapp" this is the web
application route for the application
and the standard location for web
application content for Maven projects.
From here we have an "index.jsp" page.
JSP refers to Java server pages, a web based
templating technology for Java based web applications.
It's part of the Java Enterprise specification.
However there really isn't much here, basically
it's a Hello World for web applications.
When the web application is deployed and running the
JSP file will be dynamically converted into HTML,
which is what all web browsers are expecting.
Alright, let's back up a folder.
Within our web application folder we have a web-INF
folder, in which is contained the web XML file.
Again this is a very simple example,
mainly just specifying the "index.jsp" we just looked
at as the main welcome page for this application.
Now we are done reviewing the source
code for the time tracker project.
Let's return to Jenkins.
Once back I'm going to go back to the dashboard.
In this lesson we took a few moments to review the source code
for the main Maven project we have been using
and will continue to use throughout the course.
In particular we got to know how Maven works
and expects the main source code and the
corresponding unit test code to be set up.
We also took a peek at the web module, which
will be used a bit later in this course.
In the next lesson we will install and configure
the plugins needed for the rest of this section.

--- Quality Analysis Plugins and Configuration ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to install the
plugins we will need for the rest of this section
and configure our project to use those plugins.
Let's verify that the unit test
plug in for Jenkins is installed.
Click on Manage Jenkins, then go to
Manage Plugins and click on installed.
The JUnit plug in should already be installed.
If the JUnit plug in is not installed then you
need to install it from the available tab,
like we have done with other plugins.
While we are here let's install the other
plugins we'll need in this section.
The plugins we need to install are
for PMD, Findbugs, and Checkstyle.
Let's search for PMD first.
Find the PMD plug in and check it.
Now go back up to the filter and type and findbugs
find the Findbugs plug in and check it.
Go back up to the filter and type checkstyle,
and find the Checkstyle plugin, and check it.
Then click on "Download now and install after restart"
Once the download of all the plugins
have finished click "Restart Jenkins".
If, after a few minutes, Jenkins does not restart
return back to the main page for Jenkins
then manually reload your browser.
Great. Once the page comes back up Jenkins is back alive.
Now that we've downloaded and installed the plugins for
PMD, Findbugs, and Checkstyle let's
enable them for our project.
Click on the time tracker project.
Once that loads click on configure.
Scroll down until you find build settings.
You should have three new items "Publish Checkstyle
analysis results", the same for Findbugs, and for PMD.
We're going to check all three.
Each one of these has its own additional
advanced settings, we'll cover that later.
For now click on apply.
Before we can run our build and
expect the quality metrics to show up
we do need to change the Maven command being used.
Jump to the build section.
For goals and options we should have "clean package".
The clean goal does what you would expect; it clears
out the temporary files from a previous build.
"package" runs the default lifecycle up to the package phase,
which will compile the code and put
the results into a jar or war file.
Unit testing will happen here as well.
There are a couple ways we could add code quality analysis.
The first way is to simply add the
"site" target to our Maven command.
That will trigger the analysis plugin while the site plugin
attempts to build and HTML report for all the findings.
Basically it would run the analysis
after all the parts of the build.
The other approach is to specify the plugin go for
each of the analysis tools we're going to use .
Using this approach we'll run the analysis
more in line with the rest of the build.
Let's use that approach, since I really don't
need the HTML report provided by the "site" goal.
After the other two goals specify
"checkstyle:checkstyle pmd:pmd findbugs:findbugs"
The first half is the short name for the
plugin "checkstyle", "pmd" and "findbugs".
Maven knows how to resolve this to the full names,
including the most current versions of those plugins.
The second half is the actual plugin goal to execute.
In each case the main goal to run happens
to be named after the plugin or tool.
I've tested out both approaches
and they give identical results.
While just using the cycle is less typing,
specifying each plugin and plugin goal
makes it clear to me what's going on.
We need either approach in order to
activate the analysis reports in Jenkins.
Alright, now that we've done that, click on Save,
which will return us to the project status page.
In this lesson we made sure the JUnit plugin was
already installed and then we installed PMD,
Findbugs and Checkstyle plugins so that we can evaluate
the project source code quality in this section.
Then we configured the time tracker
project to use the code quality plugins.
In the next lesson we will run the
build and review the results.

--- Build and Review ---

In this lesson we are going to build our time tracker project
now that we have the quality metrics
plugins installed and enabled.
We should be on our project status page.
We need to prime the pump if you will;
basically we need to run a few builds in a row
to generate enough results so the trend reports will appear.
Of course, since there aren't going
to be any changes between the builds
the trends will be straight lines at their current levels.
Click on the "Build Now" item.
Wait for the build to complete,
and then do it again.
With at least two builds completed after
enabling the code quality plugins
we should now have several trend reports
displayed on the status page for the project.
After the second build you might need to refresh
the browser page to see the trend reports.
The trend reports are all just
solid blocks or strips right now.
We'll make a few changes later and then see some differences.
For now I just want to point out some differences
now that we have several code quality
plugins enabled for this project.
First we have 4 reports listed on the project status page.
We have the three code quality reports,
that is Checkstyle, PMD, and Findbugs,
and we have our unit test coverage report.
Also, on this page, we have a link to two test report pages,
which might seem silly but occasionally
they will be different reports;
one for the last build and the other
for the last completed build.
In this case both are the same report and report no failures.
Also on the menu we have three links, each for the
code quality reports for Checkstyle Findbugs and PMD.
Now let's see the same changes on the build status page.
Clicking on the date of the last build takes us to
the build status page for that particular build.
Again we see some changes here.
The status page contains the links to test results
and quality reports for this specific build.
Each item also provides the most important information,
like the fact there are no failures for the
test or the number of Findbugs warnings.
We see the same updates on the side menu; links to
the specific tests or quality reports for the build.
If we scroll down a bit we can click
on the time tracker core module
and see that Jenkins provides test and
quality reports at this level too.
That's another benefit of using the Maven integration
plugin alongside the code quality plugins;
they work together very well and
provide a deep level of integration.
Great, let's return to the project status page.
In this lesson we simply built the project a couple
of times to generate enough data for the code quality
and unit test reports to be displayed and then reviewed
the changes to our project and build status pages.
In the next lesson we will focus on reviewing the unit
test coverage reports and even make a few changes.

--- Unit Testing in Jenkins ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to review the
unit test results for the time tracker project.
We are currently on our project status page.
Click on the build status for the most recent
build to check out the console output.
So far we've seen the start and the end of the Maven builds,
but near the middle is where the unit testing actually happens.
Maven uses the surefire plug in to run
any unit tests defined in the project,
provided they're located in the correct location.
To quickly jump to that spot in the
build, do a search for "surefire".
That should take us to the start of the
unit testing phase of the maven build.
From here we can scroll through the unit testing results, which
will be a lot of initialization for the Spring Framework.
And you might even catch a line giving
a summary of a particular test run.
At the end of this testing phase there will
be a summary for the entire test phase.
The surefire plugin will execute for all
the submodules that make up this project,
but only the submodules that contain
unit tests will show any results.
Great. Let's jump back down to the project status page.
Once there let's peek in to the workspace to look for
the report files generated during the testing phase.
Once in the workspace the only module that ran in a
unit test is the core module so go into that folder.
From here Maven places all the build artifacts,
including reports, into the target folder.
Let's go into that folder.
Within the target folder, since the surefire
plugin is responsible for running the unit tests,
look for a folder named "surefire-reports".
Great, dive into that folder.
Here's where the reports are located.
And we have two flavors of the unit tests
result reports; plain text and XML.
Of course plain text is a lot easier for people to review.
If you click on the files or use
the view link in Chrome, you'll
need to use the back button
feature to return to Jenkins.
The XML versions of the reports are for programs
like Jenkins to easily consume and integrate.
Great, let's have a look at that integration now.
Now let's return to the project's status page.
From here we could click on either test results.
We will land on the last build's test results.
The test results will list the results by Maven module,
which in this case there's only one module, the time
tracker core module, that contains any unit tests.
We have three tests in this module,
with none failing right now.
Click into the module.
Within the core module we have a summary at the top,
including how long the test took and
overall success or failure rate.
Under all tests we have the test stats by Java package.
Again, only one package. Click into that package.
From here we have each class in the Java package listed with
a number of failing passing and total unit test per class.
If you click into a class we have a listing of unit
test methods executed, and their status and duration.
We have gone really deep into a
specific module of a specific build.
You can see that reflected in the breadcrumb navigation.
Let's jump back to the project's status page.
Now let's change one of the tests to make
it fail and see what that looks like.
Open up or return to your copy of the
time tracker repository on GitHub.
Then drill down into the core module
folder, then into the "src" folder.
Then follow the "test/java" folder
path down to the core package folder.
We now have our JUnit test classes.
Let's edit the TrackerTest.java file.
Click on the file, and once open click on the edit button.
We're going to make a very simple but effective change.
Go to the last "assert" statement and change
the operator from greater than to less than.
Of course this will return false, which
will cause the assert statement to fail.
Save the change to this file by making
the commit at the bottom of the page
Once done, return to our Jenkins page.
Click "Build Now" to do a build with our new change included.
Once the build has completed the new build has a yellow status,
which normally means the build was technically successful
but had some issues with unit testing or too poor quality.
Also, you might need to refresh your web browser to see
the latest information on the project's status page.
The project's status page now has new information regarding
the latest test result; it now reports one failure.
Now dive into the reports and we see we have one failed build
and markers that show the difference from the previous build.
On the module status page and the project status page
each test result report has changed slightly
to show the increase in failed tests.
OK, let's fix the build before moving forward.
Return to the same file on GitHub and return
the greater than sign to the assert statement
Commit the change,
and then re-build once back in Jenkins.
Great, we should be back to a green build with the
adjustments in our testing trend reports accordingly.
In this lesson we looked at the unit
test reports and trending graphs.
We also caused one of the tests to
fail and to see what that looks like.
In the next lesson we will look at the code quality reports.

--- Reviewing Quality Analysis ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to
review the code quality reports in our project
so we know what changes are needed to achieve
a high quality, bug-free software project.
Back on the time tracker project status page, we
have our trend reports racking up data points
but since nothing has changed the
reports have remained the same.
Let's review the reports before tweaking the code.
Like before, let's dive into the
console output of the last build.
Search for "checkstyle" in the output of your browser.
This should jump down to where the
analysis is run for the project.
Here we have a few log messages that start with
the tool, "checkstyle", "pmd", and "findbugs".
You can see where each plugin runs within each module
and provides a summary of the findings after analysis.
While we are here at the build level
check out the build status page.
Here we have the test results and the code quality
results for Checkstyle, PMD, and Findbugs,
with a summary of the results and a link to the actual report.
Also you should notice that we have
those same links on the side menu.
Next we will look at each report and their violation findings.
While each tool has its own main purpose and strength
some types of violations will be repeated in each tool.
For example both Checkstyle and
PMD will find empty code blocks.
Let's look at the Checkstyle report first.
Checkstyle is a common coding style
analysis tool used for Java projects.
It checks against industry standard ways of coding
by default, but your team can define its own rules
and adjust the priority for the existing
ones if you find that necessary.
This, like any style guide, is a suite of strong
opinions that everyone more or less agrees to follow.
Click on the "Checkstyle Warnings" side menu
item to go into that report for this build..
Once on the Checkstyle result page review the warnings.
There won't be any new or fixed warnings,
since those compare changes between builds
and we haven't made any code changes just yet.
Under summary we have a lot of high priority
warnings and no findings for normal or low priority.
Under details we see where our warnings
are located by the following: "packages".
This is the way Java projects are grouped
together, like namespaces in other languages.
In this case we have two packages
that contain Checkstyle violations.
Files lists specific files where
violations are found with a total by file.
Categories, which lists the violation by Checkstyle category,
like design, Java dock use or lack
thereof, or whitespace issues.
Types lists violations by specific Checkstyle check type,
like checking for empty blocks or issues with braces.
You can think of this as a refinement of the categories.
Warnings lists out all the
violations and their location within
each file, package location,
priority level, type, and category.
Origin attempts to track down how
the violations were introduced.
Details lists each violation along with stats and
description of the violation and why it matters,
granted some descriptions are better than others.
OK, before heading back, let's poke around this report.
As we drill down we just refine the context of the report.
Also, because of the tight Jenkins integration, the breadcrumb
trail is updated to reflect our place within the report.
Eventually we will drill down to a
specific violation within the code.
If you hover over your mouse over the highlighted line Jenkins
will provide a pop up detailing the specific violation,
which can be a bit crazy depending on how verbose
the violations description happens to be.
Anyway, I think you get the point.
For now let's head back to review the other reports.
From the current page click on PMD warnings to see
that report for the current build of this project.
PMD is a static code analysis tool that focuses
on the Java ecosystem, since it supports Java
and languages and technologies commonly used
within Java projects, like JSP and XML.
Instead of focusing on programming style,
PMD looks for bad coding practices,
like empty code blocks, code that can never be
reached, problematic syntax, and code duplication.
Alrght, back on the report.
We can see the report looks very similar to
the Checkstyle report we just walked through.
Because of that I'm not going to spend too
much time going over the same type of report.
Of course the findings or violations will be
different, but the overall concept is the same.
You can drill down in various ways
with summaries at each level.
Eventually you'll end up looking at a
specific violation at the file level.
Since this is a different report
showing different types of violations
do spend a few moments becoming familiar with this report.
Once done browsing the PMD report click on the Findbugs
warnings side menu item to jump to that report for this build.
Findbugs is a static code analysis tool that
looks for actual bugs or mistakes in Java code.
Other tools focus more on coding style or
questionable code that might be buggy,
but Findbugs focuses on code that looks just plain wrong.
Because of that I have much fewer violations in this report;
in this case, I only have two warnings, one
high priority and one normal priority.
Like the other reports we have a similar report style
provided by Jenkins, which makes getting around pretty easy.
Let's drill down into the high
priority issue, eventually landing
on the specific line in the file
where the violation exists.
Like before, if I hover my mouse over the highlighted line
I'll get a pop up with more details
on the violation and warning.
Well that's it regarding the reports.
As we saw they all follow a similar look and feel, so
navigating around different reports is easy and familiar.
Let's jump back to the main status page for the entire project.
Once here I want to point out the same
set of side menu items available here.
If you click on them they will take you to
the corresponding report of the last build.
Also available on the project's status page you can click on
the specific build data point for each of the trend reports
to jump directly to that report for that specific build,
which can be a visual way to jump directly
to builds with unusual dips or spikes.
In this lesson we have reviewed the
reports generated and gathered by Jenkins
using a combination of Maven goals to generate
report data and their corresponding Jenkins plugins
to gather those stats into reports easily browsed
directly within the Jenkins web interface.
In the next lesson we will set up quality gates in Jenkins
to enforce a minimum quality standard for a project.

--- Enforcing Minimum Quality Scores ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to set
some threshold in order to fail our build,
and then later make our build unstable.
However, before we do that, let's install one more plugin.
With our Maven project in Jenkins we ran
our build with quality metrics enabled.
However, that's just giving us nice line graphs but
not really doing anything regarding our build.
For me the main benefit of having quality metrics
built into Jenkins is not necessarily for reporting,
although that is useful, but mainly for evaluating the quality
of the build in order for it to proceed forward or not.
Let's have Jenkins take some action based on
the quality of the code within our project.
While it is possible to set thresholds
for each static code analysis plugin,
I have found that setting thresholds for more
than one tool conflicts with the others.
Additionally I generally only care
about the aggregate number of warnings
and determining the quality thresholds based on that.
To collect all the static code analysis together I like using
the static analysis collector plugin to gather all the results
from PMD, Findbugs, and Checkstyle, and make the
evaluation on the project quality based on that.
Go to the plugin manager,
and once there click on the available tab.
Then, in the search filter field, type analysis.
Then find and install the analysis collector plugin.
Once the plugin has been installed
return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Now we need to enable the plugin within our project.
Return to the configure page for the time tracker project.
Jump down to the "Build Settings" section.
We will keep the checkmarks next to the publish
analysis reports for Checkstyle, Findbugs, and PMD.
That will allow us to feed the new
plugin with our analysis reports.
Now, under the "Post-build Actions" section,
add a new post build action and choose
"Publish combined static analysis results".
The "Post-build Section" is used to run extra steps or actions
after the main build steps that normally run
regardless of the overall build status.
Now just make sure that all three items are checked:
Checkstyle warnings, Findbugs warnings, and PMD warnings.
If we had other code quality analysis tools
here that were compatible with this plugin,
more options would be listed here.
For now that's all we need, click save
and return to the project's status page.
Let's build again and check out the results.
Great, we should have a similar result from last time, but
now we have more information on the project status page;
a summary of the three static code analysis
tools under the heading "Analysis results",
with links to specific results in their respective reports.
We also have a "Static Analysis Warnings" item
in the side menu that provides a combined report
from all the analysis tools enabled for this report.
Clicking on the latest build on the
build status page we see a new item:
static analysis warnings with a summary
and linked to the report from here.
And, of course, the corresponding side menu item as well.
Jump back to the project status page.
If we run the build one more time, which
gives us two build with this plugin enabled,
the project status page will include a
combined static analysis trend graph.
Now lets configure the new combined static analysis
plugin to enforce certain quality gates for our project.
Click on configure, and jump down to the "Post-build Actions".
And, for the post-build action
here, we have an advanced button.
Click on "Advanced", and under the
advanced settings we have several options.
The status thresholds is where we can
tell whether or not to fail the build
or to make it unstable based on the number of issues detected.
Near the top we have something called
"Health thresholds", which will provide
some type of weather status based on the
number of violations that are detected.
I'll consider things wonderful if
we have less than five warnings,
and bad thundercloud status if we go beyond 50 warnings.
Next we have the "Health priorities",
which determines which warning priorities we
consider for evaluating the health thresholds above.
Finally we have a matrix for status thresholds.
Here we have four columns: we have all priorities,
high priorities, normal, and low, with two rows.
The top row, with the yellow ball, refers to
thresholds to consider the build unstable.
The bottom row is the threshold to fail the build.
For example, on this project, I
want to consider the build unstable
if we have more than 10 warnings, regardless of the priority.
Placing a zero in the high priority column will trip the
unstable status if one or more high priority warnings is found.
I place a 5 for normal and 10 for low, making these
unstable thresholds for those categories respectively.
That means, provided we don't exceed 10 warnings total,
the project can have up to five normal priority
warnings and still get a success or green ball.
Let's pick some reasonable thresholds for
failing the build, which is the bottom row.
For all priorities let's use 100. For high, normal,
and low use 40, 75, and blank respectively.
That means, if the project has more than 40 high priority
warnings or more than 75 normal priority warnings
Jenkins will automatically fail the build, which will
also happen if any combination exceeds 100 warnings.
The last field, for low priority warnings, is left blank
which means low priority
warnings will not cause a build
failure, provided we don't exceed
the number for all priorities.
Great, that's it for now, click save to save the
configuration and return to the project status page.
We just configured the thresholds that will
cause a build failure, which is intentional.
Click "Build Now" and see if we caused a failing build.
We had the same information on the project status
page, but if we click into the specific build,
on the build status page if we look at the static analysis
summary which tells us we exceeded one of our thresholds,
which is why the build is marked as failed.
We can also see this if we go to
the console output for this build,
and go all the way to the end.
We see, although the Maven part of the build was successful,
since the static collector plugin evaluated the thresholds
in turn the plugin actually changed the build status
to failure, because of the missed quality threshold.
For now let's return to the project's status page.
In this lesson we installed a new plugin that
aggregates our static code analysis reports
and allows us to set the thresholds or quality gates
upon the aggregate number of warnings by priority.
In the next lesson we will make
changes to the project source code
in an attempt to pass the thresholds and
improve the quality of the project.

--- Improving Quality Scores ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going
to make a few changes to our project
to see if we can get some improvement in our quality.
In this lesson I'm going to jump back and forth
between the different tabs in my browser.
I want to leverage the static code analysis reports to
aid in making the adjustments to my project source code,
much in the same way I would expect a developer to do
using Jenkins with these types of reports available.
I'm currently on the main page for
our Maven project in Jenkins.
Let's drill down into the combined report;
click on "Static code analysis warnings".
In the side menu click on types.
Any of the empty types will be an easy fix.
Let's start with "EmptyBlockCheck".
We have two places, both of them in "tracker.java".
After the file name there is a colon and then
a line number where the offense is located.
Click on the filename for one of the warnings
to see the warning highlighted in source code.
Now let's open up or switch to another web browser tab.
Go to your copy of the GitHub repository
containing the time tracker project,
then navigate down to the "core" folder, then SRC.
From here, click on the main folder
path down to the core package folder.
Here we have the tracker.java file.
Click on that file to see its contents.
We should be able to see the same issue
at the line highlighted in the report.
We can flip back and verify if we need to do so.
Although I don't recommend editing files directly on
GitHub, I'm going to do that now for the sake of speed.
Click on the edit icon to edit this file in place.
Now let's scroll down and see if we can find some violations.
Let's start with the empty try catch block
in the get method that starts in line 29.
If we read through this method there are several issues here.
If we flip back to the report on Jenkins, back up to the
top level, and look at the warnings just in this file
under packages we can click on the core package,
which is where the "tracker.java" is located.
Then click on "tracker.java".
Now we see all the warnings associated with this specific file.
We can walk through several warnings to see if we
can adjust the source to adjust them one at a time.
Of course, as you modify the source code the line
numbers from the report will not match any longer.
Clicking on each warning should give you enough
context that we should be able to find the problem.
Back on GitHub let's remove the try catch block entirely.
We can also get rid of the empty if statement,
which contains a logic error anyway.
Now the valid variable will not be
used by anything, so remove that too.
Alright, I still have some violations in here,
but I just want to see a bit of improvement.
So I'm going to scroll down to commit the changes
and provide a nice useful commit message:
addressing quality issues in "tracker.java".
Once I've put in my commit message click on commit changes.
Great, now let's hop back over to Jenkins and
click "Build Now" on the project status page.
Let's watch this in action; click on the status ball
and see if there are any improvements in our build.
Well, it looks like we are still failing the build.
That's OK. Let's look at the trend
reports on the project status page.
It looks like we have some changes.
We can review each of the reports to see the impact.
Once again, if we return to the build status page we can
see how far away we are from meeting our threshold.
We also see each of the other reports specify how
many warnings were fixed since the last build.
Ok, let's continue making changes to our project.
I'm going to look for easy fixes to get our build back on
track to at least unstable, that is a yellow ball build.
Alright, back in the "tracker.java" file I'm
going to add braces to an if statement.
and make a few other tweaks and in a few other files.
Each time saving by commit and then running
the build to notice the improvement.
Great, I've made a few more adjustments
to the various files in the project.
Eventually we are back to an unstable build,
which just means that we are under
the threshold to fail the build.
But we still have some warnings to mark this build as unstable.
I think this is a good spot for now.
I could work really hard to reduce the defects or warnings
until we were back to a green build,
however I think you get the point.
In order to get back to a green build again we would need to
fix nearly all the warnings identified in the analysis tools
or change the threshold criteria for unstable builds.
One last thing. Back on the project status page hover the
mouse over the weather icon next to the build history.
We should see several weather items, one of
which should be the static analysis weather.
In this lesson we made changes to our source code
in order to improve the quality of the project,
hopefully getting back to a successful
or at least unstable build status.

--- Publishing Overview ---

Welcome, in this section, we are going to turn
Jenkins into a Maven artifact repository.
so other systems or processes can access our build artifacts.
To be fair this isn't something I would consider a long
term solution for archiving artifacts indefinitely,
but instead an easy way to provide an
artifact repository for recent builds
without having to set up a completely
separate software program for that purpose.
If your team or company needs a fully
featured Maven or artifact repository
consider setting up Sonatype Nexus,
Artifactory, or Apache Archiva.
However, since this course is focused on Jenkins,
let's move forward with the Jenkins only approach.
To turn Jenkins into a Maven repository
we simply need to download and install a special
plugin called the Maven repository server plugin.
Then, after that, we will need to configure our Maven projects
to use Jenkins as a Maven repository when each build completes.
Any new build's artifacts will be available
like a standard Maven repository.
Great, let's get started.

--- Maven Repository Plugin and Configuration ---

Welcome, in this video, I'm going to install the plug
in for creating a Maven repository within Jenkins.
Within Jenkins go to "Manage
Jenkins", then go to Manage Plugins.
Go to the available tab.
On filter type "maven".
Then scroll down until you find the
"Maven Repository Server" plugin.
Check that box and then click on "Download
now and install after restart".
Check the box to restart Jenkins.
Alright, once that's done, go back to the dashboard.
Remember our restart trick if you need it.
With the Maven repository server plugin installed
you should have a new menu item under the left
hand side side menu called "Maven Repository".
Now that we have the plugin installed
let's configure our project to use it.
However, before we can do that we need to
make one small change to our Maven project.
The Maven repository server plugin
requires a web friendly project name
in order to work correctly at the project level.
We've already gone through this process earlier, so I
will walk through it again, a bit faster this time.
Within the time tracker project go into configure.
I'm going to copy the current name, which we
all use as a display name in just a moment.
Now I'm going to rename the project
to "time-tracker", all lowercase.
Notice that I use all lowercase and dashes the separate words.
Save and confirm the changes.
Now, with the project renamed, let's add the display name.
Go to configure.
Then, under advanced, paste in the value from
our clipboard or just type in: "Time Tracker".
This change can be done alongside other changes, so
click Apply to save and continue with other changes.
Scroll down until you find the build environment section.
You should have an item that says "Define
Upstream Maven Repository". Check that box.
When that box is checked you'll have some additional
parameters that you will need to configure.
Upstream type will be project. Project
should be this one, using the new name.
Build should be "Last Successful",
and leave "Promoted Build" empty.
Now that we've done that click save.
Now we should be back on the project status page once again.
In this lesson we installed the Maven repository server
plugin and configured our project to use the plugin,
which we will do in the next lesson
when we build the updated project..

--- Build and Review Artifact Publishing ---

In this video we are going to build our application
with the Maven repository server plugin
enabled and then review the results.
Now that we have configured our project to
use the Maven repository server plugin,
let's build our project to publish our artifacts.
Click on "Build Now".
While that's building there is one thing we haven't
covered yet, that is "enable auto refresh".
For builds that take a bit longer than a few seconds sometimes
you want to see the progress a little more thoroughly.
For now enable auto refresh.
once the build has completed we can disable auto refresh.
When the build completes the artifacts
will be available at two levels:
at the build level for the project and at a
global level across all projects and builds.
Let's start at the build level and see if build
artifacts have been published in the latest build.
Click on the date item next to the
build to open the build item.
With the Maven repository server plugin enabled we should
see a menu item "Build Artifacts As Maven repository",
as well as a new item on the build summary
page: "Upstream Repository" and the URL.
I'm going to test out the upstream repository
URL as provided on the build status page.
I'm going to copy the URL into my clipboard
and then paste the value into the address
bar of a new web browser tab, like so.
If we press enter the browser will load
up the repository page for this build.
From here we can follow the standard repository
folder navigation by drilling in deeper
until we get to the list of artifact
IDs or names for the project.
We can go in once more, for example into
the web module to see the version folder.
Going into the version folder shows all the build artifacts,
metadata, and checksum files related to this build.
Now close the web browser tab and return to
our Jenkins page on the build status page..
From here if we click on "Build Artifacts As Maven Repository"
we go to a similar page directly, except starting one level up.
You'll need to use your web browser's back
button or feature to return to Jenkins.
Because of that let's use this link again but using the open
in tab feature instead of directly clicking on the link.
Now, in the new tab, click on repository.
That takes us to the same location we were before.
From here we can navigate down, but this
time take a look at the core module.
Again, this time we have the build
artifacts for this module as jar files,
along with other supporting files for a Maven repository.
Great close the tab and return to
the build status page on Jenkins.
Now let's look at the global repository.
Return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Once there notice there's an item called Maven repository.
Like we have done before, use the browser open
in new tab feature when clicking on that link.
Otherwise you'll need to use your browser's back
button or feature in order to return to Jenkins.
Once on the new tab we land on the
top level of the Maven repository
created by the Maven repository server plugin.
We have several folders listed here.
The top two are the ones we are most interested in.
The first item, project, is the Maven
repository items by project and build.
Going into that folder gives us a
listing of all the Jenkins projects.
Go into "time-tracker", since that is the
project configured to use the Maven repository.
The other folders represent other projects, but nothing
will be in them unless the project is configured correctly.
At the project level we have several options.
Build is the main one, but last successful basically goes
to the last build that was successful according to Jenkins.
Click into the build folder.
Now we have a list of all the builds.
Click on the last build, which should be at the top.
Now we are in the repository for this specific build.
Click into "repository", and now we are in a familiar place,
the same spot we landed when we clicked on the
repository link on the specific build page.
Like before we can drill down until we get to a page
containing all the build artifacts and related files.
Let's close the web browser tab and
return to our Jenkins dashboard.
Open Maven repository in a new web browser tab.
This time click into the "everything" folder.
The project folder created separate
folder paths for each project and build.
While that's great for isolating artifacts at the build level
it's not the most efficient way to
refer to artifacts hosted on Jenkins.
That's where the everything folder comes in;
it combines all the assets into a single
Maven repository folder structure.
The everything folder is the one to use
if you need to reference dependencies
in other Maven projects for artifacts hosted on Jenkins.
Within the "everything" folder we already have the
top level group folder name, training, listed.
Now navigate into the folder structure
until the modules are listed.
Like in the other cases, all three modules are listed.
Now, when we dive into one of the module
folders, we have all the versions listed.
In this case we just have one snapshot version listed.
But, when we go into the snapshot folder, we have all
the snapshot built artifacts listed at this level,
along with all the standard metadata and supporting files.
That's it for now. Since we are done close
this tab and return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson we built our project with the
Maven repository server plugin enabled,
and then we explored the results in Jenkins.
In the next section we are going to set up and
deploy to Tomcat from our Jenkins build server.

--- Deployment Overview ---

Welcome, in this section, we will download, install,
configure, and deploy to the Apache Tomcat application server
since Tomcat is the most popular Java web
application server currently available.
In doing so we will configure our Jenkins Maven
project to deploy automatically to Tomcat
once the application server is up and running,
which will require installing a new plugin.
This will finish the overall pipeline for
Java projects by including deployment.
Of course, the entire pipeline or
workflow has been very simple.
In your case you might want to add more complete testing
or additional testing steps before automatically
deploying an artifact to a live deployment environment.
Or perhaps you will only allow automatic
deployments to non-production environments
and set up a more manual, approval
driven, production deployment system.
Either way this could be done completely within Jenkins.
The first part of this section will deal
with installation and configuration.
Since this core supports several operating systems,
I have included different installation videos
that focus on Windows Mac and Linux respectively
since the installation process is
rather different on each platform.
If you only care about your operating system
just watch that video and skip the others.
Additionally, since both Jenkins and Tomcat
use port 8080 as their default listening port
there is a bit more set up needed to allow both Jenkins
and Tomcat to run on the same system at the same time.

--- Tomcat Installation ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
download and install Tomcat for Windows 10.
After that we will configure Tomcat
to work well with Jenkins and Maven.
Fire up your favorite web browser
and go to "tomcat.apache.org".
While that happens I have a quick
note about the tomcat Web site;
this site is managed by the Apache Foundation,
which means the pages and navigation to
specific pages may change over time.
Great, with that disclaimer over with go to the download
section of the side menu and click on "Tomcat 9"
Under the version number there should be
several options for available downloads
go to the "32-bit/64-bit Windows Service Installer".
Click on that link to download the
installer program for Tomcat.
Once the download is completed click on open
Once prompted by the UAC click on "Yes".
Alright, now that we have the Tomcat installer set
up and running, on the first page click "Next".
For the license agreement click "I agree".
On choose components review the items here..
I'll add in the "Host Manager" which means
everything is checked, except for examples.
Click on next. Review the configuration page.
For this specific example, if you are installing tomcat on a
system running another server on the same port as port 8080
you might want to change the port
number so they don't conflict.
For example I'm running another server
on port 8080, that's my Jenkins server.
To make sure there isn't a conflict I'm going to
change this port from Port 8080 to port 9080.
I'm also going to update the server shutdown port and AJP
port as well, by changing the first digit from 8 to 9.
Also, under Tomcat administrator login,
I'm going to type in the username tomcat
and I'm also going to use a simple password. In
my case I'm going to use the password tomcat .
Obviously, for production systems, this is not recommended or
secure but since we're just testing this out this is fine.
On the virtual machine location expand this out
and find your virtual machine if necessary.
For me I'm going to point to the JDK
Instead the JRE, then select OK.
Once that's done click on "Next".
Under choose installation location this is fine for me.
If you want to change the destination folder go
ahead and do so. Click on "Install" afterwards.
This will now install Tomcat.
Once the installation wizard has completed I will let
the Tomcat installer run the Apache Tomcat server,
but I don't need to see a ReadMe.
Click on "Finish"
Tomcat is now being started.
To test it out open your web browser tab to "localhost:"
and then the port number that you installed it on.
If you kept the default 8080 then go to 8080. I changed
the default to 9080, so that's where I'm going.
If Tomcat was installed successfully
you should see this welcome screen.
On the Apache Tomcat welcome page click
on the "Manager Application HOW-TO".
Then one of the items under the table of contents
should be "Configuring Manager Application Access".
Click on that item.
Right here in the middle we have a list
of roles that are available to us.
The one we're interested in is called "manager-script".
This is a specific role that allows access to
the text based API for our tools and scripts.
Now I need to edit the configuration for Tomcat.
Before we can do that we need to stop Tomcat.
On Windows use the start menu search to search for services.
Click on the services application in the results.
Once that is open find the item "Apache Tomcat 9.0",
which should be near the top, then click "Stop".
We need to access the desktop, which means we may
need to close or minimize a few things to make room.
Once you can see the desktop again, right click on the
Atom editor icon and choose "Run as Administrator'.
That will open Atom in a special
session that will grant
elevated rights so that we can
edit the configuration of Tomcat.
After confirming this action and Atom is
open go to "File" then "Open Folder".
With the open folder dialog open navigate
to the Tomcat installation folder
by going to "Program Files" on the C-drive,
then "Apache Software Foundation".
The "Tomcat 9.0" folder is the Tomcat installation folder.
Click on that folder and then "Select Folder".
This will load the entire Tomcat folder
structure into Atom, for easy access.
Under the "conf" folder expanded it out.
Click on the "tomcat-users.xml" file.
This file provides the authentication and
authorization for the web applications on Tomcat,
including the management applications that come with Tomcat.
If you followed along so far there
should be one user line at the top
granting access to the "admin-gui" and the "manager-gui" roles.
That's great for accessing the Tomcat management
applications directly from the web browser,
but we need one more user and role item.
Copy the entire user tag and paste it right underneath.
Now change the username and password of the second
user tag to simply Jenkins for both, like so.
Now, instead of the two roles for the GUI access,
replace the entire roles value with the role name we
just looked at, which is the "manager-script" role.
This sets up a new user, jenkins, that will have scripting
access to the management application included with Tomcat.
Of course this isn't the most secure example;
in a real production environment I would recommend
using a much better username password combination.
That's all we need for now, Save your changes to this file.
If you opened Atom with admin rights you should
be able to save the file without any issues.
Once that's done close Atom.
Let's return to the services application on Windows.
If you minimized it, expand it back out.
Find the "Apache Tomcat" service and start it once again.
Once Tomcat is running test out the new user account.
Expand out or open your web browser, and
return to the welcome page for Tomcat
by just going to localhost port 9080,
or whichever port you installed Tomcat.
After that, add a "/manager/text/list".
That is the script access URL for
the manager application for Tomcat
and under that the list command or action.
Press enter to attempt to access that location.
You should be prompted to provide a username and
password, just like we set up in the configuration file.
After logging in you should be given a text only listing
of available applications running on the Tomcat server.
While this information is interesting, the main point
is to verify the script role is accessible
using the Jenkins user we just set up.
Now that we are done, return to the Jenkins dashboard,
but leave this tab open since we will use it later.
In this lesson we downloaded, installed, and configured Apache
Tomcat to run on the same system as our Jenkins server.
Next we will set up Jenkins and our time
tracker project to deploy to Tomcat.

--- Deployment Plugin ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're
going to install the deploy plugin
needed to send the build artifacts to
the Tomcat web application server,
and then we will configure our time tracker project to use
that plugin to deploy the generated "war" file to Tomcat.
Now that we have downloaded, installed, and
configured Tomcat let's integrate this with Jenkins.
In our web browser we should be on the Jenkins dashboard.
From here go to the plugin manager under "Manage Jenkins".
Once there click on the available tab,
and use the filter search for deploy.
Look for the item called "Deploy to container".
If you want to check out more information about this plugin
you can open up a new tab to the plugin page about it.
Either way, once you are ready to install this
plugin, check the box next to the plug in name.
Then click on the button "Download now and install
after restart", which is the safest approach.
Check the box to restart Jenkins.
If Jenkins does not come back after a few moments,
click on the Jenkins icon and sometimes
that refreshes your browser with Jenkins.
Once Jenkins is back return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Alright, now that we have the required plugin
installed, let's hook up our Jenkins project to Tomcat.
For the time tracker project click on configure,
then go to the post build actions, then
select "Deploy war/ear to a container".
Make sure that this item is set up
after the analysis post-build action;
we don't want to bother deploying something
that is so bad that it causes a build failure.
Also, in this context, the term "container"
simply means a web application server
not containerization technology like Docker.
I just want to make sure that was clear.
Within this action for "WAR/EAR files", you can
use an Ant style path for example "**/*.war",
which will pick up any "war" file within our project.
For context path type "/demo".
Under containers go to "Add Container". Select "Tomcat 8.x".
At least as of the recording of this course, the plug
in hasn't been updated to list Tomcat 9 just yet.
However, not much has changed from Tomcat 8
and this plugin will work equally as well.
The Tomcat URL is "http://localhost:9080"
Return to "credentials". Click the "Add"
button to use the credentials manager
to set up a new username and password
configuration to use with this server.
In the dropdown menu select Jenkins.
With the Jenkins credentials provider open
all the pre-filled items should be correct;
Domain should be "Global", kind should be "Username
with password", and scope should be "Global" as well.
Now specify Jenkins for the username and password fields.
For ID this is a unique identifier used internally
by Jenkins.Type "tomcat-manager-scripts".
The description can be anything, but I recommend something
useful to remind yourself about these credentials.
I'm using "Login username and password
for local Tomcat server script manager".
Once all that is done, click "Add".
Now, back to the configuration page.
Under "Tomcat 8.x" credentials there should be a dropdown
containing the item we just created. Select that item.
Once that's all set up, click save, which
returns us to the project status page.
Before moving on I need to make one correction.
I mentioned earlier the deploy step we just
configured should go after the analysis step.
The reverse is actually correct, since the deploy
plugin does not understand the unstable build status.
Of course, there are several ways to address this;
one approach is to simply relax the analysis rules just a
bit to allow more issues to not flag the build as unstable.
We could leave this alone and take a hard line
for deployments, or what I'm going to do now;
simply flip the order to allow the deploy step to
run first, based on the build status at that point.
When the analysis is evaluated afterwards,
it won't affect the deployment step at all.
To do that simply drag and drop the deploy
step above the analysis step, like this.
Once everything is done, click save, which
returns us to the project status page.
In this lesson we installed the deploy to container plugin
needed to deploy successful build artifacts to Tomcat,
and then we configured our project to
use that plugin in a post build action.
In the next lesson we will test out our deploy process.

--- Deployment ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to
deploy our web application to Tomcat
using the deploy to container plugin in Jenkins,
and then we're going to make a few changes to the project
and see if Jenkins can properly redeploy those changes.
Now that we have configured this project to deploy to Tomcat,
let's try it out by building now; click on "Build Now".
Let's watch it in action. I'm going to click on the
status ball that brings up the console output,
and so we should be able to watch this in action.
Great. Once the build has completed,
at the very end let's review the log.
We see here that we have a line that says deploying this war
to the container Tomcat 8 remote, with the context "demo".
Although we're deploying to Tomcat 9 both 8 and 9 are
compatible, at least as far as this plugin is concerned.
The plugin notices the particular "war" is not
yet deployed, so it does a fresh deployment.
Let's flip back over to the manager list on Tomcat.
If we refresh the web application page, we
should see a "/demo" running on context "demo".
Well, let's try it out.
Open up a new tab and go to "localhost:9080/demo"
The example web page should be displayed.
Great, we have confirmed our deployment from Jenkins.
Now that we have a successful deployment let's modify this
page and see if Jenkins can redeploy the same application.
I'm going to flip back over to the GitHub repository.
If you don't already have a browser tab open
to your repository go ahead and open it now.
Go into "src/main/webapp".
Click on the "index.jsp", and edit this file.
All we have to do is make a few minor changes.
The JSP is a special template file that has a mixture of
Java code and HTML tags that renders into standard HTML
back to the web browser when a request is made to
this specific page on this application on Tomcat.
Let's change the title tag within the head section,
the "h1" tag and paragraph tag in the body section.
It doesn't matter the content, just makes sure there
is enough difference to make the changes obvious.
Once done with your changes go to the bottom of the
page, add a commit message, and commit the changes.
Now hop back over to Jenkins.
From the status page of our project, click on "Build Now".
That schedules an immediate build.
Let's watch this in action as well.
Once the project has finished building,
review the last several lines of the log.
There should be a line about deploying the war
file to the container 8.x, which really is 9;
it's redeploying our existing war file.
The plugin detects there is a
previous version already deployed,
so it un-deploys the old war file and
then redeploys the new war file.
Let's flip back over to Tomcat and,
within our application, reload.
We should now see our changes.
In this lesson we tested out deploying our project to
Tomcat using Jenkins via the deploy to container plugin.
After the initial deployment we tested making a change
and seeing Jenkins correctly redeploy the project,
so Tomcat is running the latest war file from
the latest build from our project in Jenkins.
In the next section we are going to go
deeper into the security within Jenkins.

--- Security Overview ---

Welcome, in this section, we will dive
into security within Jenkins a bit more,
since no course on Jenkins would be complete
without a discussion about security.
Since Jenkins 2, there has been a set up wizard the first
time someone attempts to access the Jenkins dashboard.
That process guides users to set up an initial
admin account and also security by default.
This is a major improvement over previous versions
of Jenkins when security was disabled by default,
and everyone accessing Jenkins basically had full admin rights.
While a secure by default approach is great,
there is so much more to Jenkins security,
and we will cover many of those options during this section.
To be fair, security is a vast topic and it is not limited
to configuring users or managing permissions within Jenkins.
In this section we will cover the following:
Manually disabling security; this is a safeguard,
just in case we lock ourselves out of Jenkins
which is easy to do while modifying security settings.
Then we will re-enable security, and
look at some basic security options.
We will manage permissions using the
built in, matrix based security options.
Finally we will become even more fine grained with role
based security, which requires installing a plugin.
After this section you should have a strong foundation
in the major ways to enable and manage
users and permissions within Jenkins.
Great, let's get started with a trick
that just might save your bacon.

--- Manually Disable Security ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
edit the Jenkins configuration file
to disable security as a means of last resort
if you happen to get locked out of Jenkins.
Whenever you mess around with security settings there's
always a possibility of locking yourself out of Jenkins.
If you do that, there aren't many ways to recover
Your options are reinstall Jenkins,
which is often not a viable option,
or to manually disable security in Jenkins by
directly editing the main configuration file;
that's the option I'm going to show you now.
I'll be using Atom as my text editor.
I'm going to open Atom using my desktop icon, right
clicking on the icon, and selecting "Run as Administrator",
which will allow me to edit files my logged
in user normally it does not have access to.
On Mac and Linux I recommend using the terminal
to open Atom by using the sudo command,
which will run Atom as the root user.
When Atom opens, If there is anything open
from a previous session, close that out now.
I'm going to "Add Project Folder",
and navigate until I find the Jenkins
installation folder on my system
With the Jenkins folder open in my project
tree panel click on the "config.xml" file,
which will open in a new panel
containing the contents of that file.
This is the primary configuration file for Jenkins.
There are actually several other configuration files for
Jenkins, which are mainly located in the same directory
but this is the main configuration file, which
contains many of the most important settings.
In particular we are looking for the "useSecurity"
tag, which turns on and off the security in Jenkins.
In this case it is near the top of the
file, just a few lines down from the top.
After that tag we also have the "authorizationStrategy"
tag and the "securityRelm" tag.
Let's use the standard XML comment
syntax to comment out these two tags.
Since my editor understands XML syntax, my display updates
accordingly as I comment out the security related tags.
Now, return to the "useSecurity" tag.
Change the value to false, and then save the file.
As long as you opened Atom as the administrator or the
root user the file should save without any problems.
Once the configuration file is saved,
you will need to restart Jenkins
using your system's service or daemon command, since I
will assume you are completely locked out of Jenkins.
After restarting Jenkins, return to the dashboard.
At this point we have completely
removed security from Jenkins..
In this lesson we manually disabled security in Jenkins
by making edits directly on the main configuration file
for Jenkins, and then restarting the Jenkins server.
While it is nice that we can do this we need to enable some
basic level of security, which we will do in the next lesson.

--- Enable Security and Login ---

Welcome, in this video, we are going
to enable security in Jenkins.
In a previous lesson we disabled security manually
by editing the Jenkins configuration files,
and then restarting the Jenkins service.
However, this leaves our Jenkins server without security,
which was the point, but we don't want
to leave it that way for very long,
especially if you're running a Jenkins server
somewhere accessible to the general internet.
To that point, when we go to "Manage Jenkins",
we will have a friendly reminder setup security.
I could click on "Setup Security", but instead I'm
going to go into the configure global security,
which is the normal way to set up and
configure or modify security in the future.
Once that page loads, we will need that
check on the item "Enable Security".
While this item is unchecked we won't have security enabled.
Great, now that we have enabled security,
authorization is set up for anyone can do anything,
which is almost the same as having no security at all.
The difference being is that users could
log in to have personalized settings,
but log in is not required to do
anything on the Jenkins server.
Under security realm we have three choices currently.
This controls where Jenkins looks for
users and groups for authentication.
The one we're going to use is the middle
option, which is "Jenkins' own user database".
This option will have Jenkins internally
manage the database of users and groups.
Leave the checkbox checked to allow users to sign up.
Otherwise someone with administrator rights will
need to create accounts on behalf of users.
For those unfamiliar with managing security and
access there are two parts that come together;
authentication, which challenges
the user to prove their identity,
and authorization, which controls what
access the authenticated user has.
With that, under authorization, let's change
to "Logged-in users can do anything",
which is slightly more secure than anyone can do anything.
When we select that option we are given the
option to allow anonymous read access,
which does what you think and I'm OK with
that, So I will keep that item checked
If, for some reason, it isn't checked go ahead and check it.
Great, now let's save.
Although we have already created an admin account,
let's create a new standard account user.
On the previous screen I enabled the option that would
allow anyone to register themselves for an account.
That provides me this link here, "Create an account".
I'm going to do that now. And, on this page, I'm
going to fill out the form to create an account.
Once you've done that, click "Sign up".
Remember to sign up a different
account than the one you created
during the installation process earlier in the course.
As we submit the form to create a new user, your web
browser may prompt you to save this information.
Great, now that we've logged, in let's
go back to the Jenkins dashboard.
You'll notice, at the top, your name should be
displayed, confirming that you are logged in,
with a log out option next to it.
Basically Jenkins looks the same as it has before,
but now using our new Jenkins user account.
Let's check out the anonymous access, and in doing so log out.
Now that we have enabled security, poke around a bit.
I'm currently not logged in, so I'm
browsing Jenkins as an anonymous user.
And, as an anonymous user, by default I do have access
to look around at things but not change anything.
Let's go into our project, and I
can see the status of the project
but I can't actually build the
project, at least not manually.
Let's go back up to the dashboard.
You'll also notice that this left
hand side is a little different;
it doesn't include anything that
would allow us to configure Jenkins.
In order to do that we need to log in, so click on "log in".
On the log in screen type the username and password
you created when you signed up, then click "log in".
Great. We're now logged in, and we have the "Build Now" icon,
which will allow us to schedule a build
immediately, as well as the "Manage Jenkins" link.
Also, if we go into our project, we
have the ability to change our project
including building, deleting the
project, or configuring our project.
In this lesson we enabled a basic level of security
by requiring Jenkins users to be logged in
in order to trigger builds or make changes but still
allowing anyone to browse Jenkins in a read only mode.
In the next lesson we will get a bit more
granular by using the matrix-based security.

--- Adding Users in Matrix-Based Security ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going
to set up matrix-based security.
Return to the global security page to
review our security and access options.
Right now the security realm is set up to use
the Jenkins own user database, which is fine.
Other options are much more advanced.
A plugin we will use later will help us address that need,
but if you're running Jenkins in a corporate environment
you might want to explore LDAP or Active Directory Integration.
Under authorization, we have several options available to us.
The more interesting ones would be the "Matrix-based
security" and the "Project-based Matrix Security".
These provide more opportunity to refine the
security model, and they are both closely related.
Let's start with the Matrix-based
security; click on that option.
In doing so, we have a fairly wide
table that expands below that option.
This table provides a matrix of
permissions based on users and groups.
By default you get two groups: anonymous
users and authenticated users.
You could probably guess what these two groups represent.
Long wise we have each of their permissions we can
change or manage grouped into several categories.
For example the overall category represents
the global, sweeping permissions.
The permissions become more specific
as we move across the table.
At the very end we have two small buttons that allow
setting or unsetting all the items for a specific row.
Return to the start of the table. We have
access to a field to add users and groups.
As I've mentioned before, groups aren't
supported by the internal Jenkins database,
but we can add the users we've already created.
I'll start with the admin account that
we set up at the start of the course.
Type the username in the field and click add.
A new row will show up under the two
preexisting groups for the newly added user,
displaying the full name of the account.
Let's add the other account we just created.
Now we can set the specific permissions by group and by user
For anonymous users click on the "Read"
box within the "Overall" category.
This will provide some basic, read-only,
access to non-logged in users.
Additionally, click "Discover", "Read",
and "Workspace" permissions under "Job".
And finally "Read" under "Review".
You can hover your mouse over each permission for
more information about that particular item.
The same is true for each of the
specific checkboxes within the table,
which can be handy as the table grows with many users.
For the other groups and users let's take advantage of
the shortcut buttons on the far end of the table rows.
Click the checkmark image for the second and third rows.
The fourth row is my normal user account;
I'm just going to use the same permissions
as the other normal authenticated users
To remove a user click on the red
X, which I do for the last row.
Now, let's refine the permissions a bit.
Of course, we need to provide some distinction
between the Admin account and everyone else.
Uncheck the following permissions for the
second row: "Administer" under "Overall",
all permissions under "Credentials", and all
permissions except for "Build" under "Agent".
Authenticated users still have a lot of permissions,
but simply don't have the rights to
change anything under Manage Jenkins.
Double check the permissions table and make sure at least
one user has admin rights, or all permissions checked.
This is one place where it is super
easy to lock yourself out of Jenkins.
If that happens, you'll have to use the manual configuration
trick to disable security to allow yourself back into Jenkins.
Assuming everything looks good,
click "Save" to save the changes.
Like we've done before let's confirm the expected
access for non-logged in users by logging out.
Return to the Jenkins dashboard, which should
display the jobs we have set up so far.
And, like before, you won't have access to trigger builds,
make configuration changes, or of course Manage Jenkins.
Take a few moments to poke around
and see how things are different.
Until now, we really haven't had a distinction
between a normal user and the admin user
we created at the start of the course.
With the matrix based security we
now have that difference in place.
We can see that by logging into Jenkins using the normal
or non-admin user account we created earlier in this section.
Once logged in we have more permissions to do things
in Jenkins, like trigger builds or configure jobs,
but we can't manage Jenkins; the menu item is no longer listed.
Again, poke around to notice any
additional rights for authenticated users.
Now let's log back in as the admin account.
Once logged in the "Manage Jenkins" option is
back and we can do anything in Jenkins again.
Let's return to the security page for one last change.
We just covered matrix-based security, which provides
greater refinement or permissions at the global level.
However, "Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy"
provides even more control by enabling
security at the project level.
When we select that option we are presented with the same
table from the matrix-based security that we just covered.
However, any permissions set up here will
provide the default or system wide permissions
which can be overwritten at the project level.
Replicate the permissions we set up earlier.
Once that's done let's modify the
permissions for authenticated users.
Uncheck the following items: "Configure",
"Create", and "Delete" under "Job";
"Delete" under "Run"; "Configure" and "Delete" under "View".
Double check that all security settings prevent
locking yourself out of Jenkins, and then click save.
Great. We just set up the defaults and system wide permissions.
The changes remove the configuration
related permissions from jobs,
but still allows builds, at least for authenticated users.
Now, let's modify specific project permissions.
However, we need to refresh our log in configuration
by logging out and logging back in again.
Log back in as the admin account this time.
Once back, return to the Jenkins dashboard and then go
into the configure page for the time tracker project.
Near the top of the general section there should be a
new option called "Enable project-based security".
Checking that option expands out a similar table to the
matrix-based security in the global security page,
except this table is limited to the permissions
applicable for this job and related builds.
By default the project will inherit the
global permissions we set up earlier.
We can provide additional security permissions
that only apply to this project or job
Underneath the table add the normal user account.
Then use the shortcut button to apply
all the permissions to that user.
We can leave the other two rows empty as
they will inherit the global permissions.
Now, log out and log back in as the normal user.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard let's go into
another project in order to contrast the permissions.
In this project we can trigger new builds but we
can't really make any changes to the project.
Now return to the Jenkins dashboard and
then into the time tracker project.
In this case we have a lot more
permissions for this specific project.
Before moving forward, let's take a few moments
to undo much of the work with done in this video,
so that we can set up and be ready for the next topic.
In order to do that, we need to
re-log in as the Admin user account.
Once that is done return to the configure
page for the time tracker project
and uncheck the project based
security, and then save the changes.
After that, return to the global security page.
Under "Authorization" change the option
back to "Logged-in users can do anything".
In this lesson we improved security even more by
using two levels of the matrix based security.
Using the project-based matrix security can be a great
way to implement very granular access in Jenkins.
This option works well for small
to medium-sized Jenkins systems.
If you need more power we can install and use the role
security plugin, which we will do in the next lesson.

--- Users Role ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to change over
to the role security authentication for fine grained
So far, we've enabled to security and explored
increasing levels of better security.
In order to take things further,
we need to install another plugin.
Go to "Manage Plugins",
and then go to the available tab.
Within the filter search field type "role".
Find the "Role-based Authorization Strategy".
Check that item and then click on the button
for "Download now and install after restart".
While here we'll also check the box to restart Jenkins.
Once Jenkins has finished restarting, log in if necessary.
In doing so, make sure you log in as the admin account.
If you automatically logged in as your other account
log out, and then re-login as the admin account.
Once logged in go to "Manage Jenkins", and
then click on "Configure Global Security".
Let's verify our plugin was successfully installed;
under authorization, we should now have
an option for "Role-Based Strategy".
Now that we verified that the "Role-Based
Strategy" plugin has been enabled
on the configure global security page, under the
authorization section, select "Role-based Strategy".
Once you've done that click save.
Once you return to the "Manage Jenkins" page
scroll down and we should now have a new
item called "Manage and Assign Roles".
Click on that item.
This is where we manage roles and assign users to those roles.
Click on "Manage Roles".
We have three categories of roles: "Global
roles", "Project roles", and "Slave roles".
We'll be concerning ourselves with global and
project roles, starting off with global roles
I like to think of roles as a type of group
of users with the same access rights.
Doing so overcomes the lack of groups while using
the Jenkins internal database for authentication.
By default we're given a single roll called admin that
has all the permissions and there are no project roles.
Use the "Role to add" field to add two more global roles.
First let's add a roll called users, which will represent
authenticated users from the previous security models.
Type in "users" and click on the "Add" button.
Great, now let's add the other role called guests, which
will be for non-logged in users, that is anonymous users.
As we add each new role, the
permissions table will expand a bit.
The permissions table is basically the same table that
we've seen in setting up the matrix security earlier.
If you need a reminder of what something means simply
hover your mouse over that item for some help text.
For the "users” role check the following items:
"Read" under "Overview"; "View" under "Credentials";
"Build" under "Job"; "Build" under "Agent";
"Cancel", "Discover", "Read", and "Workspace"
under "Job"; "Update" under "Run";
"Read" under "Review"; and "Tag" under "SCM"
I realize that's all very specific; basically I want the user's
role to be able to trigger builds and review the results
without being able to make significant changes
to the builds or the Jenkins configuration.
For the "guests" role, which will be much
more restrictive, check the following items:
"Read" under "Overview"; "Discover", "Read", and
"Workspace" under job; and "Read" under "View".
The guest role will provide read-only access
to Jenkins and all the jobs defined within it.
Take a few moments to review the
configuration of the new roles.
Make sure you leave the admin role with all checkboxes
or you risk locking yourself out of Jenkins.
Of course, the permissions I'm setting up could be anything;
you may choose more or less restrictive permissions.
Once content with the new roles, we need the save our changes.
Go to the bottom of the page and click on the save button.
This should return us to the "Manage and Assign Roles" page.
Now that we have our global roles defined,
we need to assign users to those roles.
To do that, go into the "Assign Roles" page.
Here we have the three roles we defined
earlier: "admin", "users" and "guests".
We will also have a list of users and
groups we can assign to those roles.
By default the logged in account that enabled
role-based security will be granted the admin role.
This, of course, can be changed
later, but for now this is fine.
This is also the reason why I wanted you to log
in as the Admin User for this part of the video.
Add the other user account, that is the non-admin
account, using the "User/group to add" field.
Once you have type in your user's name click "Add".
Your other account name should appear in the permissions table.
Now assign that user to the user's role.
I'll also assign the provided
"Anonymous" group to the guest role.
Once that's done review the changes.
Confirm the admin account is assigned to the admin role.
Now click the save button at the bottom of the page.
We will, again, return to the "Assign and Manage Roles" page.
The permissions changes should take effect immediately.
Let's start by logging out.
Once logged out, the permissions we will be
assigned to will be the global guests role,
in this case we can see our jobs in a read-only mode.
Of course, we can't trigger any builds or manage Jenkins.
This is very similar to the other anonymous
access that we have in other security approaches.
Now, let's log in as the non-admin user.
Once logged in, the permissions of
the user's role will be applied,
which will allow us to trigger builds on all the jobs.
However we aren't able to configure, delete, or create new
jobs, nor are we able to do anything management related.
Finally, log back in as the admin user.
We should be back to the full permissions.
In this lesson we installed and enabled
the role-based strategy plugin
in order to provide finer level of security within Jenkins
We created a couple new roles and
assigned our users to those roles,
and then verified the access to Jenkins afterwards.
In the next lesson we will go even deeper by
assigning permissions based on the project.

--- Project Role ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we will set up the
role-based security at the project level.
For this video I want to set up a couple of freestyle projects
From the Jenkins dashboard click on "New Item".
For the project name I want to use a specific convention,
basically prefixing a team name and
then the name of the software project.
Let's call it "awesome-client"; again all
lowercases with dashes to separate words.
Select "Freestyle project" and then click "OK".
For now I'm not going to configure anything, so just "Save".
I want to create a couple more projects
using "awesome" as the project name prefix.
Follow the same steps to create freestyle projects
named "awesome-service" and awesome-library.
You can set up other projects that follow
the same pattern if you're really up for it
Once done creating all the projects, return to the
Jenkins dashboard where all the projects will be listed.
Now that we've added several other projects,
let's refine the role security to allow a normal
user to manage all the "awesome" projects.
While logged in as the admin user, return to "Manage Roles"
under "Manage and Assign Roles" within "Manage Jenkins".
From the global section our non-admin account has the
rights or permissions granted by the user's role,
which isn't enough for the "awesome" projects.
For those that user should be able to make
configuration changes or any other types of changes.
We only want to apply the elevated rights
to the "awesome" projects, and no others.
Jump down to the project roles.
We need to add a role and a pattern for that role.
The "Role to add" field is the name of the roll.
I recommend using a name like the project
name plus the access level for the role.
The pattern is a regular expression that will match against
the project or job names for inclusion in the role.
This is one reason that all the new
project use the prefix "awesome" in them.
For "Role to add" I'm using "awesome-admin", since this role
will effectively Grant admin rights to the awesome jobs.
For the pattern I'm using this expression: up carrot;
the literal text "awesome-"; period; then asterisk.
Then click "Add" to add the project roll.
Once the new roll appears in the table just check all the items
and click "Apply" at the bottom of the
page to save our progress so far.
Great, now let's dig in to the regular expression we just used.
Regular expressions are notoriously complex and often
require a detailed breakdown of what's going on.
I recommend using an online tool, or an application
to help with composing regular expressions.
One web site that I have found very useful is "regex101.com".
Open it up in a new web browser tab.
Let's copy the expression we just used and paste it
into the regular expression field in the other tab.
Then, in the test string field, type the name
of one of the projects: "awesome-client"
We should have one match detected.
You can hover your mouse over each of the
characters in the regular expression field
for an explanation of what each character does.
The highlighted characters have special meaning
and the other characters are literals.
The expression breaks down like this:
the leading carrot sets the start position for the
pattern; then the literal text of "awesome-";
finally ending with a dot, which matches any character;
followed by an asterisk, which means zero or more times.
This combination effectively matches
any remaining part of the string.
Basically, this pattern will match any
project name that starts with "awesome-".
Any regular expressions can be
complex, but they are very powerful.
For now let's return to Jenkins.
Let's finalize our changes by clicking save,
which saves the changes and returns
us to the manage and assign roles.
Let's return to the "Assign Roles" page and apply the new role.
Go down to the "Item roles" and then
add the name of the non-admin account.
Once the user is added check the
item under the name "awesome-admin",
which is the name of the project level role we created earlier.
Once done click "Save".
Now that we have created our project level role and
assigned a user to that role we need to test it out.
Since we are currently logged in as the admin
user, log out and log back in as the other user.
Once logged in as the other user, from the Jenkins dashboard,
you should have access to build and view any project.
However, you should have additional access
to all the projects that start with awesome.
Click on any one of them, and confirm that
you have access to the configure page.
Return to the Jenkins dashboard, and then
do the same for the time tracker project.
This time, like before, you don't have access to the configure
page since that option is not listed in the side menu.
In this lesson we demonstrated the use of the
role strategy plugin to provide additional power
in managing groups of projects with
the power of regular expressions.

--- Jenkins Production Using Lightsail Overview ---

Welcome, in this section, we are going to move
into a more production style setup with Jenkins
by implementing a Jenkins server hosted in the cloud.
There are several reasons for moving into the cloud.
We first started off with a local installation of Jenkins,
which is certainly one of the easiest and
definitely the cheapest ways to get to know Jenkins.
However, at some point you have to move beyond
the local system in order for others to benefit.
That brings us to this section,
where I will walk you through how to setup Jenkins
in a production style environment using Amazon Lightsail.
In doing so we will set up Jenkins
in an Internet accessible manner,
which opens up new abilities and features that
simply wouldn't work while remaining local.
While considering a home for Jenkins as the backbone
of your CI/CD infrastructure there are many options.
One is the traditional self-hosting
or on premise hosting, either
under a desk in the office or
in your company's datacenter.
You might be required to go this route for various reasons.
More commonly companies are moving to the cloud.
The cloud is just another way of
saying someone else's datacenter.
That's it; there's nothing fancy about it.
In fact, companies have been using cloud
computing before it was called the cloud.
We had co-location hosting, where companies rented
space for their own hardware in a data center.
Then we had dedicated server hosting,
where companies would rent existing hardware in a datacenter.
Then virtualization made it possible to
rent only a small part of that hardware,
which has grown into infrastructure as a service or IaaS,
with companies providing fancy web-based
management of virtualized infrastructure.
What we think of the main cloud hosting providers of
today, that is Amazon, Microsoft, and Google,
are just refinements and enhancements to the IaaS offerings
by providing an ever expanding list of services
beyond the simple virtual machine hosting.
However, with added abilities comes with it
increased complexity, especially around billing.
That's where Amazon Lightsail comes into play.
This course is primarily about Jenkins and CI/CD processes,
so I don't want to spend too much time going into
the complexities of a major cloud hosting provider
just to stand up a Jenkins server and related services.
I looked at Digital Ocean, Linode, or other virtual private
server hosting or infrastructure as a service providers.
Most don't provide a free trial period, even though
most services are relatively inexpensive these days.
Lightsail offers inexpensive consistent hosting services
after an initial free one month trial with all the simplified
collections of services backed by Amazon AWS resources,
just without the complexity and the huge
learning curve normally associated with AWS.
That allows us to focus on Jenkins instead of the platform.
Of course you will need to learn about
Lightsail, but I will guide you through it
and I won't be skipping the required
steps in order to oversimplify it.
We don't have to; Amazon takes care of all
the details without making us less secure.
Of course, there are tradeoffs.
Lightsail is really like having a virtual private server
hosting offered by Amazon instead of other hosting providers
which means Lightsail would be a good fit for
hosting needs that would normally go into a VPS,
like Linote or Digital Ocean.
Like other VPS providers Lightsail provides a
handful of pre-configured template applications,
like WordPress, Joomla, or a LampStack server,
or you can select from an even smaller list
of operating system only starting points.
These offerings can be a little out of date; for example,
right now, AWS Lightsail offers the prior LTS release of Ubuntu
although the current LTS release has been
publicly available for over six months.
Also, while Lightsail uses standard
AWS resources under the hood,
none of those resources will appear in your normal AWS account.
Everything in AWS Lightsail is managed
entirely within a separate web interface,
which is separate from the normal AWS console.
However, it is possible to use AWS resources directly
within Lightsail by using a special link called VPC peering,
which gives us a way to start out
in Lightsail and grow accordingly.
Since I will be walking you through all the steps you can
think of this section as a mini-course about AWS Lightsail
in addition to how to set up Jenkins in a cloud environment.
One last thing I need to mention,
since I will be using AWS starting in this section
you might not be able to follow along if
you are not in a country serviced by AWS.
Also some services I will be using won't be free.
I'll do my best to stay within the free tier,
or to use services included during the free month trial period
but not all services qualify and I'm not going
to hold back just because they aren't free.
If you aren't able to follow along, either because
of geography or finances, I sincerely apologize.
But many of the concepts covered are
still worth watching and taking notes.
Now that we understand what we're getting into
let's dive in by setting up an AWS account.

--- AWS Signup ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
set up an AWS account and sign into it.
Now, if you already have an AWS account and you know
how to sign into it, then you may skip this lesson.
For everyone else you can sign up for a
free AWS account by opening your web browser
and going to "aws.amazon.com".
Keep in mind that Amazon may change the
sequence or the contents of the following pages.
Once the AWS home page loads, there should be a
button directing you to create an AWS account.
Find that button and click on it.
That should direct you to a "Create an AWS Account"
page that will ask you some initial questions like
email address, account password, and desired account name.
This will be the root account name.
You can create individual users later on within the account.
Then continue on to the next page.
Here we will need to provide our contact information.
After that we will be asked for our payment information.
Since it is possible to use paid services during the free trial
period a credit card or debit card is required to sign up.
Right now, after submitting your payment information,
you will be asked to confirm your account using your phone.
Fill out the form and click "Call Me Now",
and provide the numbers displayed to the
automated prompt when Amazon calls you.
After successfully confirming your account you should
have a nice green check like this. Click continue.
One of the last steps is to choose your support plan.
The basic plan is all we need for this course.
Finally you can optionally fill out a personalization form.
Now you'll be directed to sign in to your newly created
AWS account using your email address and password.
Again, this will be the root or main AWS account.
If you already have an AWS account then
you can simply log in to AWS like normal.
Open your web browser and go to "aws.amazon.com".
There should be a button inviting you to sign in to the console
The console is what Amazon calls the web
interface for managing AWS resources.
If you haven't been there in a while you may
be prompted for your account email address,
otherwise you'll land on the password
challenge page where you can sign in
Once logged in you will land on a page
listing all the available services in AWS.
In this lesson we walked through the AWS
account creation process and signed in.
Next let's review where we can get the
code examples for the rest of this section.

--- Course Repository ---

Welcome, in this video, we are going to review
the GitHub repository associated with this course
and, in particular, the set of files and
scripts we will use in the next few lessons.
I have set up a special repository
on GitHub for supporting files.
Open your web browser and go to "github.com/jenkins-training"
That takes us to the Jenkins training GitHub organization.
Once there go to the "jenkins-bootcamp-course" repository.
Within the repository there will be an AWS a folder.
Go into that and then lightsail, since that will be
the part of AWS we will be using in this section.
There are several files there.
Since I'm adding to this repository as I develop this
course you may see even more files when you visit here.
Instead of walking through each step manually,
which is what we basically did at the start of
the course for the Linux installation process,
I'm just going to walk through a script I've created
to automate the setup and installation
of Jenkins and supporting tools.
The only part of this script that I haven't
already covered will be the Nginx web server,
which will act as a reverse proxy.
The first installation script will
be the "jenkins-master.sh" file.
Click on that file to open it.
The first line of the script, called the shebang,
tells the shell environment which program or language to use
to read and execute the rest of the script.
In this case this is a bash script.
The first several script lines
use the "apt-get" package manager
to install several utilities
including Git and open JDK.
The "-y" option allows us to automatically pass the acceptance
prompts, otherwise the script would hang at that point.
Then the script will download and install Maven.
I will use a variable to hold the specific version of
Maven so I only have to change it in one location later
The next few lines are the slight variation of the script lines
taken from the Jenkins installation instructions
for Debian-based Linux distributions.
Instead of updating the main apt repository file,
I created a dedicated one for Jenkins instead.
After all that we installed Jenkins using "apt-get"
and then make sure the Jenkins Damon
is enabled and running on our system.
All this so far is really nothing new, perhaps even better
scripted out than the first time around, but that's about it.
The rest of the script will install the Nginx web server and
download a configuration file, which will look at after this.
By default Jenkins runs on port
8080, which we have seen before.
While running locally this isn't a major issue,
however once we put Jenkins on the open Internet
I want to put Jenkins behind a proxy server that is
only accessible via the normal web site port of 80.
This limits our exposure, since that is the normal port
open and it won't require making any firewall changes.
Like we did with Jenkins the last few lines
will enable and start the Nginx daemon.
Now return to the Lightsail folder and
click on the "lightsail-jenkins.conf" file.
That will be the nginx configuration needed to
set up a reverse proxy to the Jenkins server.
Nginx will listen on port 80 and pass along
all traffic to port 8080 on the local host.
That's where Jenkins will be running.
There are a few instructions here to help nginx
with the reverse proxy, like setting some headers.
Once done reviewing this file, return to lightsail folder.
Here we have a ReadMe file with
instructions on how to set up a KeyPair.
We will follow these instructions soon in an upcoming lesson.
In this lesson I walked through
the script and configuration files
that will be used in the next lesson to
create a Jenkins server proxied by Nginx.

--- Jenkins Instance ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to use the
configuration and script files reviewed in the previous lesson
to spin up a Jenkins server in AWS Lightsail.
In your web browser leave the GitHub page up,
and in another tab or window go to "aws.amazon.com".
Once there log in to the AWS console if you haven't already.
After the login page sequence you will be greeted
with a listing of all the AWS services available.
As you can see this can be a bit intimidating,
which is why we're going to use AWS Lightsail.
Clicking on that link takes us to a dedicated AWS
Lightsail interface, which is in a separate area on AWS.
All Lightsail resources are managed exclusively from here
and none of those resources will be
displayed on the normal AWS interface.
As you can tell this is a much more simplified interface
that centers around managing Lightsail instances.
Let's start by clicking on the create instance button.
This brings us to the "Create an instance" wizard.
While it generally picks reasonable defaults
we do have the ability to change a few details.
For example, you can click on the link to
change the AWS region and availability zone.
That gives us several options.
Right now we don't need to go into that detail.
I just wanted to show you that you could change
a few options while creating your instance.
Let's keep the interface simple, so I will jump back
out of the wizard and enter it again to reset the page.
I'll keep the default location for this instance as "Virginia,
Zone A" since it really doesn't matter much right now.
Now let's pick the instance image to use as our starting point.
We need to pick our platform.
We could choose from a Linux/Unix or Windows based system.
For each platform there are several blueprints to choose
from, which are tailored to the underlying platform.
I'm going to keep it on Linux/Unix.
Since none of the blueprints really
fit our needs I just want the OS only.
This provides me a nice list of operating systems.
I like starting with Ubuntu for most of my servers and
that's how I designed the startup script we reviewed earlier.
Once I select Ubuntu a summary is display below,
giving me a link to the AWS marketplace where I
can get more details about this specific image.
While this has some useful information here
a lot of the stuff is geared towards
using the image on the normal AWS account.
Once done reviewing the marketplace page about the image
jump back to the Lightsail create an instance wizard.
Now that we have selected our
location and operating system image
under the optional section we have the
ability to specify a launch script,
which will be run the first time our instance is launched.
Clicking that text will expand out a text field
we can use to put the contents of our script.
Let's hop back over to our GitHub tab and
click into the "jenkins-master.sh" file.
Once that loads click on the raw button to provide
only the contents of the script for easier copying.
We can take a moment to review the contents of the script.
This script will be run as the root user,
which has full administrative rights on the system.
This allows the script to do whatever it
needs to do during the startup process.
As noted before this script will only be run once and
only during the first time the instance is started.
Select the entire contents of this
file and copy it to your clipboard.
Return to the web browser tab with
the "Create an instance" wizard page
and paste in the script contents
into the launch script text box.
The next item we need to do is set up an SSH key pair.
This is how we will be able to login to
our instance server once it is running..
If you don't need to do this then
the default key pair will be fine,
however we will need to login,
so let's set up our own key pair.
Like before, clicking on the text
expands out our key pair options.
We have a couple options here; we can either have
AWS create a key pair for us or upload our own.
I'm a bit of a control freak so I prefer uploading my own.
However, we have to first create the
key pair locally before we can do that.
Head back over to our GitHub browser
tab and return to the lightsail folder.
If you are still on the raw file page use your
browser's back button to return to GitHub.
Once back on the lightsail folder notice
the contents of the ReadMe file below.
This provides the instructions to
follow to create an SSH key pair.
If you have a new account, especially on Windows,
you might need to create the ".ssh" folder
first before going into that folder.
The main command is the "ssh-keygen" command.
Let's copy that line into our clipboard.
What this line will do is create an SSH key pair
using RSA encryption with a bit length of 4096.
I also like specifying my email address in
the key comments and the file output name
which will be "aws-lightsail-jenkins-master.key".
Of course make sure you change
the email address to be your own.
Now open up a terminal on Mac or Linux,
or the Git bash program on Windows.
You should start within your home directory.
From here, go into the ".ssh" folder.
I'm going to list the files here. If you have a
fresh account you might not have any files here yet.
Let's paste in the contents of our clipboard and
then adjust the command for the email address.
With that done, press enter to run the keygen command.
You'll be prompted to enter a passphrase.
To keep things simple just press enter to skip that.
Once out of the keygen process list the files again.
Now we have two new files; the
"key" file and the "key.pub" file.
The pub file is the public key.
We need to leave the private key here, in the ".ssh" folder,
and then copy the pub file into our home directory
for easy access via the upload dialog next.
Great. Now let's hot back over to our Web browser
and to the "Create an instance" wizard page.
Click on upload new, which opens a key pair dialogue.
We have the option to change the location where the key
pair will be registered but the default should be fine.
Click on "Upload" to open the upload dialog.
Click on "Choose file" and go find
the public key file we just created.
Since I copied it to my home
directory it is pretty easy to find.
Select the file and click "Open".
After a few moments you should return to create
an instance wizard with a new key pair selected.
We're almost done; we just need to
choose a hosting plan for this instance.
For now the default, lowest cost, option should be just fine.
It also happens to qualify for a free month.
This is actually a major benefit to using Lightsail;
these plans offer a much more simplified
and consistent billing approach
instead of being purely consumption
based, like the rest of AWS.
Finally we need to give our instance a name.
AWS will automatically give you a recommended
name based on the choices we've made so far,
but this isn't specific enough for me.
Let's call it "Jenkins-Master-1".
We'll create more instances later on.
We will also have the option to create more than one
instance at a time but we don't need do that right now.
Once you are done filling out this page click the create
button to create your first AWS Lightsail instance.
Doing so will put us back on the instances
page, but this time with an instance listed.
Initially our new, grayed-out instance will be pending,
while the instance is being created
and any launch scripts are being run.
When the instance is ready the state
will change from pending to running,
and the colors will change to indicate
that we can do something with the instance.
We can make sure things are up and
running by clicking on the terminal icon.
That will open up a terminal shell
directly within our Web browser.
While you could manage your instance this way I really
prefer using my own terminal program directly on my system
For now close the terminal web browser tab.
In this lesson we walked through the create
an instance wizard within AWS Lightsail,
which resulted in our first virtual machine instance
that should be running Jenkins, as per the launch script.
In the next lesson we will set up a dedicated static IP address
and associate it with a domain record to provide
a friendlier way to access our Jenkins server.

--- Static IP Address and DNS ---

In this lesson we are going to further refine
our setup by associating a static IP address
and then registering that with a domain
record for easy access in the future.
For this lesson, in order to follow along exactly,
I recommend having access to a domain name you can manage
so that you can add a record to refer
to an IP address we will set up soon.
If you don't have access to a domain name you
can still watch and get an idea of what to do
or to recommend to your network administrator.
Currently I'm on the Amazon Lightsail
page, on the instances tab.
We have the instance we just created.
Associated with that instance is
a publicly accessible IP address.
Newly created instances are given one dynamically.
However, if we needed to stop our instance or replace it
with another copy we would be allocated another IP address.
While this might not sound like a big deal, most people don't
like having IP addresses to memorize for services they use,
especially if they happen to change sometimes.
That's why we have domain names.
The domain name system allows us to associate a user friendly
name, like "jenkins.example.com", to a specific IP address.
However, since domain records take several
hours or days to update around the world
it's not a good idea to use dynamically
allocated ones for this purpose.
That's where static ip addresses come in.
With AWS Lightsail you are allowed to
use up to 5 static IP addresses for free.
That should be more than enough for us;
we only need to associate a static IP
address for services endpoints or web sites
we need to share publicly or with
others on our team or company.
Let's start off by going over to the networking tab.
Then click on "Create static IP".
Once on the create a static IP address page you can change
the location where the IP address will be available,
but the default should be fine.
The main thing is the dropdown for selecting
which instance to attach the IP address.
Once the static IP address is associated with the specific
instance that instance's current IP address is released
and the static IP address becomes the publicly
accessible IP address for that particular instance.
That's why I like to setup a static
IP address as early on as possible.
Now click on the dropdown and select
the one and only instance we have.
Once you do that the dropdown will be
replaced with the instance name and details.
Like all our Lightsail resources we need
to give the static IP address a name.
Of course this would make more sense if we had multiple IP
addresses to manage, but either way it's still required.
Let's name the IP address after our instance,
like this: "Jenkins-Master-1-StaticIp".
While we're here there's one other quirk to
how static ip addresses work in Lightsail;
they must always be attached to an instance.
Otherwise you'll be charged a small fee
for every hour you have the static IP address
reserved but not otherwise attached anywhere.
However, the first hour is free so you can
change where the static IP address points.
Great. Now click on the create button
to create your static IP address.
Now that we have our very own static IP address,
copy that IP address to your clipboard
since we're going to be using it very soon.
Let's click back to home,
which brings us back to the instances tab.
Here you should note that the public IP address is
now the static IP address that was allocated for us.
This next part is optional but highly recommended.
You'll need access to a domain name you can manage.
Now that we have our own static IP address
I want to associate it with a domain record to
create a user friendly name for our Jenkins server.
While you can move your domain management
to Lightsail, you don't have to;
I'm just going to use my existing domain
registrar's domain management services.
Of course your domain registrar's interface will be
different, but the overall concepts should be about the same.
I'm going to open up another web browser tab,
and go to my domain registrar, and log into my account.
Once I'm logged in I will need to
navigate to the domain I want to update.
In this case I own a domain called "jenkins.training"
Within that page I need to navigate to the
DNS management interface for that domain.
Since Jenkins is a build server I want to create
a subdomain record called "build.Jenkins.training"
that will point to the static IP
address we created in Lightsail.
There are many different types of DNS records,
but the one we need to use is the "A Record".
That will allow us to associate a name to an IP address.
Once I select the "A Record" type
I will specify "build" as the name.
I only need to specify the subdomain part of the name.
Then I need to paste in the IP address from the clipboard.
I'll leave the time to live field as
automatic, and now I will save the record.
If you want you can bounce back to Lightsail to
make sure that we have the correct IP address.
Since the domain name system is a global network
it might take a couple of days before
this change is seen throughout the world.
Because of that the next thing we need to do is hack
our local system to see this association regardless.
On most systems there is a special file that
overrides any values in the Domain Name System.
This is the "hosts" file.
The networking stack always checks this file first before
resolving any given name using the domain name system.
While editing the host file is not
a recommended practice in general.
It does come in handy for situations just like this.
Also, if you actually don't have
access to a domain name you can manage.
this might be the only way you can continue to follow along.
On Mac and Linux the host file is located at "/etc/hosts".
Since this is a system level file we
need to elevate our access using sudo,
or log in as the root user, in order to edit this file.
I'm going to use a simple text editor, nano,
to edit the host file: "sudo nano /etc/hosts".
Of course you'll need to be logged in as
a user with sudo access for this to work.
Normally you will be prompted for your account
password when attempting to run anything with sudo.
After providing my password nano should be launched
with the contents of our existing host file loaded.
The format is fairly straightforward.
Each line represents a DNS entry.
The line starts with the IP address followed by the
domain name, which is separated by some whitespace.
Paste in the static IP address and then
type the full name to the Jenkins server.
I'm using the full name of "build.jenkins.training",
but of course you need to use your own domain name.
Once done making your changes press
"control+X" to begin the exit process.
Nano will prompt you if you want to
save the changes. Press Y for yes.
Then you'll be prompted for the file name; just press
enter to continue to use the existing file name.
On a Windows system it can be a bit more tricky.
Like on Mac and Linux you need to edit the
host file with the administrator rights.
Since I have Atom installed I can use the desktop
icon to run Atom as administrator, like so.
You might be prompted like this, just click yes to continue.
Now use your editor's file menu to open a file,
which should bring up an open file dialog like this.
I've already hunted down this file in a previous
session so Atom happens to remember this.
The host file on Windows is located in a special
folder located within your "windows" folder,
then "system32/drivers", and then finally "etc".
There should be a file called "hosts" located there.
Select that file to open it.
Let's do the same thing we did on the Mac and Linux side.
It follows the same format: IP address,
some whitespace, and then full domain name.
Once you're done making the changes
save the file and close your editor.
Great, now that that's done, let's head back over to Lightsail.
In this lesson we set up a static IP
address and associated it with a domain name
for a user friendly name for our Jenkins server.
However, since the DNS system takes
a while to propagate around the world
we also hacked our local system's host file to override
the domain resolution until the DNS system can catch up.
With all that in place we can move forward
with accessing our instance via SSH.

--- Instance Access ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we will access
our instance using SSH or secure shell.
In a previous lesson we associated our newly
created instance with a static IP address.
We can now use that IP address to login using the secure
shell program on the terminal or in Git bash on Windows.
Before we do that let's make a note of the IP address,
which should still be in our system's clipboard,
and the default username associated with the running instance.
This will be the username we will need to log in using SSH.
Now open your terminal program on your
system and type the following command:
"ssh ubuntu"; the "@" symbol; and then paste in the
static IP address; space; and then the "-I" option,
which allows us to specify the SSH key to use; space;
and finally the full path to the private
SSH key we generated in a previous lesson.
Your command should look something like this,
but of course using your specific IP address.
Now press enter to attempt to login.
Since this is our first attempt at connecting to this server we
will be prompted to accept the SSH fingerprint for this server.
Type yes and press enter to continue.
You should end up on a screen like this,
showing us some welcome text and some
details about potentially pending updates.
As mentioned before, one of the disadvantages is that
the available options are often somewhat outdated.
We will fix that a bit later on.
Right now, while we are here,
I want to check out the output of our launch script.
To do that I need to login as the root
user using the “sudo” command like this:
"sudo su -l" and then press enter.
"whoami"; you can see that we are
logged in as the root user now.
Most system logs are located within the "var/log" directory,
and that's where AWS puts the output log for the script.
Under the hood AWS uses the cloud-init
system to run our launch script,
and correspondingly there is a log
file named "cloud-init-output.log".
Which, as the name implies, has the output of any
commands that we specified during the launch script.
We can use the cat command to display the contents
of the file directly into the terminal, like this:
"cat cloud-init-output.log", then press enter.
Now let's scroll back up to some familiar commands.
Well I can see, at this point,
the output of the Java 8 installation process,
which is then followed by the Maven install,
then Jenkins itself,
and finally Nginx.
Towards the end we even see the call to GitHub
to download the Nginx configuration file.
Now that we've done that, let's exit out of the root session
and then exit out of the main session,
which will return us back to the terminal on our local system.
Now that we have successfully connected to
our instance using the static IP address,
let's try the same thing but using the domain name instead.
I'm going to use the up arrow to
bring back the previous command,
so I can just edit that instead of re-typing the entire thing.
Now just replace the IP address
with the domain name, like this.
Press enter to connect.
Like before we should be prompted to confirm the fingerprint.
That's all I wanted to show, so let's exit out of the session.
Once back to our terminal on our local
system I want to create an SSH configuration
that automatically uses the private key for our Jenkins server.
To do that go into your ".ssh" folder with your home directory.
Once there use a text editor to create or open a config file.
I'll use nano, like this: "nano config", then press enter.
Alright, I need to jump over to another terminal session
to remind myself of the full name to the private key.
I'll copy that to our clipboard for now.
Once back over to Nano, we can start with a host directive
and the name of the host for this configuration, like this.
Of course specify your own Jenkins server domain name.
On the next line, and indented a bit,
use the "User" directive and the name "Ubuntu".
Finally, on the last line,
also indented, use the "IdentityFile"
directive, and the full path
to the private key file.
You should now have an SSH config
file that looks something like this.
With all the changes done save and close the file.
On Nano that would be "control+X", then "Y", and enter.
Let's try out the SSH configuration now.
Use the up arrow key to display the previous command,
and then remove the "-I" option and the key file path.
This should be a much shorter command.
Press enter to confirm everything works.
Once you have confirmed that you can login to the instance
like before exit out to return to your local system.
In this lesson we logged into our instance using SSH,
then we refined things a bit by configuring
SSH to automatically use our private key
when connecting to our instance using the full domain name.
At this point we still haven't attempted
to access Jenkins via the web browser;
we will do that in the next lesson.

--- Restart within Lightsail ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to stop, start,
and restart our Jenkins instance on AWS Lightsail.
While this might seem like a mundane thing to do,
stopping, starting, and restarting our instance
is something that is part of validating the
overall robustness of the Jenkins instance
and stopping the instance is actually needed in some cases.
Unlike normal AWS resources stopping a Lightsail
instance doesn't actually save you any money.
We will be warned about this when
we actually stop the instance.
If you need to save money, while you don't need the
instance, you need to delete the instance.
Of course that has its own issues, like if you have
a static IP address associated with the instance,
then you will be charged for the static
IP address while it remains unattached.
Just stopping an instance keeps the
static IP address associated with it.
However, if we did not have a static
IP address attached to the instance
then we would lose the dynamically allocated IP
address, since it would be released back to AWS.
Sometimes you just need to stop for instance.
One common reason for doing this is a complete
backup using the snapshotting feature.
We will cover that in the next lesson.
For now we just need to make sure that all our
services can weather the stop and start cycle.
I'm going to head over to my Jenkins server.
Right now I'm on the login page,
which happens when you're away a little too long.
That's fine; just reloading this page and getting the
page is enough to confirm Jenkins is up and running.
Returns the Lightsail interface for the Jenkins master instance
and then click the stop button to shut down the server.
AWS as will warn you that services
on the instance will be unavailable
while the instance is down and
that you will still incur charges.
If you are used to the normal AWS setup
the last part is a major distinction;
Between EC2 instances and Lightsail instances
Lightsail continues to charge for resources
used even if the instance is stopped.
Now let's continue forward by clicking on stop.
The dialog will disappear and the instance status will
change from running, to stopping, to finally stopped.
Of course now if we return to the
Jenkins Server web page and refresh
our web browser will eventually give us a connection error.
While we wait for the browser we can hop back over to
our Lightsail instance and check out the "Connect" tab.
The connecting using SSH should be disabled.
Okay, by now our browser should have
figured out Jenkins isn't responding.
Yep, I get this error page.
We have confirmed Jenkins is offline since
the underlying instance is turned off.
Now let's start the instance and make sure
everything comes back online automatically.
From the instance page in Lightsail click on the start button.
Now the instance status should go from stopped
to pending to eventually running again.
Give the instance a few moments
to get all its services running.
In this case we need at least two services
or daemons to be running: Jenkins and Nginx.
Now, if we refresh our web browser page,
we should be back to the Jenkins login page.
If this doesn't happen at first wait
a bit longer and then try again.
Occasionally we need to go through the stop
and start sequence as quickly as possible,
perhaps to troubleshoot a problem on the instance.
For that we can reboot the instance.
Like before Lightsail will warn
us about rebooting the instance.
Basically the obvious stuff; our
services will be temporarily unavailable.
During the reboot process we can hop
back over to the Jenkins login page
and refresh to see the error page
while the Jenkins server is down.
After a few moments Jenkins will be back,
and we can even see this transitional page presented
by Jenkins while it loads its configuration.
Once Jenkins is fully ready again
we will be back on the login page.
With that done, let's head back
over to the Lightsail instance page.
In this lesson we walked through stopping, starting,
and restarting our Jenkins instance in Lightsail.
Next we will backup our instance using snapshots.

--- Instance Snapshots ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to use
instance snapshots to backup our Jenkin server.
There are lots of ways to implement a
backup strategy for our Jenkins server.
AWS Lightsail provides one with a simple mouse
click using an instance feature called snapshots.
Let's do that now.
From the instance page click on the "Snapshots" tab.
Before we create our first snapshot,
I will warn you that this isn't free.
It's not expensive either, and AWS will optimize for costs
by only charging you the differences between the snapshots.
For example the first snapshot will take
the full 20 gigabytes of the drive space,
but if we do another snapshot tomorrow
and only two gigabytes changed
we will only get charged for the two
additional gigabytes of difference.
We won't be keeping the snapshot long enough
to incur much cost, so follow along if you can.
We can name our snapshots; you might
want to give a meaningful name.
if you are backing up before a
major update or significant changes.
However they don't matter that much if
snapshots are done on a regular basis.
Alright, before I create the snapshot I want to get the
cleanest possible backup, so I will stop the instance first.
Click on the stop button and then wait for our
instance to be fully stopped before proceeding
Now that the Jenkins server instance is fully stopped
click on the "Create snapshot" button
to start the snapshotting process.
Since we are creating a copy of the 20
gigabytes of data this will take a few minutes.
Once the snapshot is complete we can see it listed
below with the date and time it was created.
We can expand out the details,
which shows us the 20 gigabytes on the system disk.
The three vertical dots to the side provides us some options,
really just to create an instance and to delete the snapshot.
Well, since the snapshot is done we can
start our instance back again; click Start.
After a few moments we can confirm our instance is
running, and Jenkins is available again.
After that, return to the instance page.
In this lesson we backed up our Jenkins server using snapshots.
In the next lesson we will use the
snapshot to create a new Jenkins instance
to perform an update and then flip our static
IP address to the new Jenkins instance.

--- Instance Flip ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to create a new Jenkins
server instance based on the snapshot we just created.
Then we will perform a system upgrade
and, provided that was successful,
we will change over to the new Jenkins server.
All this is a common production rollout
pattern called zero downtime deployment.
In a previous lesson we made a backup of our
current Jenkins server by creating a snapshot.
A really useful thing we can do with snapshots is to
create an entirely new instance based on that snapshot.
This opens up some interesting possibilities.
We could use this ability to restore from
a known good previous instance state.
We could also try out changes without
impacting the active instance,
basically creating a sandbox or impromptu development server.
We could also apply the changes to a new copy of the instance,
once we are happy with it flip over to
make the new instance the active one.
This pattern is known as zero downtime deployment,
where we test in parallel our new production server
and simply flip over from the old server to the new
server quickly so it appears transparent to the end users.
From everyone else's perspective the deployment
or update incurred very little to no downtime.
That's what I'll show here.
To be fair, on a really active system
you'll want to develop a strategy
for dealing with any changes that happen on the active
server while performing the update on the new system.
From the snapshots tab on the instance page click on the
vertical three dots next to our snapshot we just created.
One option is to "Create new instance", click on that option.
That takes us to the "Create an instance from a snapshot" page.
This is a variation of the "Create
an instance" page we used earlier.
I really don't want to change any details right now;
I want to perform an operating system upgrade,
which is something that can't be scripted.
Leave all the defaults.
The instance should select the key pair we created earlier.
I want to use the same hosting plan too.
We just need to change the instance
name; I'll use Jenkins-Master-2.
Great, now click on create to create
our new instance based on the snapshot.
We should land back on the instances page
with the current instance active and running,
and the new instance grayed out while it is pending.
After a few moments the new instance will be available.
You'll notice that our new instance is given a
public IP address automatically and dynamically.
As mentioned before we will lose that address if we
decided to stop and start or restart at the instance.
However the IP address will be ours
as long as the instance is running.
We can use the IP address of the new instance
to access Jenkins running on that instance.
Let's copy that address into the clipboard.
I want to demonstrate that we have two separate
Jenkins servers running, each on their own instance.
For that I'm going to log in to the existing
one using the domain name we set up earlier.
This is mapped to our static IP address
that points to the original Jenkins server.
After logging in we should be on
the familiar Jenkins dashboard.
We have a single job, which we set up to
confirm our system is set up correctly.
Now, in a new browser tab, paste in the
IP address copied from the new instance.
Pressing enter brings us to the Jenkins login page.
Well, it could just be a new browser session,
so let's make sure we are actually on a new server.
Log in to Jenkins.
And, once on the dashboard, create a new freestyle job.
Let's name this "test-python".
I'm curious if Python got installed on the server;
we never explicitly installed Python,
but sometimes this might get installed as a dependency.
Once on the configure page create an execute shell
build step that simply asks Python for its version.
In the command box type "python --version".
Now save the job configuration,
which takes us to the project's status page.
Once there click "Build Now".
In this case we get a failed build.
That's OK; we weren't sure if Python
was installed and now we know,
which is confirmed both by the red ball and the console
output showing us that the python was not found.
The main thing was to simply create some
differences between the Jenkins servers.
Returning to the Jenkins dashboard we can now
jump back and forth between the Jenkins servers,
even refreshing the pages on each of them to make
sure, indeed, we are on different servers.
AWS Lightsail offers the Ubuntu LTS
server, but it is a little behind.
However, it is entirely possible that Lightsail
will support the current LTS in the near future,
which could be by the time you are watching this.
Because of that I'm not going to
get too caught up on the details;
if there is nothing to update it is likely you can
still update your packages and follow the same process.
At the very least you can use this
approach to update Jenkins itself.
After all you shouldn't just upgrade in place a live
production server if you can possibly avoid doing so.
Anyway, let's continue with making the new Jenkins
server run the latest LTS release of Ubuntu.
To get started we need to use the IP address
of our new instance to log in via SSH
on our terminal or Git bash on Windows.
This will be very similar to the
SSH command earlier in this section.
Let's start with "ssh ubuntu@",
and then paste in the IP address of our new instance.
Since this is going to be a new system
we need to specify the "-I" option
and the SSH private key we created
near the start of this section.
You should end up with a command
that looks something like this.
Now press enter to attempt the login.
Like before you need to accept the server fingerprint.
Great, we should be logged in to the new instance.
At least on my screen you'll notice Ubuntu
telling me there is a new release available.
If this isn't the case for you, you should at
least have some packages that need to be updated.
In either case you'll need to log
in as the root user: "sudo su -l" .
Once as root I'm going to run the
"do-release-upgrade" as mentioned above.
If you only have packages to upgrade then
issue the following commands instead:
"apt-get -update -y", then "apt-get upgrade -y".
Okay, assume you are following along, or just watching,
when prompted I'm going to press enter to continue.
While the system downloads a bunch of dependencies
I'm going to make a firewall rule change as recommended,
just in case I need to log in to the alternative SSH session.
Hopefully that won't be needed.
Once on the instance page go to networking, then under
firewall click on add another to the add another rule.
Leave it as "Custom", "TCP", and specify the port "1022".
We can remove it later if we end up not needing it.
Now save our changes to the firewall rules table.
With that done let's head back over to
our terminal and see how things are going.
Looks like we're making a bit of progress now.
I'll speed things up a bit so we can keep moving.
You'll need to keep an eye on the process
since additional input might be required.
In my case I have to make some decisions on
how to treat existing configuration files.
Now, towards the end, I want to delete the old packages.
And finally I'm prompted to restart the
system, which I will do.
Of course that will break our connection.
Let's wait a few moments before attempting to login again.
Now login like before.
This time you should be welcomed to the latest
LTS and there should be no upgrade notices.
Let's return to the web browser tab with
the Jenkins server for our new instance.
Login to Jenkins, we just need to make sure everything works.
Let's make a quick fix to our test Python Job.
Back on the terminal, while logged into
Ubuntu, use the "which" command to find Python.
Normal Python doesn't exist, let's check for Python 3.
It turns out that Python is available.
Using that knowledge, head back over to our new
Jenkins server and configure the "test-python" Job.
Update the build step with the
following commands "which python3".
The on next line "/usr/bin/env python3 --version".
Then a third line "python3 --vresion".
Now let's save this configuration and run it.
Looks like this time we get a successful build.
In either case we see we have two different
servers with different content on each.
However, our domain name and static IP address
are pointing to the old Jenkins server.
Let's flip that over now.
Back on the instance page let's return to
the Lightsail home, then click on networking.
Right now we should have one static IP address which
is currently associated with the old Jenkin server.
We can click into the static IP address to get more details.
From here we can detach the static
IP address from the current instance.
You'll be given a warning that any static IP address not
associated with an instance is charged a small per hour fee.
However the first hour is free, which allows us enough
time to switch where to point the static IP address.
Now select the new Jenkins server instance and click attach.
Once complete you'll notice that, when we attach
the static IP address to the new Jenkins server,
the old server got assigned a new public IP address
We can use the same approach as before,
using the IP address to login to Jenkins.
Let's try out this flip by accessing Jenkins
using the domain name we set up earlier.
If everything went well we should be back on Jenkins
Now we should have the Jenkins dashboard open on both servers.
Now that we have completed the flip you can close the
extra browser tabs and return to the Lightsail page.
In this lesson we use the snapshot we created
earlier to create a new Jenkins server,
in order to upgrade the operating system.
And then using the static IP address configuration
to flip between the old and new servers
once the upgrade was done and validated
In the next lesson we were going to
take a step back and clean up a bit.

--- Clean Up ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we are going to clean up a bit.
Now that we have two Jenkins servers and we
have flipped from the old server to the new one,
let's get rid of the resources we no longer need.
After all, that would just cost us extra money.
In reality we could keep it if we thought
we might need to restore it at some point,
which might be a good idea in a real production environment.
At least give yourself a few weeks on the
new system before removing the backup.
At that time we could restore from the snapshot
by basically doing the same thing, but in reverse.
Or we could simply keep the other instance available for
an even quicker switchback, or some combination of both.
However, for now, let's remove those resources we don't need.
I'm starting out on the instances tab within Lightsail.
Let's start off by deleting the snapshot.
Go to the "Snapshots" tab, expand out the snapshot details,
and then click on the vertical three
dots and choose "Delete snapshot".
You'll be prompted to confirm you really do want
to delete the snapshot. Click yes to continue.
After a few moments the snapshot will be gone, and you
will no longer be charged for the space it was taking up.
Now, with the snapshot gone,
let's head back over to the instances tab.
Here we have two instances and we have named them so
it's pretty easy to tell which one is more recent.
"Jenkins-Master-1" is the original instance
and that's the one we no longer need.
Click on the vertical three dots
for that instance and choose Delete.
Like we've seen when you're about to do something
destructive or without recovery, we are prompted by AWS.
Of course, choose the yes option to continue and
after a few moments our original instance is gone.
If you want to double check to make
sure we got rid of the correct instance
we can jump back over to our Jenkins server in
our web browser and refresh the page to make sure.
Thankfully Jenkins still works.
Let's jump back over to our instance tab in Lightsail.
We are only charged for the portion of the month we had the
instance going, billed by the hour until the monthly cap.
In this lesson we did a bit of cleanup by deleting
the snapshot and the old instance we no longer need.
In the next lesson we are going to get legit by enabling
SSL so we can be secure while working within Jenkins.

--- Update HostKey ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we will update our
host key fingerprint for the new Jenkins master
so we can continue to log in to the instance via SSH.
We need to update our SSH Host key fingerprint
while connecting to our new Jenkins server.
Every time we replace the underlying server
instance the host key fingerprint will change
and since SSH cares about that part
of that keeping you secure thingy
we need to tell our local SSH
configuration about the new fingerprints.
Return to your terminal, or Git bash on Windows,
and attempt to connect to the Jenkins
server using the domain name we have setup
"ssh ubuntu@", and then the Jenkins server domain name.
When I attempt to connect the connection is
refused because SSH detects the wrong fingerprint
for the server it’s trying to connect with.
This check, or verification,
is an important part of the
connection process and helps prevent
the man-in-the-middle attack.
Basically if SSH doesn't trust the fingerprint
signature of the target's system then SSH assumes
there is a problem or a hack attempt and aborts the connection.
This is a good thing.
First, let's remove the old fingerprint
by using the following command:
"ssh-keygen -R", and then your Jenkins server domain name.
The "ssh-keygen" program should be able to find
the entry and remove it from our known hosts file.
Of course, you could also remove that
entry manually if you really wanted.
Now let's re-attempt: "ssh ubuntu@"
the Jenkins server domain name.
Since our known hosts file no longer has that entry
we will be prompted to confirm if we want to add
the new server fingerprint to our SSH configuration.
Of course type yes to continue.
Now, this time, we are successful and the
SSH host key has been updated in the process.
Since we're done for now exit out of the SSH
session with our Jenkins master instance,
which returns us back to our local system in terminal.
In this lesson we updated the host key fingerprint needed
to connect via SSH to our new Jenkins master instance.
In the next lesson we will get legit by enabling SSL
so we can be more secure while working within Jenkins.

--- Web Secured, Part 1 ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to begin the process to
encrypt our web traffic to our Jenkins server by enabling SSL.
So far we have been accessing our Jenkins
server by using the standard HTTPS port of 80.
Even to go that far we had to use Nginx
to hide the Jenkins default port of 8080.
Because of that every time we logged into
Jenkins we have done so in the clear,
that is anyone sniffing traffic between us and our
server anywhere online could see the username password
and any other sensitive information.
Of course, this is bad.
When Jenkins was on our local system we
really didn't have to care about this,
nor is this a huge issue within the
confines of a corporate network,
provided your company is small enough
that you trust everyone that works there.
These days that's not a safe bet, especially if you
hire outside consultants or temporary employees.
But any server exposed to the open internet needs to be
locked down, including securing all traffic through it.
Great, so we need to secure the web traffic.
What are our options?
Well we could use the AWS Lightsail
approach, which I considered.
With Lightsail you can use a load balancer to attach a
certificate that would be used to encrypt the traffic.
This is the only supported way to
encrypt traffic to your instance.
You can't attach certificates
directly to the instance, and
there's no way to associate that
to the static IP address either.
The load balancer is the only way, which is not a huge deal.
With Jenkins not only do we not need the load balancer
for its original designed purpose of balancing traffic
between multiple copies of an instance but
Jenkins is actually unable to work in that way,
since the Jenkins configuration, build information, etc.
are all stored on the Jenkins server, making it stateful.
Let's not go into that too much right now;
basically Jenkins is just not well suited for high
availability configuration, like load balancers.
However we could still use the load balancer
and only have one instance serviced by it,
then we could attach the Amazon managed certificate
to the load balancer thus securing Jenkins.
While all certificates managed by AWS are
free, the load balancer is not.
And, oddly enough, it's not cheap either, at least to me.
As of the recording of this course the load
balancer costs eighteen dollars per month.
Considering that's several times the
cost of the instance we're using,
and we're not even using the load
balancing aspect of the functionality.
If I could use the load balancing and I had a small army
of Jenkins servers behind it it wouldn't be a big deal.
The SSL certificate would be a total bonus.
However, since I can only use the load
balancer to host the SSL certificate,
then effectively I would be paying 18 dollars per month,
or over two hundred dollars a year, for the certificate.
I can get an SSL certificate for way less, in fact free.
We'll get to that in a moment.
Since I'm not using an Amazon supplied method of associating a
certificate to the instance we'll need to use Nginx for that.
That's actually another reason for
having Nginx in front of Jenkins;
It's a lot easier to add HTTPS support to Nginx than Jenkins.
Before we jump into securing the Jenkins server,
I want to use the production flip approach we
did earlier when we updated the operating system.
This will allow us to quickly recover if something goes wrong.
We will start by creating a snapshot of our Jenkins server
instance, following the same basic steps we had before.
Drill into the instance page for Jenkins-Master-2,
go to the snapshots tab and create the snapshot.
While we wait for our snapshot to complete let's learn
about SSL certificates, since this could take a while.
In order to secure website traffic you need to enable HTTPS,
which is the secure version of the HTTP protocol
that runs on port 443 instead of port 80.
HTTPS requires a valid certificate that has been issued by one
of the certificate authorities respected by your web browser.
In fact, most companies selling certificates are really just
re-selling them from a supported Certificate Authority or CA..
There's really nothing shady about it, most companies
will tell you which CA a certificate is associated.
Certificates can have many attributes,
the most important one is the type of certificate.
Right now the most secure is TLS.
After that how the certificate was validated is also a
consideration, although a distant second in my opinion.
In the certificate issuing world there are three
flavors of certificates: domain verified or DV,
organization verified or OV, and extended verified or EV.
Domain verified are easier to get and can be automated,
since the requester only has to prove they
own or control the domain being secured
Since the certificate issued can be automated they are
generally a lot less expensive, and in some case even free.
Some certificate issuing
companies may claim these domain
validated certificates are somehow less
secure, but they aren't.
They use the same encryption
technology as any other certificate.
The main difference is that organization
verified certificates feel more secure
because the certificate issuing company has validated the
business or company seems legit before issuing certificate,
or at least that's what their marketing material says.
Very few certificate issuing companies will refuse to sell
you a domain validated certificate if that's what you want.
Just saying, if they weren't any good no legitimate company
would sell them and all major web browsers would reject them.
Of course, this isn't the case.
Organization verified certificates can only validate
that a business or organization is legally set up.
Of course, there are plenty of bad
companies that are legally set up.
Because of that some certificate issuing companies have an
additional offering they call extended verify certificates,
where they promise to do some research to make sure that a
business is in good standing before issuing the certificate.
The bottom line is there is no technical
difference between the certificates,
the only difference is around the
perceived trust and nothing more.
In fact the vast majority of users
don't even check the certificate.
They might look to see if the golden padlock
is in place or not, but even that much is rare.
I've never seen a web browser warn its users
that certificate is only domain verified.
I highly recommend any web site or service
be secured by any type of certificate,
especially if you are passing sensitive
information around, like logging credentials.
There is a project called Let's Encrypt that
offers domain validated SSL certificates for free.
There are a few things to know. First these
certificates can only be issued for 90 days at a time,
and they encourage renewal every 60 days.
The project says this is to encourage automation
while still providing a long enough window
for those that need to manually renew.
They also claim it's a shorter window if
something bad happens to the certificate.
As mentioned before the certificates issued our
domain validated, so if your security engineer
doesn't share the same high opinion of them as I
do then you might have a political battle to fight.
However, since this process can be automated and it's free
it can be done now instead of waiting days
or weeks for any other type of certificate.
When we created a duplicate Jenkins server to illustrate how
to flip using a static IP address to point to a new instance
we could have provided another launch script, but we didn't.
In this case we need to.
I have a script that will automate the making
of a few updates to our Nginx configuration
to get ready for the Let's Encrypt process.
We will still need to do a few manual steps
afterwards, but this will get us most of the way there.
Let's return to the Jenkins Bootcamp course
repository that we have used previously.
Once there go into the Lightsail folder.
Click into the "jenkins-secure.sh" file.
That will be the launch script for the new instance.
Once the file opens it starts like all bash
scripts, with the leading shebang.
After that I want to stop the Nginx service,
since we will be changing its configuration.
Then create a Jenkins directory for serving static content,
which will be required by the Let's Encrypt process.
After that, if the previous configuration is present delete it.
We will replace it with a new configuration
file, which we will cover soon.
That configuration file is downloaded from GitHub
and placed in the available sites folder for Nginx.
Then a symbolic link is established between the new
configuration file and the "sites-enabled" folder,
which is how Nginx knows which configuration to load or not.
After verifying the configuration for Nginx is
acceptable, I will start the Nginx service again.
With the updates to Nginx out of the way, the rest of the
script updates our system with a new program called certbot
that helps us automate the creation and retrieval
of certificates from the Let's Encrypt service.
At the very end I provide a commented outline of the command
we will need to use to generate our first certificate.
Of course, when we actually run the command
you will need to provide your own domain name.
Now, let's back up a bit and look
at the "jenkins-secured.conf" file.
That will be our new Nginx configuration file.
This file is much more involved than our previous configuration
file, although the top is similar to what we have now,
except I added a few new tweaks, like log file location
and an alias for anything in a ".well-known" folder,
that's the part needed for Let's Encrypt.
Beyond that it should be about the same.
The biggest difference is in the additional server block.
The top block only listens for port 80, the bottom
server block listens only on 443, and has SSL turned on.
I specify the server name directive since
that is required by the certificate.
I also have several SSL oriented settings.
Some are commented out until we run certbot to fetch the
cert, and the other settings are benign.
Okay, by now the snapshot should be complete.
From the snapshots tab let's create a new instance
much in the same way we did in a previous lesson.
Click on the vertical dots, and select "Create new instance".
Once on the "Create an instance from a snapshot" page
hop back over to our GitHub
repository, go into the
"secure-jenkins.sh" file and copy
its contents to the clipboard.
Then return to Lightsail, expand out the launch script link
into a text box for our code. Paste in the script contents.
Everything else should be the same, except I would
like to provide the name. I'll use "Jenkins-Master-3".
Great. Now click "Create" to create our new instance.
That'll take us back to the instances page, where we can
see our new instance progressing from pending to running
Normally I would like to wait until everything
is completely updated on a new server
before flipping the static IP address over.
However, the domain verification process
used by Let's Encrypt needs to see
that I'm serving content from the
domain I'm attempting to secure.
Once our new instance is running click on the networking tab.
Go into the static IP address configuration.
Now detach from the current instance, select the new
instance, and attach the static IP address there.
At this point our domain name will
be pointing to the new instance.
Now we need to allow for a HTTPS traffic to the new instance.
Return to the instances tab and then go into
the details for the Jenkins-Master-3 instance.
Go to the networking tab there and
add a new rule for the firewall.
Select HTTPS, which should fill
in the other values. Click save.
Now we can accept HTTPS traffic to our instance.
In this lesson we started adding the SSL and a
HTTPS support to our Jenkins server via Nginx
using an awesome free service called Let's Encrypt
In the next lesson we will finish that process and test it out.

--- Web Secured, Part 2 ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to finish the process to
encrypt our web traffic to our Jenkins server by enabling SSL.
We need to login to our new instance via SSH.
Let's remove any previous known host entries using
"ssh-keygen -R", then the domain name for Jenkins.
Once done we can now connect using SSH using the
Jenkins domain name like we've done in previous lessons.
Of course, we will be prompted to accept the new fingerprint.
Once logged in I need to assume root: "sudo su -l".
Now let's check on the Jenkins folder for
Nginx; I just want to make sure it got created.
Nginx is configured to look for web content in "/var/www":
"cd /var/www".
Now let's look at the files and folders here, "ll".
Great, looks like that Jenkins folder was created.
Now let's move to the Nginx sites available
configuration folder: "cd /etc/nginx/sites-available".
List the files here, "ll".
We have our secured "conf" file in place.
Now this configuration has my domain name,
you will need to update the configuration file and change the
server name using something like nano, then restart Nginx.
Now, let's try accessing our Jenkins server.
Jump back over to the Jenkins server
web browser tab and refresh the page.
Right now I'm still getting the Jenkins login page, which is
fine; I just need to validate stuff works just like before.
No loss in functionality so far.
Now let's try going secure.
Update the URL to change from HTTP to
HTTPS, leaving everything else the same.
Hopefully your browser should reject the attempt.
That's because we haven't setup SSL
correctly yet. Let's do that now.
Return to the GitHub page and the
script file we were looking at before.
Go to the very last line.
There should be a commented line
that is the command we need to use.
Copy that line, except for the leading hash mark.
Now return to the terminal.
Paste in that line, and you will need to update the last
part; that's where I specify my domain that I'm securing.
You need to replace it with your own
domain that you're using with Jenkins.
This command runs the certbot program
installed during the launch script.
While running certbot you will need to provide
an email address and answer a few questions.
After all that the certbot program will attempt to register
and download a certificate that can be used with Nginx.
Thankfully I got a good response back,
which certbot tells me about with additional details.
If, for some reason, certbot fails to get a certificate for you
read any messages, fix the issue, and run the command again.
You might need to do a bit of online
research if the solution isn't obvious.
Based on the output I know certbot put my certificates
in a special folder under "/etc/letsencrypt/live".
Make note of any differences for your domain and
we will be updating the Nginx configuration next.
We should still be in the "sites-available" folder.
Let's stop Nginx first: "systemctl stop nginx.service".
Now let's open the configuration file
with an editor: "nano jenkins-secure.conf"
Now I'm going down to the place where the SSL
certificates are commented out, and uncomment them.
Additionally you need to make sure the path is correct.
Use the path given to you by certbot.
Of course, make sure the server name also
reflects your domain name instead of mine.
Great with all the changes done save and exit
nano: "control+X", then "Y", then press enter.
Now that we have updated our configuration
let's validate our configuration: "nginx -t".
If everything's good then let's start up
Nginx: "systemctl start nginx.service".
Once Nginx is running again return to the Jenkins server
browser tab and refresh to see if we get a login page.
If everything we did was successful you should
see something like this, and it should be secured.
Let's check out the certificate information now.
We see, at least on Chrome, a padlock,
the word secure, and the HTTPS protocol scheme,
all indicating we are on a secure connection.
In Chrome we can actually click on the secure word to
expand out information about the site and the certificate.
Chrome reiterates the connection is secure and we
can click on the certificate, which shows as valid.
Once the certificate dialog shows up we can
expand out the details and review its contents.
There is a lot of technical stuff here but the important parts
are related to the domain name the certificate is valid for,
who it was issued from, Let's Encrypt, and when it
was issued and the fact that the certificate is valid.
Great now let's log into Jenkins knowing our
credentials are safely encrypted in transit.
Take a few moments to bounce around while secured.
At no point should you bounce between secured and
unsecured; once secured you should remain secured.
Now that we have successfully secured our Jenkins server
let's remove the resources we no longer need from Lightsail.
Return to the Lightsail interface
and go into the snapshots tab.
Delete the snapshot.
Once that's done, return to the instances tab
and delete the "Jenkins-Master-2" instance.
Just before I go I want to show something I needed to correct.
When I first set up the Nginx configuration
it didn't work completely as I needed;
it kept bouncing between secured and non-secured pages.
I fixed that in the final version of the
configuration file, which you are using.
However the video featuring the
configuration files show an older version.
I'll open that up now,
the final version directly on the instance.
I just had to add a few headers to ensure the connection
remained on the secure protocol, and that's about it.
In this lesson we finished adding SSL
and HTTPS support to our Jenkin server
via Nginx using the awesome free service called Let's Encrypt.
In the next lesson we will update Jenkins,
both the core version and several plugins.

--- Update Jenkins ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to update both the
core Jenkins server and several plugins installed onto it.
Yes, I have covered updating Jenkins and plugins before
but I wanted to cover how to do so on
Lightsail with the Ubuntu based server.
First, let's login to AWS and then Lightsail.
For this process I want to do an in-place update, that is I'm
not going to create a duplicate server and switch over to it.
However, I still want to create a backup just in
case I need to restore from it. Let's do that now.
Before we create a snapshot let's stop the
instance and make sure we get a clean backup.
Then, like we've done before, go to the snapshots
tab within the instance page and create a snapshot.
Like normal, this will take a while.
After the snapshot is complete start our instance back again.
Once the Jenkins instance is available
head back to the Jenkins server browser tab
and refresh the page to make sure Jenkins comes up
If you need to, log in to Jenkins.
Once on the dashboard you might,
from time to time, see notices in a red block.
We can expand this out, and it tells us about some warnings.
In particular I'm being told
that Jenkins has an available
update and the version I'm on has
some security vulnerabilities.
If you're going through this course and section fairly
quickly then it's likely you won't have this warning,
or you won't have a need to upgrade at all.
However, if you run Jenkins long enough you
will eventually encounter something like this.
For now you can just sit back and watch this
lesson and make some notes on the important points.
Now, if I go to the Manage Jenkins page,
I see some banners that basically give me the same information.
from the warning indicator on the dashboard.
Also, if we scroll down a bit I see there
are some plugins that need to be updated.
Well, the version of Jenkins that is newer is only a patch
version, which are normally less risky than major LTS updates.
And the plugins look about the same: not
a lot to update and fairly minor ones too.
Let's deal with the Jenkins core first, since sometimes
that influences any plugin updates that are required.
Let's head over to the terminal and
log into our Jenkins server instance.
You might need to reset the server
fingerprint if you haven't already.
Once logged in assume the root user: "sudo su -l".
At least for me, when I updated the Ubuntu system the upgrade
process disabled the Jenkins repository configuration.
I need to first re-enable it before the package
manager will install or upgrade Jenkins.
First let's go into the main apt
configuration location: "cd /etc/apt".
Then go into the "sources.list.d" directory.
Here we have several "list" files for Jenkins.
Most of them were certainly put here by the Ubuntu
upgrade process we ran earlier in this section.
If I attempt to upgrade Jenkins like this,
apt won't see the new version of Jenkins.
First, I want to remove the unwanted
versions of the Jenkins list file:
"rm jenkins.list.save" and then "rm jenkins.list.distUpgrade"
Now let's edit the "jenkins.list" file: "nano jenkins.list".
Yep I can see the upgrade process disabled
this file for the duration of the upgrade.
Let’s uncomment the start of the file like this and
then I'm going to remove the end comment as well.
Once done save and close the file:
"control+X", Y, and then enter.
OK, while it really doesn't matter much I'm
going to go to the root's home directory,
and then we can refresh the app
repositories "apt-get update -y".
While I could upgrade all the packages that need updating
at the system level I really want to focus on Jenkins.
Before we do that we should really
stop Jenkins: "systemctl stop jenkins".
Now we can update the specific package
like this: "apt-get install jenkins"
Apt should detect we already have a version of Jenkins
installed and we just need an update on top of it.
Once Jenkins is upgraded we can start it
back again: "systemctl start jenkins".
We can also check the status: "systemctl status jenkins"
Once Jenkins is up and running again
we can jump back over to our browser
and refresh the page to ensure the Jenkins server is alive.
After the refresh the version number displayed at the bottom
of each page should be updated to reflect the new version.
Now that we have updated Jenkins,
we can focus on updating the plugins.
Go to the Manage Jenkins page and then to manage plugins.
As mentioned before we know a few plugins need to be updated.
None of them look like major updates,
so I'm fine taking care of them right now.
However, before we update the plugins let's make
sure we have the latest information available.
I'm going to click on check now
and wait for the page to refresh.
In all likelihood there won't be anything
new that pops up, but I like to make sure.
Great, now click on the "All" link to select all the plugins
for updating and click on the button to download now.
That will download all the plugins that need updating
and then allow us to restart the Jenkins
server for the updates to be applied.
Now that all the plugins are done updating,
most with a status that will be activated upon boot,
let's restart Jenkins by clicking on the box at the bottom.
Jenkins should restart now.
After doing so you might land back on the same update
page, the Jenkins dashboard, or the login page.
Either way, after the update, return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Now let's return to the plugin management page
and make sure there are no pending updates.
After that, return back to the Jenkins dashboard.
We have completed updating Jenkins in place.
Since this update was successful I don't need
the snapshot any longer, so let's clean that up.
Return to the Lightsail browser tab and, while on the instance
page, go to the snapshots tab then delete the snapshot.
In this lesson we performed an in-place
upgrade of Jenkins and related plugins.
In the next lesson we're going to look at
our options for going beyond Lightsail.

--- Beyond Lightsail ---

Welcome, in this lesson, we're going to discuss ways
to grow within Lightsail and perhaps even beyond.
So far, we have been using Lightsail like a
virtual private server or VPS hosting provider
just built on top of the AWS resources.
And, for the most part, that's exactly what it is.
Using Lightsail provides us an easy onboarding
into the world of Amazon Web Services or AWS.
Since Lightsail is implemented using AWS resources
you get gracefully introduced to AWS concepts.
At no point are you required to know how stuff works, but you
can often customize instances or change where they're deployed.
After that, without having to deal with the
complexity that normally comes with all that is AWS.
Also, AWS seems to be improving
Lightsail by introducing new services.
For example Amazon recently introduced database services
all at the same level of simplicity and
constant pricing as the rest of Lightsail.
However Lightsail is somewhat limited; you
often give up power an option for simplicity.
If Lightsail fulfills your needs,
that's a tradeoff worth considering.
Even so, you can still start in Lightsail and then
connect to standard AWS resources using VPC peering.
That feature allows a special link between
Lightsail and the default VPC in your AWS account.
VPC stands for virtual private cloud and it's really just
a way to group related to the AWS resources together.
While your account can have multiple VPCs all AWS accounts
recently set up come with at least one default VPC.
Lightsail really is another VPC, but all those details are
hidden from you since AWS fully manages all those resources.
The main point is that you can configure Lightsail to
link to your default VPC in the standard AWS account
so you can use other AWS resources like other instances,
Docker orchestration, or database managed outside Lightsail.
Even remaining inside Lightsail
there are still additional steps we might want to do before
we would consider our Jenkins master ready for production use.
First, I noticed that I occasionally run into an Nginx
proxy error with a 502 error page or even a 504 error page.
While it initially looked like the smallest
Lightsail instance was going to work,
it actually is just a bit too small for any real world use.
You'll need to consider enlarging
the Jenkins server and possibly
using build nodes to distribute
the workload of any builds.
I'll cover that in the next section.
Next, while Amazon does a pretty good job of
providing a secure environment to setup our server
there are still hardening steps that we
need to do at the operating system level.
There are a handful of automation tasks that
should be set up for long term use on the instance.
For example you need to set up a cron job to automatically
renew the Let's Encrypt SSL certificate every 60 days.
You could also look at automatic nightly
or at least weekly snapshot backups.
With those considerations taken into account
I think this would be a pretty good starting
point for a production ready Jenkins build server.
At some point you might outgrow what Lightsail can offer.
As discussed, you can use VPC peering
to leverage standard AWS resources
but you might decide to keep
everything together in one spot in AWS.
At that point you could still use the concepts we
have learned about in Lightsail and apply them in AWS.
We can even use the launch scripts we developed
as starting points for new EC2 instances in AWS,
or as the basis for a configuration as code tool like
Chef, Puppet, Ansible, or SaltStack.
You can think of infrastructure in the
cloud as an iterative development workflow.
We start out manually setting things
up to see what works and what doesn't,
then we use simple scripts to automate instance setup.
Ultimately you'll want to research something like Cloud
Formation or Terraform to represent infrastructure as code,
even bringing it back into Jenkins.
We could literally build Jenkins with Jenkins.
In this lesson we reviewed what's possible within
Amazon Lightsail and how to grow beyond it.

--- Scaling Jenkins in AWS Lightsail Overview ---

Welcome, in this section we will start off
with some basic concepts around scaling,
which for the most part is the rest of this lesson.
Then we will look at scaling up by moving to a larger instance,
and then testing out the results.
Finally the rest of this section is dedicated to scaling out
by adding more instances to provide a distributed build system.
At some point you will reach the limit of what you can do on your Jenkins server.
In fact, preparing for this course I realized
the free tier instance wasn't going to work very well.
I'll show you what I encountered in an upcoming lesson.
But, the point is I found myself needing to scale Jenkins almost immediately.
These limitations are fairly common issues
most web applications of all kind have to face eventually,
that is if they're successful or well used.
If we don't scale our infrastructure, we will experience unacceptable performance
perhaps only during peak usage times.
At some point Jenkins might even become unresponsive and start crashing.
So, what are the options?
Like most applications you can either scale up
by replacing the existing hardware with larger faster or better systems,
or you can scale out by adding more hardware and distributing the load across multiple systems.
And even a combination of both approaches: up and out.
Probably the easiest to understand is scaling up;
just buy bigger hardware, which could be physical or virtual.
Since we have started using AWS this means larger instances.
Of course, there are limits to this approach.
First, you have to consider the Jenkins server,
any web proxies on top of it and any resources needed
to efficiently execute any builds.
The more concurrent builds you expect the larger the instance required,
which is an increased cost, perhaps by a significant amount.
Another approach to scaling is by adding more hardware to the problem,
or, in our case, more instances.
In doing so we will separate out the web proxy, Jenkins master,
and any processes needed to execute builds on their own instances.
Currently Jenkins doesn't really support the idea of having multiple masters load balanced
since the file system is the Jenkins database,
however Jenkins does support the idea of build agents or slave systems.
This is commonly known as the master-slave architecture.
The Jenkins master can have one or many instances
or systems simply available to run build jobs.
Jenkins uses SSH or another connection protocol
to utilize computer power on slave machine instances.
When Jenkins first establishes a connection with a slave
Jenkins sends over an agent program,
which is used by Jenkins for managing the builds and querying any resource availability.
Like several things in Jenkins, there are multiple terms associated with the master slave relationship;
Jenkins sometimes refers to these slave systems as build nodes.
The Jenkins slave or build node is a physical or virtual hardware
and the Jenkins agent is a little program that runs on the slave
to help orchestrate the builds upon the slave or build node
If needed you could also use a combination of scaling up and out by using more larger instances.
At some point you might reach the limits of both scaling up and scaling out
Then what?
That's where multi-master build farms come into play.
There is nothing to say that you must run everything on a single Jenkins master.
Even with the biggest, fastest hardware eventually you might need more.
You can always accomplish this by either dividing up Jenkins masters
by functionality, that is builds, tests, and deploys
or by team, company division, or application group, or segmentation.
One major benefit of doing this is that changes on one Jenkins master
won't affect other teams or projects.
But that approach also has the most ongoing support cost,
since you have to increase the number of Jenkins masters, slaves, and other resources
that go along into the greater build platform.
So far I have attempted to keep costs down, perhaps even free, where possible.
Well, it's hard to scale if you aren't willing to spend any money.
So if you aren't able or willing to spend some money trying out AWS
then just sit back and watch the lessons and take notes.
Also, depending on how your AWS account is
you might need to ask AWS is for increased resource limits.
Let's take a moment and see how to request an increase to the limits.
I'm starting off in my Amazon light sail account,
and I'm currently walking through creating more instances for an upcoming lesson
while I am creating a new instance I encountered an error because I already have two instances.
While that seems low, I double checked the documentation on AWS resource limits.
All accounts have limits to prevent out of control resource allocation and crazy high bills as a result,
but two instances seems a bit low.
According to the documentation accounts should start off with 20 instances per region.
That's also the normal EC2 instance limit as well,
so it seems logical they would be the same.
It turns out that based on several factors, like account age and number of successful billing cycles
your actual limits may be less than what's documented.
Unfortunately, this fact, and the various factors, aren't well documented
so keep that in mind if you just signed up for an account .
Anyway, to request the limit increase go to the account dropdown
and then select "customer support".
Once there, click on "Create case" to open a new support case to Amazon.
This is such a common request, they have a dedicated option for it.
Select "Service limit increase" in the regarding field.
We need to select lightsail from the limit type dropdown
Then, within the request 1 box, select your region you're planning to work in.
I'm using "US East (Northern Virginia)".
Next choose the limit, which is actually the resource that needs to be increased.
I need more instances.
Once the limit resource has been selected the "New limit value" field should appear.
Provide the value you think you'll need.
The documented account limit is fine; I will specify 20
If there are other items you need to increase, you can add other requests,
however I'm content with asking for more instances.
Now, in the "Use Case Description" provide a justification for the increase.
I'm just gonna point out that the documentation specifies 20 instances.
Later on I will add another comment about needing this for a technical course
using their services as a cloud platform.
I'll leave the support language as English, since that's what I speak and contact method will be web.
I could have them call me, but I screen my calls these days,
which means I might miss a call from an unfamiliar number.
Once done filling out the form, click submit.
That brings us to the case details page,
which basically confirms we created a new case to the support team.
The resolution or response time will be based on the AWS support plan.
Since I decided to go with the basic plan, which is included with all AWS accounts,
that gives me the lowest priority, especially since I submitted this on a weekend.
I'll keep an eye on my email for any Amazon support responses.
Now it's just a waiting game.
OK, now it's been a few days since I submitted the request to increase the account limits,
and I finally have a response.
W en I return to the support page under account and then customer support
I see the case is now resolved.
Clicking on the case, I can see the details regarding the resolution.
Basically, if we review the start of the case until Amazon agreed to increase my limit,
it was about two or three days.
Then it took me a few days to verify the limits were indeed increased,
and to close my case in response.
I point this out, because you need to plan accordingly.
Part of the time was waiting for an Amazon support person to respond to my case ticket,
which, since it was opened on the weekend,
it wasn't until early Monday morning following that weekend.
Then, it took about a day or so of back and forth discussions until the limits were increased for me.
In this lesson I introduced you to the scaling section by going over why you might need the scale Jenkins
and the options to consider, specifically scaling up and scaling out.
We ended with me submitting a case to increase my account limits,
and the follow up when the request was granted.
In the next lesson we will start with scaling our Jenkins server up
by replacing it with a larger instance.

--- Bigger is Better ---

Welcome.
In this lesson, we will take things to the next level by scaling Jenkins up, by moving to a much larger
instance.
As you may have experienced already, the Jenkins server occasionally experiences issues.
These issues can be temporarily resolved by restarting Jenkins.
But this isn't a long term solution.
While testing out more involved builds on the Jenkins server, I quickly found the limitation of the
instance type I selected for Jenkins.
While it qualifies for a free month, it really isn't large enough to run Nginx Jenkins and any complex
builds at the same time.
I kept running into proxy server issues from Nginx reporting 502 and 504 errors.
For me, this is all good.
This gives me a great example of when we need to consider moving to a more powerful system.
For Jenkins.
In reality, since Jenkins is a web application that runs on Java, it really needs a certain amount
of memory to run.
And if you plan on running a Java build within it, say a maven or ant build that requires even more
processor power and memory to get the job done.
This became clear when Jenkins would appear to be fine with simple shell commands, but completely stopped
working when running an example Maven project, Jenkins requires at least 512MB of Ram and two gigabytes
of disk space.
While our instance is perfectly fine with 20GB of disk space, the 512MB for the entire system just
was below what we needed for Jenkins to run for any long periods of time.
Remember that 512MB is used by many more processes besides Jenkins.
So Jenkins really has less than 512MB on our Lightsail instance, sometimes it doesn't pay to go cheap.
That's fine.
Since Jenkins lasted long enough to make it through the previous section, although you might have needed
to restart it a few times.
CloudBees The companies that oversees the development of Jenkins and several plugins recommends a good
starting point of four gigabytes of Ram with at least 50GB of disk space.
While Jenkins will be fine on less than four gigabytes of Ram, but probably at least one gigabyte.
Let's use the $40 a month plan since that comes with eight gigs of memory and two virtual CPUs and 160GB
of disk space.
Since that doesn't qualify for the free month, we will have to pay for this instance for this demo.
If you follow along, you can delete it afterwards and only get charged for the few hours you need it
instead of the full $40 a month.
It wouldn't make sense to scale up to the recommended starting point now, would it, considering we
only need it for a little while.
I think the strikes a fair balance between going big and going broke if you want.
You can also look at other options available either more or less expensive.
I went above the starting point recommendation because the four gigabytes is for Jenkins itself.
If you want anything else to run like the operating system that Nginx proxy providing SSL encryption
or the actual builds, we need a bit more.
Great.
So now we know what we need to do.
How do we do it?
Simple.
We will use the same process we've been using before.
Snapshot a backup, create an instance from it, but this time we will choose a larger plan.
Well, let's get started.
I'm starting out on the Lightsail account page on the Instances tab.
First, let's make sure our operating system is up to date.
Return to your terminal program and log in to the current Jenkins server SSH space and then your domain
name.
Switch to the root user sudo space su space dash l.
Let's update apps package listing apt get space update space dash y.
Then let's update any packages that need updating.
APT get space upgrade.
Space dash y.
At least for me.
I need the restart Jenkins long enough to update the plugins system.
Systemctl space restart space.
Jenkins.
Let's return to our web browser and over to the Jenkins page right before restarting Jenkins.
I was getting a 502 from Nginx.
Let's refresh the page.
Jenkins is restarting.
Once Jenkins is ready, you will be either presented to login or you will end up on the dashboard either
way.
Once on the Jenkins dashboard, go to manage Jenkins and then manage plugins.
We have a handful of plugins to update.
I'll double check for the latest information.
Now let's select all the plugins to update and then walk through the update and then restart process.
Once Jenkins restarts with all the updated plugins activated, return to the dashboard.
Now back to the terminal.
Let's exit out of the instance.
Great.
Now let's take the snapshot of our instance.
Go to the instance and then to snapshots.
Let's create a snapshot.
While we're waiting on the snapshot process, let's take a look at the recommended instance size for
Jenkins.
I'm on the CloudBees website and their documentation says that Jenkins needs at least 512MB of Ram.
That is memory to run.
That's just for Jenkins.
That doesn't include the operating system or other programs.
The recommended starting point is the system with four gigabytes of memory and 50GB of disk space.
The instance we're considering will exceed the recommended specs.
Otherwise, what's the point?
Well, let's return to the snapshots tab and wait for the snapshot to finish up.
After a little while, the snapshot is complete, which we can see under recent snapshots.
Expand out and choose the option to create a new instance which takes us to a familiar page.
We've done this all before, but this time the difference will be the instance plan we will choose.
So far, we have been using the lowest plan since that gives us one month free usage.
However, it just hasn't been enough for Jenkins to run for a long time, so choosing just about any
other plan will be an improvement.
Feel free to review all the plans available.
I've considered going with the $20 plan before, but really I like the $40 plan the most for this lesson.
Let's go really big.
Well, sorta.
We still have to pay for it, so let's exceed the requirements while not spending too much on it.
And considering we only need this instance for a little while, I don't mind going a little bigger to
prove the point.
Of course, if you plan to use this instance for much longer, pick the plan that best fits your needs
and is within your budget.
Great.
With the plan selected, let's name the instance much in the same way we have named the other so far.
Jenkins Dash Master Dash four.
Then create instance.
Once back on the instances tab, we see we have a new larger instance initializing.
Since we picked a larger plan with a much larger disk space, the allocation time will take a bit longer.
Great.
Now the instance is ready to go.
Now that we have our new instance, we need to update the firewall rules to allow https traffic.
Head over to the networking tab and jump down to the firewall table.
Let's add another rule for Https.
And then save the changes.
Great.
We now can allow for secure traffic.
To our instance.
We can switch where the static IP address is pointing, return to the top level for lightsail and then
go to the overall networking tab like we've done many times before.
Let's detach the current instance from the static IP address and attach it to the new instance we just
created.
With that in place, the domain name associated with the static IP address will now send traffic to
our new instance.
Let's confirm that.
Now return to the Jenkins web browser tab and refresh or reload your web browser to ensure we have the
latest information from the server.
In this case, Jenkins is still loading up.
Once complete, Jenkins returns me to the dashboard.
While this seems like a simple test, everything has to be working correctly For this to work effortlessly.
That means Nginx is correctly configured to receive secure traffic, which is then forwarded to the
Jenkins server on the same system.
Finally, let's make sure we can log in to the new instance using SSH.
If you use a domain name to SSH into the instance, you'll need to remove any previous known host fingerprints
before connecting again.
Let's use the SSH key gen space dash r trick again to clean up the fingerprint.
Now let's try reconnecting.
This time it worked.
Of course.
We had to confirm a new fingerprint once logged in.
Let's take a look at the memory currently being used.
Free space dash h.
We have used over one gigabyte of memory so far.
So out of the eight gigabytes of memory, we have a total of 6.5 available.
So it looks like we needed at least one gigabyte of memory to run.
Jenkins If we check the disk space usage DF space dash H We're no dangers here.
We're only using a few gigs of the one 60 gigabyte of disk space.
Now that we have confirmed the new, larger Jenkins instance is up and running, well, we can delete
the snapshot we took earlier, return to the snapshots tab and delete the snapshot.
After thatrillioneturn to the instances tab.
The same is true for the older Jenkins instance.
After a successful transition, we no longer need the old instance.
Let's delete that one as well.
In this lesson, we upgraded our current Jenkins instance to a plan that is much larger, leading to
greater stability and capabilities.
In the next lesson, we will try out our new and improved Jenkins instance with a Maven based Jenkins
project.

--- Bigger Project ---

Welcome in this video.
We are going to test out our new, bigger, better Jenkins server with a Maven project.
We've actually used this same Maven project before while working with Jenkins on the local side, which
is Time tracker for this example.
We aren't going to do anything fancy, we just want to run the main project and test out our Jenkins
server is running correctly.
Log in to your GitHub account.
And go to your copy of Time Tracker.
This is the simple Multi-module maven project we used earlier in this course.
Go to the clone and download button and expand that out.
Then copy the https clone URL for this repository.
Now let's hop back over to our Jenkins server.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard, let's create a new project by clicking on new item on the side
menu.
Let's name it Time Dash tracker and make it a freestyle build.
Once on the configure page for the new project, go to the source code management section, select Git
and then paste in the clone URL we copied earlier into the repository URL field.
Everything else here is fine.
So let's jump down to the build section here.
Select the item.
Invoke top level Maven targets to provide the Maven specific build step for Maven version select Maven
three, which we configured earlier for goals.
Just type package after all that save the changes.
Once on the project status page, click build now to trigger the build.
Of course, being the first build of a Maven project, Maven needs to download a lot of dependencies.
We can see this in action by clicking on the blue ball of the build in progress that takes us to the
console output for the build which is streamed live.
As the build happens, after a few moments, Jenkins and Maven finish up with a successful build status.
After the build we can poke around the build page and the various project pages and workspace to review
the results of the build.
Once done exploring the build results.
Return to the project status page for the Time Tracker Jenkins Project.
In this lesson, we used a familiar Maven project to test out our new and improved Jenkins server.
Now that we have scaled up in the next lesson, we will start the scaling out process by looking at
the design.

--- Scale Up Design ---

In this lesson, we're going to talk about the design or plans for scaling out our Jenkins server infrastructure.
While it's fun to jump into the actual implementation, it really pays to take a moment to think about
how to implement the scaling out process.
In particular, we need to plan out how many instances we will need, what sizes and for what purpose.
First, we covered scaling our Jenkins server instance up by adding more resources, disk, space,
memory and compute power.
However, scaling up only can take you so far.
At some point you need to look at scaling out that is, adding more instances into the mix.
To scale out, we're going to use four instances For this example, I want to start out by having a
dedicated Nginx web proxy server that will terminate our SSL connection for Https that is secure web
traffic and proxy it to the Jenkins master on Port 8080.
We'll need to update the firewall rules for this instance to allow https traffic and this will also
be the instance we attach the static IP address to serve for our domain name associated with our Jenkins
system.
Since Nginx is fairly lightweight, the smallest instance plan will be fine, which is great.
We can save a little on hosting fees here.
The Jenkins master will be on its own instance since Jenkins listens on Port 8080, we will replace
the standard Http firewall rule with a custom rule for port 8080.
The Jenkins master will really just be a front end for the projects and builds we manage using Jenkins.
The actual builds will occur on dedicated build nodes attached to the Jenkins master using SSH.
Those instances won't need Http traffic at all, so we'll update the firewall rules for those instances
accordingly.
In reality, we could add as many build node instances as we need to support our demand.
This is the primary way that scaling happens on a Jenkins system.
The next level up would be to replicate the entire Jenkins setup for each business unit, group or team.
The Jenkins master and any build nodes or slaves will have a mid-range $10 plan for each instance or
$30 total.
This provides us enough resources to get the job done, but isn't too expensive to run all the time.
If you run for the full month for the entire infrastructure, we're only talking about $34 a month,
assuming we stay within our data transfer allocation, which should be easy starting out, of course
this is greater than zero, but if your company already pays for AWS resources, this isn't a new concept
with the exception of the static IP address associated with the Nginx web proxy, all the communication
between our instances will be done using the private IP addresses.
This saves us on traffic costs.
If we use the public IP addresses, the traffic will count against our ingress and egress, traffic
allocation and possible overages.
Also, it's just a more secure practice to communicate on all private addresses where possible.
This infrastructure setup has a lot of potential.
We could scale up by replacing each instance with an even larger instance.
Still, we could add more build nodes to the mix.
Also allows us the flexibility to shut down.
That is, remove most of our Jenkins infrastructure by just leaving the web proxy running with the attached
static IP address.
This is a great option for proof of concept testing or development.
Jenkins servers, of course, for production servers, you want to run the servers all the time.
Even with this setup, we have the potential to use our VPC peering connection to leverage standard
AWS resources to scale even further with Docker orchestrated slaves using ECS or Eks.
In this lesson, we took a moment to think about what our scaled out Jenkins infrastructure should look
like before we just start randomly spinning up stuff.
Now that we have a plan.
In the next lesson, we will start with the first phase, which is implementing a secure web proxy using
Nginx.

--- Web Proxy Server, Part 1 ---

In this lesson, we will start the setup of a dedicated Nginx web server instance in Lightsail.
The approach we will take will be to setup a standard Nginx website serving a single web page.
This will allow us to focus on setting up the Nginx instance first.
Then in a later lesson, we will enable security using the letsencrypt service we covered before.
Once we set up the Jenkins master, we will revisit the Nginx configuration and transition it over to
a web proxy instead of serving static web content.
We're doing this since we really need the Jenkins setup before we can create a web proxy.
Let's get going.
Currently I'm on the main lightsail page and on the Instances tab.
Before we get started, let's take a look at the script and configuration file that will be used in
this lesson.
We basically have seen something that looks similar to these files, but combined together with Jenkins.
Now these files are just for Nginx.
Go to the Jenkins Training GitHub organization and then the repository for this course.
Jenkins Bootcamp Dash course, then go into the folder and then Lightsail.
I have a new folder called Scale that contains the files needed for this section.
Go into that folder once there.
Let's look at the index.html file first.
There's nothing special here.
It's just a real basic web page whose sole purpose is to simply prove that Nginx is working.
Great.
Now let's return to the scale folder and then select Web.config.
This will be the Nginx configuration file that will be automatically installed by the launch script.
We will review next for an Nginx configuration file.
It's fairly straightforward.
We set up a server config block listening on port 80.
We have declared the access and error logs.
The root directive tells Nginx which folder on the system to serve content from the index directive.
Specifies the main or default web page to load.
If you don't specify one directly in the URL.
Finally, the dot well known path block is needed for the letsencrypt process we will cover in an upcoming
lesson.
Now let's return to the scale folder and select the last file to review the Nginx server dot h file.
This will be the launch script.
As with the other launch script when we had everything combined, we start off with several utilities
and I've included Nginx in the same command just to save a bit of time.
Then the script will move into the Nginx configuration folder located in slash slash Nginx.
To download a couple of shell scripts we will be using in upcoming lectures.
We will review the contents of those scripts and their respective lessons.
Either way, I want to download them now so they'll be available when we need them later.
Then we go into the site's available folder to download the Web.config file we just looked at, and
then we add the symbolic link from the site's enabled folder to that configuration file, which is how
we normally enable configurations in Nginx.
Once that is done, we need to create the root folder and the file Nginx will be serving once the Jenkins
folder is created.
We download that index.html file from GitHub and make sure others can see it.
With all that set up we are nearly done with nginx.
We finish up by testing our configuration with Nginx before restarting it and making sure it's set up
to start after reboots.
Finally, we install the cert bot tools needed for the letsencrypt process.
There are a few commented out lines that remind us of the commands we will use in the next few lessons.
Now that we've reviewed the files we use in this lesson, let's create the new SSH key pair.
I prefer to create different SSH key pairs for each layer in my system for added security.
Sure.
I could just use the same key pair for all instances, but in a real world production system you would
likely have different keys for different servers.
Let's go back up to the Lightsail folder where we have the Readme file.
We've seen this before, but I like to use it as a reminder.
Now go to your terminal program or git bash on windows and then go to your SSH folder under your home
directory.
From here we can issue the SSH keygen command to create our new public private key pair.
Ssh ssh keygen space dash t space RSA space dash b space 4096 Space dash capital C then your email address
enclosed in double quotes.
Space dash F space AWS dash Lightsail dash Web key and then press enter again.
The key thing simple.
I'll skip setting a passphrase now.
We should have a new private public key pair named after the file name we passed in.
LOL.
Great.
It looks like both files were created.
Remember the dot pub file is the public side of the key pair.
We need to copy it to our home directory for easy access by AWS CP Space dash Lightsail dash web key
pub space dot dot.
Great.
Let's return to our home directory.
If I list my files here, we should have both pub files here.
Great.
Now let's add our new key pair to lightsail.
I've already shown how to do that during the create instance process, but there's another way we can
manage our SSH keys directly from our account profile page in Lightsail.
Once back on the lightsail page, go to the account menu, then select account.
Go to the SSH keys tab, which is where we can manage our keys that we have set up so far and add new
ones.
Since we have already created our key pair for our local system, we just need to upload a new one.
Your current region should already be selected if not choose it.
And then click upload.
Then on the next dialog, choose file and then navigate to the location where your public key is.
Select the AWS dash Lightsail dash Webgui pub or whatever you ended up calling it.
And then click open, then click upload key.
After a few moments you should return to the SSH keys tab within the account page.
But now with a new SSH key added and selected, the selected key will be the default key used for any
new instances.
In this lesson we started to create an Nginx web server by reviewing the files we'll be using and setting
up a new SSH key pair in the next lesson.
We will continue by actually creating the new instance that will run Nginx as a web server.

--- Web Proxy Server, Part 2 ---

In this lesson, we will finish up setting up a dedicated Nginx web server instance in Lightsail.
Now that we have reviewed our files and created a new SSH key pair, we are ready to create a new instance
to host our Nginx web server and eventually the proxy server for Jenkins.
I'll try to hop through the already familiar parts as much as possible.
Let's start by clicking on Create instance.
We want to select OS only under blueprints and from the list choose Ubuntu 18.04 LTS.
If you remember we only had the 16.04 LTS option available since our last recorded, which wasn't too
long ago.
Amazon added this option, which is great.
This saves me the step of upgrading the distribution later on.
Anyway, scroll down a bit and expand out the launch script.
Now return to GitHub and get the raw content of the Nginx dash servers file.
And paste it into the launch script text box.
The SSH key pair we just added should already be selected.
The default lowest cost plan will be fine.
We will only be running Nginx on this instance.
Let's give the instance name Nginx dash web dash one with everything filled out.
Click create instance.
Great.
We should be returned to the Instances tab to wait for the new instance.
In a few moments it will transition from pending to running.
Wait a few more moments to give our launch script adequate time to finish up.
Great.
Now let's dive into the details of our new instance and grab the public IP address.
Right now, this is the assigned dynamic IP address.
We'll fix this in a minute.
For now, just copy the current public IP address and then open up a new web browser tab or reuse an
existing one and then paste in the IP address we just copied into the address bar.
Your browser should automatically use Http to access that IP address.
If everything goes well, you should see a very simple web page like this.
As mentioned before, this is just to prove Nginx is installed and working correctly.
Great.
Now that we have confirmed that Nginx is up and running on a brand new instance, let's make a few networking
adjustments.
First, let's switch the static IP address from the Jenkins instance from a previous lesson back on
the instances tab.
Jump over to the networking tab, then go to the static IP address we've been using detach from the
current Jenkins master instance and then attach it to the new Nginx instance.
It won't make much sense right now, but we need this transition to happen now.
So the Letsencrypt validation process can work.
Now that the static IP address is now pointing to the Nginx instance, our domain name will also resolve
as well.
Let's try that out now.
Go to another web browser tab and go to Http colon slash slash and then your domain name.
Of course, I'm using my domain name, which is build Jenkins dot training.
Great.
We have now verified that we can access Nginx and our demo web page using our domain name we set up
for accessing Jenkins.
With all that done, let's log in to our new instance.
Return to your terminal program or get bash on Windows.
Of course, since we are accessing a new system, the fingerprint will be different and attempts to
log in right now will be rejected.
Also, we need to update the SSH key to use while logging in.
At least if we use the domain name to do so.
Let's start by updating our SSH configuration.
Go into the SSH folder and use a text editor to edit the config file.
We currently have a host entry for the domain name.
We have been associated with a static IP address.
However, since our Nginx instance uses a different SSH key, we need to update the identity file entry
to point to the new key file.
For me.
The host build Jenkins training needs to use the AWS Lightsail web key instead of the current value.
Once you have made that change, save the changes and close your text editor for me.
Since I'm using nano, I'll save on my way out ctrl x, y and then enter great with the SSH key updated.
Let's return to the home directory and then use the SSH key gen command to remove the old fingerprint
ssh key gen space dash r and then our domain name.
Now that our known host file is updated, we can now attempt to log in again.
Ssh.
And then your domain name.
You should now be logged in to your new Nginx web server instance via SSH.
While we're here, let's take a look at the cloud init output log.
Let's log in as root.
Sudo space su space dash l then go to the logs directory.
CD space slash var log.
Let's list the files here.
L l.
Now let's dump the contents of the cloud init output log file into the terminal.
Cat space cloud init dash output dot log.
Of course, a ton of text scrolls by and depending on your terminal settings, there's only so much
you can scroll back.
However, what we need should be towards the end of the file.
Anyway.
If we scroll back a bit, we will be seeing this in reverse order starting with the certbot and related
dependencies.
Then our Nginx setup and the download of the scripts and the configuration file.
Well we've already confirmed all this is working.
I mainly want to see if there were any errors that occurred that might not show up until later.
However, everything looks fine for now.
When we first logged in, the welcome screen told us several packages needed to be updated, including
many security patches.
Let's take care of that now.
First, let's make sure that we have the latest package information apt.
Get space update dash y.
Then let's upgrade everything needing it apt get space upgrade Space dash y.
If during the update process you're prompted, read the available options and choose accordingly.
Normally I choose to keep the existing configuration with everything updated.
Let's make sure that our system is robust and can survive a reboot.
I want to fix anything that doesn't automatically start again.
While we could do this from the terminal, let's use the reboot feature in Lightsail.
Hop back over to the web browser with Lightsail.
Click into the Nginx instance and once that page loads, click reboot from our perspective.
It will look nearly instantaneous.
However, if we return back to the terminal, we might need to wait a few moments before we're able
to connect via SSH while waiting on the reboot.
Let's clean up a bit by removing the old Jenkins instance we no longer need.
Yes, it's true.
We don't have a Jenkins set up yet.
However, when we get to that point we're going to start over with a new install script we will cover
a bit later.
Because of that, we don't need the old Jenkins master any longer.
From the instances tab expand the options for the Jenkins instance and select delete confirm the deletion
now that the Jenkins instance is gone.
Okay, let's see if Nginx is running again.
Let's return to the web browser tab with Nginx and the simple web page and refresh or reload the page.
Hopefully the page just isn't cached.
Now let's try to reconnect via SSH.
Great.
Looks like the reboot has completed.
Ah.
However, I noticed that we still have a few updates left.
Now these updates were held back on purpose by the package manager.
Let's check it out after logging in as root.
Sudo space su space dash l.
Then let's refresh our package information apt get space update Space dash y.
Now let's attempt to upgrade our packages.
APT get space.
Upgrade space dash y.
I see the problem.
We have some linux kernel related packages that need to be updated.
Kernel updates are a lot more involved and risky than your normal packages.
Because of that, our package manager by default holds back these types of packages requiring us to
use the install subcommand to force the update.
Let's do that now.
APT get install.
And now I'm going to copy the list of packages from above and paste it in right here.
Then I'll tack on the dash y option to automatically accept the upgrade.
It is likely you will need to choose between conflicting versions of various configuration files.
For now, I'll just keep the existing configuration after the kernel update we need to reboot our system.
I'll exit our terminal session with the instance and reboot the instance from the Lightsail interface.
After rebooting, I'll head back over to the terminal and attempt to reconnect via SSH.
Looks like it was a bit too soon.
My SSH connection timed out.
I just wanted to point that out because the web interface shows the reboot complete, but my system
is very much still in progress after a few more moments.
Let's try again.
Great.
This time I was able to connect again.
Once we connect, we don't have any more packages for update.
Our system is completely up to date.
All right, let's reset the get to a good starting point for the next lesson.
I'm going to exit out of the active terminal session with the Nginx instance.
Now I'm going to hop back over to my web browser, go to the GitHub page and go back to the scale folder
within the repository.
Finally return to the main Lightsail page.
In this lesson we created an Nginx web server instance and updated it with all the most recent patches.
In the next lesson we will secure the Nginx configuration with letsencrypt.

--- Securing with SSL ---

In this lesson, we will enable security with SSL and Https in Nginx using the free Letsencrypt service.
Since we've already covered the Letsencrypt service, I won't have to cover all the benefits of securing
your website or various types of certificates.
Also, I've written a script that automates much of what I manually covered in an earlier lesson.
Right now I'm back at the main Lightsail web page as a quick review of where we are now.
We have a dedicated Nginx instance which we will eventually set up as a proxy to the Jenkins master
We will set up a bit later.
The Nginx instance has the static IP address associated with it, since any traffic to our Jenkins master
will be routed through it.
If we go to our web browser tab that it serves, we see that Nginx is serving a simple web page.
With that all in place, let's enable security.
First, let's review the script that will make that all possible.
Open up a web browser tab to the Jenkins Bootcamp GitHub repository, then go to the AWS Lightsail scale
folder.
I'm there now in this folder there's a shell script called Secure Dash Web.
Let's look at that file.
In a previous lesson, this file was already downloaded into the instance.
We're going to review the code here before we execute it.
Starting at the top, after the standard shebang, the script checks the current user.
Since this script must be ran as the root user, then I check for the required command line arguments.
The first one is the domain name used with Jenkins.
This will be the domain name that we have been using with the static IP address.
The second argument is the email address that is associated with the certificate that will be generated
by the Letsencrypt service.
Then, after collecting the information the script needs, the Certbot command is called but with several
more options than we've used before.
We'll pass in options like agreeing to the terms of service so the command can be fully automated.
The Certbot program will use the Nginx web route as the context for the domain control challenge.
Assuming this step is successful, the new SSL TLS certificate will be issued and downloaded to our
system.
After getting our certificate, the script downloads an Nginx configuration file for the secured version
of our website setup, which is then enabled right after replacing a placeholder for the domain name,
we then validate our Nginx configuration is valid and restart Nginx for everything to take effect.
After the shell script, return to the scale folder and open the web dash secured dot conf file that
will be the secured version of the configuration file for nginx.
Since this configuration only listens on port 443, we can have this configuration file active alongside
the non secure version.
You'll also notice we have a domain underscore name for the server name directive and other places throughout
the file.
The shell script will replace all places with the actual domain name you pass in to the script.
When we run it that way, this configuration will be set up to work correctly with the domain name We
are working with, in addition to all the other standard stuff for an Nginx configuration file, there
are a handful of settings specifically for configuring the SSL aspects of the server.
Now that we have reviewed both the Shell script and the corresponding Nginx configuration file, let's
return to Lightsail so we can update the firewall rules to allow for Https.
Of course we've done this before, so just go to the networking tab for the Nginx instance, then add
a new firewall rule, select Https and then save the changes.
Great.
Now https traffic will actually make it to our server.
Now that we understand what the shell script for this lesson will do, let's log in to our instance
and run it.
Return to your terminal program or git bash on windows and SSH into your instance like so.
Once logged in, assume the root user sudo space su space l.
The script we looked at earlier was downloaded into the nginx main folder.
Let's go there now.
CD space slash etsy slash nginx.
Let's list the files to see the script here.
L l.
Great.
And it looks like we have execute permissions already set up.
Let's try running the script without any arguments.
First dot slash secure dash web dot h.
The script responds with listing the required command arguments, the fully qualified domain name and
the email address.
Let's try again, but this time providing those pieces of information.
Dot slash secure dash, web.sh.
Then your domain name.
Of course.
I'm using Bill Jenkins training space, then your email address.
Let's double check.
Make sure you've spelled everything correctly and then press enter.
If everything goes well, Certbot should return with something like this.
Providing details where the certificate is located and other important information.
Right after that, the script will download the secure configuration file we reviewed earlier, replace
the domain, underscore name entries, make the configuration enabled, and then restart Nginx for everything
to take effect.
Hopefully everything goes well and you'll end up with a message like this towards the end.
It's possible the Certbot process might fail.
I've occasionally seen this happen.
You could try running the script again.
Or worst case, I have a back out script that will revert any changes so you can try again.
Great.
With the script complete and apparently successful, let's verify everything is set up correctly.
Let's start with checking the nginx server status systemctl space status, space nginx.
Hopefully nginx will be active and running press Q to quit if you don't immediately return to your terminal,
let's try out our browser once back to our web browser, refresh the current Nginx web page that confirms
we haven't broken anything yet.
Now update the URL to use the https version.
Now this should also work.
We can also check the certificate.
And inspect its details.
There's one final thing I want to cover, and this is something I didn't cover earlier.
That is the renewal process.
Head back over to your terminal and while still logged in to the instance as root run, the Certbot
command like this.
Certbot space renew space dash, dash, dry dash run.
This will have certbot do a dry run renewal attempt.
This verifies we can automatically renew our certificates once we get closer to needing to do so.
The Letsencrypt project recommends attempting to renew every 60 days and certificates expire at 90 days
after issuance.
Looks like the renewal attempt was successful.
In this lesson, we secured the existing Nginx instance using the Letsencrypt service.
In the next lesson, we will set up our Jenkins master.

--- Jenkins Master Instance ---

Welcome.
In this video, we're going to set up the Jenkins master.
That's part of our scaled out approach.
Starting out.
I'm right now on the Lightsail home page.
So far we have set up an Nginx web server and secured it with the Letsencrypt service.
We can see that much with an open web browser tab still open to the static web page.
Nginx is serving to the domain name associated with our static IP address all served over Https.
Now let's turn our attention to setting up a Jenkins master instance, after which we can update our
Nginx configuration to serve as a proxy to it.
In an upcoming lesson.
Let's jump back over to the GitHub repository for this course and make sure you're in the AWS Lightsail
scale folder.
Now click on the Jenkins Dash Master Dash Server SSH file.
This file is much like the original launch script for the all in one setup in the previous section.
However, we don't have the nginx setup.
Other than that it should be about the same.
While we're here.
Let's go to the raw version of the script and copy the contents to the clipboard.
Now let's jump back over to Lightsail and create the Jenkins master instance from the Instances tab.
Click Create instance on the Create Instance page.
The location is fine, keep it on Linux Unix platform and click on OS only from the blueprints.
Choose Ubuntu 18.04 LTS.
Expand out the launch script text box now paste in the contents of the clipboard, which should contain
the script code from our Jenkins master launch script.
Now expand out the SSH key options.
The currently selected one isn't the one we need for the Jenkins master.
Instead choose the AWS dash Lightsail Dash Jenkins dash Master key or whatever the equivalent is called
in your account for the plan.
We need to choose a plan that is large enough to handle running Jenkins without running out of memory,
but perhaps not as large as our previous super sized Jenkins master.
I'll pick the $10 a month plan since that gives us enough memory.
Two gigabytes with plenty of disk space, 60GB and a single virtual CPU, which should be okay since
we won't be running any builds directly on the master.
Let's keep the same naming convention we had before.
Let's call it Jenkins Dash Master Dash five before moving forward.
Let's double check the form.
Now click Create instance.
Once on the instances tab, we see the new instance move from pending to running.
We should now have two instances the Nginx instance we created earlier in this section and the brand
new instance that should contain our Jenkins master provided the launch script was successful.
Now that the newly created instance is running, let's log in to it using SSH.
To do that, we need to grab the public IP address that was dynamically assigned to this instance.
I'll drill into the instance and then the public IP address should be easily seen on the first page.
Copy the public IP address to your clipboard, jump over to your terminal program or git bash on windows
and let's set up the SSH config entry from your home directory.
Go into the SSH folder and then use your favorite text editor or nano to open the config file here.
Once open, let's add a new host entry.
This entry will follow the exact same format as the one above, except we will use the IP address that
should be in our clipboard in the host directive.
We will keep the same user which is ubuntu and the identity file needs to reflect the one for the Jenkins
master key.
Once done making those changes, save and close the config file for me that will be control x, y and
then enter.
Now I'm going to return to my home directory.
Make sure the public IP address is still in your clipboard.
We can now use it to attempt to connect via SSH using that IP address.
Ssh space and then paste in your IP address and press enter as we have done several times already.
Type yes for the fingerprint validation.
And now we should be logged in to the new instance.
Of course I liked the review of the launch script output logs to look for any errors.
Let's do that now.
First log in as root.
Sudo space su space dash l then output the cloudinit output log file CD space slash var log and cat
space cloud init dash output dot log.
Let's scroll back a bit until we find familiar things happening.
For me this is usually around the openjdk installation.
Then we can move forward through the output to see if anything sticks out.
I do see one line that could be problematic.
Something about unable to reopen Standard N.
Hopefully that didn't actually impact anything needed for Jenkins.
Let's double check that by using Systemctl to check the status of Jenkins, since by the end of the
launch script Jenkins should be installed enabled at boot and running Systemctl space status.
Space Jenkins.
It shows active and exited, which should be fine to test out.
If Jenkins is really running, we need to access it using our web browser.
To do that, we need to open up a firewall port for port 8080, which is how Jenkins is configured to
run by default.
Return to your web browser tab with Lightsail, then go into the networking tab for the Jenkins master
instance, go down to the firewall table and then replace the Http entry for Custom Cape TCP protocol
and put 8080 in the port range field.
Save the changes.
Assuming the public IP address for this instance is still in your clipboard, Open a new web browser
tab and type http colon slash slash and then paste in the public IP address for Jenkins followed by
colon 80, 80 and press enter.
If everything was set up correctly.
The Jenkins getting started Initial page should be displayed.
Basically, this confirms Jenkins is up and running.
We will come back to this in a bit.
Since this connection isn't secure, it really isn't safe to walk through this wizard over the open
internet.
Before we close out, let's take a look at the resources being used on our Jenkins master instance.
It's important to keep an eye out on how your system is performing in order to provide a good user experience
while also being as frugal as possible.
Head back over to the terminal program where we are still logged in to the Jenkins master instance via
SSH.
Go see how the disk space is doing.
DF space dash h.
The dash h option makes the values returned in human readable sizes using megabytes and gigabytes instead
of just large numbers.
Now, for the part that normally gives us trouble, the memory free space dash h.
This gives us the total memory size and how much is used in free.
Looks like we picked the right instance plan plenty of room for growth without breaking the bank.
We are done with this instance.
For now, let's exit out of both the root user session and the initial login session.
In this lesson, we set up a Jenkins master and verified it was up and running as expected.
In the next lesson, we'll connect our Nginx server to Jenkins, finally establishing the secured web
proxy we've been working towards.

--- Web Proxy Connection ---

Welcome in this video, we're going to hook up Ingenix to our Jenkins' master, completing the secured
Web proxy, Jenkins.
I'm currently on the lights, HelpAge on the details page for the Jenkins master instance we created
earlier.
Let's look at the script we will run that will update our current static website.
Ingenix configuration to a secured web proxy returned to the Jenkins' Boot Camp GitHub repository in
the web browser.
We should still be within the IWC Leitzel scale folder.
Click on the file.
Set up Dasch Proxy Radisich.
This file contains a script that will convert the existing static website configuration into a web proxy
while retaining the SSL security we set up earlier.
This script should already be on the next instance we set up earlier in the section.
We start off with a script that makes sure that we're running as the user and also the two require command
arguments, which in this case would be the fully qualified domain name we use to address Jenkins' and
the private IP address for our jenkins' master incents.
Every instance we create in Lighthill comes with two IP addresses, a public IP address which is accessible
from any place on the open Internet and a private IP address that only other Whitesell resources can
see when possible configure traffic to use the private IP address for any internal or inside Leitzel
communication.
This will save on costs since private traffic is free once your monthly transfer allowance is exceeded.
It's also a good security policy to use the private IP addresses to link interconnected or related instances
and services.
After getting the domain name and private IP address, we download the Web proxy account file, which
we will look at in just a moment.
This file is a combined nonsecure and secure web server configuration for Ingenix, in which we will
need to replace a few values to make it work for us, replacing the domain name and the private IP addresses
encoded within the config file.
After enabling that new configuration file, we will then remove the links to the other configuration
files so they don't get loaded by Ingenix.
The original configuration files are still left in the available sites folder if you need to use them
for some reason.
Finally, we need to test a new configuration and reload Ingenix.
Now let's return to the scale folder and then look at the web proxy Tarkoff.
Here we have an upstream block that defines Art Jenkins master target, the server directive has a placeholder
for the actual private IP address that will be updated by the script we just looked at.
Then we have to server blocks.
The first one is the nonsecure web server configuration listing on Port 80, which will basically forward
any traffic we have over to the secured server.
With the exception of the well-known path which is needed for the Secret Service.
The second server block is where we define the actual secured Web proxy.
This server configuration listens on Port four four three and has SSL enabled.
We have the domain name replacement values, which will set up the server name and the path to the cert
files.
The last block is a slash location which configures the word proxy.
Basically, all traffic is sent over to the jenkins' master.
I do have a small fix for Blue Ocean Pass, but everything else is handled by the proxy pass and proxy
redirect in combination with several HTP headers.
Great.
Now let's head back over to our Ingenix Web server page, we can reload this to make sure it's still
giving us the static page, which is secured.
Let's grab the private IP address from our Jenkins' master in Leitzel by going over to the Jenkins'
Master Instant Details page, then copy the private IP address to the clipboard.
Now head back over to your terminal or get National Windows and SSL into the Internet server using the
domain name you have set up for this purpose SSA and then you're fully qualified.
Domain name.
Once logged in, assume the root user sudo space S2 D'Urso and then go into the main engine x folder,
KDDI Space, ACTC single engine X.
If we list the files and folders here now you will see the set up Dasch proxy script here and it should
have the execute permissions we need.
Let's run the script now.
Passing in the required command arguments dogs set up dash proxy dot S.H. space and then you're fully
qualified domain name for jenkins' space and then paste in the private IP address to the jenkins' master
and instance we just created in the previous lesson.
Your command should look something like this.
Of course you need to provide your own domain name for Jenkins'.
Now, press, enter, run the script.
If everything goes well, the scripts output should look something like this with the final line showing
a successful test of the Engine X configuration file.
If all went well, we should be able to refresh or reload our Ingenix Web page and get Jenkins' instead.
However, sometimes you need to clear your Web browsers cache before this will actually work correctly.
Let's close the Engine X tab to make sure that it isn't cached any longer.
Then in Chrome I'm going to go to the settings button and in the drop down menu, more tools, then
clear browser data.
A dialogue should appear allowing us to choose what to clear I'm going to leave all the items is checked
and then click on clear data when the browser cache is purged.
Let's try accessing jenkins' using the domain name, which should use the Internet, use proxy configuration
in a new browser tab and in your browser's address bar type https, colon, swagga and then the domain
name pointing to Jenkins and then press enter.
If successful, you should get the initial page for the jenkins' getting started wizard.
Let's try out the non secured version.
If we remove the S in Ops and go to just HDP, which should be redirected back to the version and again
the initial page for the Jenkins' getting started.
Wizzard Now that the connection to our Ginkas master is secured, we can move forward with it getting
started.
Wizard knowing our secrets are encrypted in transit now that Ingenix is set up correctly that work as
a secured web proxy for our jenkins' master.
Let's make sure that let's encrypt renewal process still works.
Return to your terminal program or get back into windows.
And while still logged into the Ingenix instance as the route user type support space renou space dash
dash dry dash run.
As we've seen before, the dry run option allows us to go through the motions of getting a new certificate
without actually saving the results.
This helps confirm this process still works when we need to do this for real.
Looks like the renewal process still works, which is great news.
We change the Ingenix configuration without breaking anything at this point.
We're done with this instance.
S.H. session.
Let's exit out of the route session and the main login session and then return to our Web browser still
on the jenkins' getting started with Page.
In this lesson, we use the Shell script to update the Engine X configuration, the proxy all secure
traffic to the ginkas master, making it safe for us to work on Jenkins' over the open Internet.
In the next lesson, we will finish up setting up jenkins' by stepping through the getting started wizard
and making a few minor configuration changes.

--- Jenkins Setup ---

Welcome.
In this video we're going to set up and configure Jenkins by stepping through the Getting Started wizard
and making a few configuration tweaks afterwards.
I'm starting off on the Jenkins getting Started initial page, which is where we left off last.
We have gone through this process a few times before, so let's see if we can jump through this quickly.
First, let's log in to the Jenkins master instance via SSH.
If you need to do so, jump back over to the Jenkins master instance and copy the public IP address
into your clipboard.
Now return to your terminal or git bash on Windows SSH space and then the public IP address for your
Jenkins master and press enter.
Once logged in.
I noticed there's a lot of packages that need to be updated.
Let's take care of that first.
Log in as root sudo space su space dash l.
Let's refresh our package references and install the updates apt get space update space dash y.
Followed by apt get space upgrade space dash.
Why keep an eye out for any prompts that may need your attention?
For now, I'm going to keep the existing configurations if asked.
Of course, the initial upgrade won't install anything kernel related.
We need to install them directly.
Let's get that list by rerunning the upgrade command.
Then I need to select the packages in question and paste them into the install command next apt get
install and then paste in the packages.
Not yet upgraded.
And then I'm going to add the dash y option at the end.
If we press enter app dash get will upgrade all the specific packages like before.
Be ready for any prompts and answer them accordingly.
Now with everything upgraded.
Let's reboot our Jenkins instance from the Lightsail interface.
Let's hop over to the Jenkins web browser tab.
If we refresh immediately, Nginx will eventually time out and return a proxy error a 502 error page.
However, after a few moments Jenkins should be available again and refreshing or reloading again should
show the same Jenkins page Once again.
Let's move forward with unlocking Jenkins and walk you through the getting started Wizard.
Copy the path to the initial secret password file.
Head over to the terminal and log back into the same Jenkins master instance using SSH.
Once logged in, we could simply use the sudo command to print out the contents of the password file
sudo space, cat space and then paste in the path to the password file and then press enter.
Now copy the string of numbers and letters into your clipboard and return to the Jenkins page in the
browser.
Paste in the one time password in your clipboard into the administrator password field and then click
Continue.
For customized Jenkins stick with the suggested plugins for now.
We will update the plugins a bit later, but this gives us a good starting point.
After the installation of all the plugins, you should land on the create first admin user page.
As I've done before, I'll create an admin user with the name admin account.
Once done, click save and continue.
The instance configuration should point to the correct secured URL using the domain name we set up for
Jenkins to use.
Assuming that's correct, click save and finish.
Finally, once on the Jenkins is ready page, click start using Jenkins, which should take us directly
to the Jenkins dashboard.
Already logged in as the admin user.
There is one small update I want to make go to manage Jenkins.
And then configure system.
Change the usage option to only build jobs with the label expression matching this node.
That setting actually refers to this master.
We only want very specific jobs running on the master and nearly all jobs are builds to run upon dedicated
slaves, which we will set up in an upcoming lecture for labels.
I'll set this to master so only builds targeting the master will be able to run here.
In this lesson, we updated the Jenkins instance with all the latest packages and walk through the Getting
started wizard and made a couple of configuration changes related to builds on the master.
In the next lesson, we will create the slave instances that will later attach to Jenkins as build nodes.

--- Build Node Instances, Part 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Build Node Instances, Part 2 ---

Welcome.
In this video.
We're going to finish up the setup of the build node instances or slaves that will be used by the Jenkins
master to perform builds By validating the creation of those instances with the last builder we logged
into Still open.
Let's see how the launch script is doing.
We can use the tail command to show the last few lines of the file.
Let's do that now with the cloud init output log tail space slash var slash log slash cloud init dash
output dot log.
For some reason, somewhere within one of the nodejs installs or one of the corresponding packages,
there is a strange error.
It might clear up by the time you watch this, but even so, I know the launch script hasn't completed
running yet.
We can adjust our tail command to monitor the file and output new lines in real time.
Let's run the same command, but this time add the dash f option before the file name.
Now, instead of returning to the terminal, it hangs waiting for more file content to display.
After a few moments we should see a few more lines appear.
Eventually the file will stop updating and you should see the final lines.
Look something like this to exit out of the tail command type control C, which should return you to
the terminal prompt.
Now I'm going to create another terminal session so that we can check out the other builder instance
as well.
Jump back over to the Lightsail page and grab the IP address of the other instance and then log in.
Let's quickly check the end of the cloud init output log tail space slash var slash log slash cloud
init dash output dot log.
We could also use less a walk through the entire file, less space and then the path to the file again
while within less you can use the arrow keys to navigate up and down and the space bar to page downward.
Once you're done reviewing the log file, exit out by typing the letter Q, then we can do the same
thing on the other instance.
Now that launch script has completed running on both new instances.
Let's check out what stuff got installed where we can log in as root.
Sudo space su space dash l.
Then go to the usr local directory.
CD space slash user slash local.
Then if we display all the files and folders here.
L l.
We should see a lot of the tools.
The launch script installed here.
Many of the tools are installed into specific directories with symbolic links to shorter names.
For example, we have a symlink maven that points to the specific version of Maven installed using the
script.
Of course not everything is installed here, but a lot of the downloaded software was.
Let's try a few commands, the spot, check the tools while we're logged in here first.
NVN space dash version that gives us the Maven version installed then groovy space dash version that
does the same thing for the groovy programming language.
TerraForm Space version that gives us the version of TerraForm and Packer.
Space version does the same for Packer.
Since the NVM init script was included in the root bash login script, we should be able to use the
same NVM command to check out the installed versions of NodeJS in the space.
LS.
This lists all the installed versions of NodeJS along with their alias names.
Here are a few version commands for the nodejs related tools NVM version that gives us the version of
the active NodeJS version which should be the same as node space dash dash version.
We can also check the version of NPM.
NPM space dash dash version.
Let's check a few of the nodejs packages.
Grunt space dash dash version for the version of grunt installed Webpack space dash dash version for
Webpack in G space dash dash version for the AngularJS command line interface.
All right, let's do the same thing for the other build node instance.
Log in as root sudo space su space dash l then go to usr local CD space slash user slash local.
Now let's spot check a few of the same and some different tools.
Packer space version, then terraform space version.
Then let's check on git git space version and then Maven MVN space dash version.
All right, let's look at the Mvvm and NodeJS NVM space.
LS that all?
Looks good.
NVM space version.
Okay.
Node space dash dash version.
Looks good.
NPM space dash.
Dash version.
So far so good.
Grunt space dash.
Dash version.
Same as before.
Let's try a new one.
Gulp Space dash.
Dash version.
Great.
One more new command.
Ionic space dash.
Dash version.
Awesome.
Finally, Cordova Space Dash.
Dash version.
If this command asks you for telemetry information, answer however you like.
Then you should get the version number back.
I think that's enough.
The spot check for now.
All right.
Let's see if the Jenkins user account was set up on each instance.
Exit out of the root session and instead log in as a Jenkins account.
Sudo space su space dash l space Jenkins.
The prompt should update to reflect that you are now the Jenkins user.
If we pwd we see that we are in the slash home slash Jenkins directory and we can cat the bash rc file
to see the last few lines include the initialization of NVM.
We can issue the same commands as the Jenkins user in VM space.
LS to list the installed versions of NodeJS and MVN space dash version to show the installed version
of maven.
In the other terminal session.
Let's do the same once logged out of the root account.
Exit Log in to the Jenkins user account.
Sudo space su space l space Jenkins.
We can walk through several of the same steps, checking the home directory location, listing the files
and folders here, and printing out the contents of the bashrc file and then test nvme nvme space ls.
Anyway, I think that's enough to test the Jenkins user on each system.
Let's exit out of both Jenkins user and the main login for each instance.
Exit and then exit.
Let's try one more check for the Jenkins user.
Let's try to connect via SSH using the private public key we set up the launch script.
Should have copied the authorized keys from the main ubuntu account into the Jenkins account we created
with the script.
To really test this out, we need to attempt to connect via SSH directly from our local system.
Once back to our system within our terminal.
Use the previous command to connect via SSH, but not add the Jenkins and the at symbol in front of
the IP address and then use the dash I followed by the SSH key used with the Jenkins slaves.
Your command should look something like this.
Now press enter.
P.w.d. should be slash home slash Jenkins.
If everything goes well, you should log in directly into the Jenkins account on the builder or slave
instance.
We can confirm this with the Whoami command.
And once done exit out.
Let's try the same with the other instance.
With the other instance.
Once everything is confirmed working exit back out to the local system while logging back in.
The welcome screen greeted us with some information about the packages needing to be updated.
Let's take care of that now.
Let's log in to both instances, but as the normal Ubuntu user, which is normally how we log in.
Once there assume the root user sudo space su l as we've done in the past, the new instances already
need package and operating system level patches.
Since we've done this several times already, let's step through this a bit faster this time.
For each instance, let's refresh the repository list app, git space update space dash y.
Then apply any pending upgrades APT get space upgrade space dash y.
While that happens, let's start the process on another terminal session.
Assume the root user refresh all the apt git repositories.
And upgrade independent packages.
I need to watch each session for possible required user input like configuration change prompts.
Like we've seen before, the kernel level packages are held back on purpose.
Let's force their upgrade by calling install with the specific packages.
Run the update command again, select the hell packages and install those packages specifically APT
get space install space dash y space followed by the package list copied.
Let's do the same thing on the other terminal session.
We should have a few configuration prompts to deal with here as well.
So keep an eye on the terminal sessions for your needed input.
Once all the updates have been applied, exit out of both instances, exit and then exit.
With all the updates applied, let's make sure that we're running with everything loaded fresh by restarting
each builder or slave instance on the Lightsail interface.
Expand out the vertical three dots to access the instance menu and then select reboot for each instance
we need to restart.
Like we've seen before, this will appear to happen almost instantaneously, but we know it takes a
few moments for everything to be available once again.
Let's try to connect to the builders or slave instances again.
If you try too soon you'll get a connection.
Refused error.
Just wait a bit longer this time and then the connection should work.
Let's confirm the other instance is up and running again as well.
In both cases we should no longer have any pending package or security updates waiting.
Once done, let's exit out of each instance and return to our local system.
In this lesson, we finished creating our Jenkins slave instances or builders that will receive the
commands to run our builds from the Jenkins master.
In the next lesson, we will install a few additional plugins that were not installed earlier.

--- Jenkins Plugins ---

Welcome.
In this video, we're going to install a few plugins that were not already installed during the getting
started wizard earlier.
I'm currently on the Lightsail page.
Now let's jump over to the Jenkins web browser tab and log in.
Let's start off by updating and installing a handful of plugins that might not be installed as part
of the default set earlier from the Jenkins dashboard.
Go to manage Jenkins and then manage plugins once on the updates tab, I have a plugin that needs to
be updated since there might be others.
Let's do a quick check now.
Once that's done, select all and then click the download Now button.
This will install the latest version of those plugins plus any required dependencies.
Once all the plugins have been downloaded, check the box to restart Jenkins.
After a few moments, Jenkins should return.
Find your way back to the manage plugins page to continue.
Once back, go to the available tab and let's look for several plugins we don't already have installed.
Let's start with the deploy to container plugin.
Use the filter search box and type deploy.
That should reduce the results down until we can easily find that plugin.
Check the box next to the plugin name.
We can continue searching for more plugins and the check will stay in place until we install all the
plugins together.
Next, search for NodeJS and then select that plugin.
Now search for Maven.
We want the Maven integration plugin.
Now search for config space F.
That should be enough to find the config file provider plugin.
Search for gradle.
Well, it looks like that plugins already installed.
Search for groovy and get the groovy plugin.
Search for analysis space SEO, which should be enough to find the static analysis collector plugin.
If I search for v i.
O.
L, I can quickly find the violations plugin as do the same for PMD.
Textile.
And find bugs.
Finally, I want to find the environment injector plugin.
Simply type I and J in the search.
You'll notice this plugin currently has a warning.
We will still get this warning, although we will be using a good known version with all the plugins
checked, even though the ones you can't see right now.
Click on the download Now button as we've done in the past, this will be the safest route to go once
everything's downloaded.
Restart.
Jenkins.
Actually I forgot one plugin Green balls, which is highly subjective.
I like using the green balls plugin.
The simply turned a blue success balls to green from the available tab.
Search for green, select the green balls plugin and install without restart.
Once done, return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson, we took a few moments to update and install a few plugins that were not already included
earlier.
In the next lesson, we will update our configuration by telling Jenkins where to find various build
tools on the build nodes once they're attached.

--- Jenkins Global Tools ---

Welcome.
In this video, we're going to update our Jenkins configuration with the build tool locations for our
build nodes once they're attached.
I'm currently on the Jenkins dashboard.
Let's go to manage Jenkins, then global tool configuration.
This is where we will tell Jenkins about where to find the build tools our Jenkins master will use for
builds.
There are two primary ways to set up technologies programming languages, and build tools for Jenkins,
either dynamically or statically.
There are trade offs to each way.
Dynamically would mean that you would allow Jenkins to install the required tools upon demand.
The main cost is a little upfront time to install the tool if it isn't already available on the build
node being used.
There is also a slight risk that the installation could fail and thus fail the build.
Also, this requires there be a Jenkins plugin that knows how to download and install the required technology.
Your build requires and being associated with that Jenkins project.
An advantage to this approach would be that it would be easier to install new versions of those tools
as the corresponding Jenkins plugin adds support for it without reprovisioning the build nodes or recreating
them from scratch.
However, then it becomes harder to script the lockdown set of available tools in an infrastructure
as code sort of way.
Statically associated tools are build tools or technologies that are already pre-installed on the build
node being used.
Jenkins already doesn't need to know they exist per se.
As long as you can access them via the command line or in a shell script, however, we can tell Jenkins
about them with the plugins that support this and that can provide some advantages or additional build
options.
The Jenkins Global Tools provides for configuring either tool setup or both.
For this lesson, we need to log in to one of the build node instances so we can grab the paths to the
specific tools or technologies.
Take one of the build node public IP addresses and then log in via SSH.
I'm able to use my up arrow, which in my bash history happens to be one of the build node sessions
once logged in.
Let's start by looking for the Java path on Ubuntu.
This should be someplace under slash user slash lib CD slash user slash lib.
Let's list the files and folders here.
Now let's look for a folder that likely has the Java virtual machines.
I found the JVM folder.
That's probably it.
Let's go into that folder and see what's in it.
Looks like we have a folder and a symlink to that folder.
This is probably the actual JDK location we need to use.
So let's go into that folder and make sure.
CD Space Java dash eight dash Openjdk dash AMD 64.
If you have a different folder name, go into that folder.
Let's see what we have here.
LOL.
Great.
This looks like the main folder for the Java development kit or JDK.
Get this folder path.
Copy that path to your clipboard and return to Jenkins once back on Jenkins on the global Tools page,
click on Add JDK under the JDK section.
Jenkins will initially think you want to add one dynamically, but let's change that by unchecking the
install automatically box which gives us the Java home field.
Provide the Java eight or whichever major version of Java you have in the name field and then paste
in the JDK path location into the Java home field.
I think the way Git is installed will be fine as long as the git command remains on the system's path
for the Jenkins user, which it should be.
Another tool we can associate with Jenkins is Gradle.
We haven't used Gradle yet, but we might, so let's set that up.
Based on our launch script, Gradle should be available at slash user slash local slash gradle, which
is actually a symbolic link to the actual version of Gradle installed.
We can confirm this back in our terminal.
Let's do the same thing for Groovy.
Following the same pattern.
Groovy is available at slash user slash local slash.
Groovy.
Ant is also set up in the exact same way.
Available at slash user slash local slash ant.
Likewise.
So is Maven.
Slash user slash local slash maven.
Finally, we can set up the various versions of NodeJS.
We can flip back and forth to set up each version of NodeJS accordingly.
You can give each one a name as you see fit.
I'm naming them according to their code names and in parentheses putting their version range.
I'll end with the NodeJS latest, which points to the latest stable release installed.
Once I have set up all the NodeJS versions, we can save our changes.
So far in this lesson, we walk through getting our build tool location configured within Jenkins.
In the next lesson, we will finally attach the build node instances to Jenkins so we can start using
them for builds.

--- Add Credentials ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Attach Build Nodes ---

Welcome.
In this lesson, we're going to attach our build node instances to our Jenkins master.
So far we have created an Nginx secured web proxy that serves https traffic to our Jenkins master.
We have recently created to build node instances and we have added the private key needed to authenticate
with those build nodes.
Now it's time to connect the Jenkins master to the build node instances.
I'm starting off on the Jenkins dashboard and now that we have the SSH credentials item set up, we
can now proceed to attaching our first build node or slave to the Jenkins master from the dashboard.
Go to manage Jenkins and then go to manage nodes.
Here is where we will create and manage our build nodes associated with Jenkins.
In fact, we already have one set up by default.
The Jenkins master itself is considered a build node.
However, we configured it to only be used when explicitly referenced by Jenkins job to add a new build
node, click on the new node menu item.
Once on that page, give the node a name.
I'll call this builder.
One Permanent agent is the only type of build node available right now.
Of course, like most things in Jenkins, other types of build nodes are possible via the right plugins,
but as it turns out, this is actually what we need now.
Click okay to proceed.
Once on the node configuration page, the name field is already provided carrying it forward from the
previous page.
Give this node a reasonable description.
The number of executors can be a bit of trial and error, but I recommend going beyond no more than
two times the number of CPUs or cores available in this case.
I know the build node instance only has one virtual CPU.
I'll set the executors to two.
Think of the executors as the number of concurrent threads the slave can handle at once.
Too many executors will overburden the slave system and actually the performance will be slower than
fewer executors and requiring the builds to queue up the remote root directory is the location where
to perform the builds on the slave system.
Typically I set this to the home directory.
We will use the log in to the slave system, which is slash home slash Jenkins.
I could use another location as long as the log in user has full permissions in that directory.
Labels are how Jenkins jobs can be associated with specific slaves.
While I advocate making generic build nodes, especially when they are physical or virtual machine based
instances, it is a good idea to give your build nodes reasonable labels.
You can think of labels as tags or short names for the build nodes.
I like making my labels based on the technologies found on those build nodes, but any reasonable system
will be fine.
Each individual label can be separated by a space.
For example, Maven Space Java.
Space Packer.
Space TerraForm.
Space Builder.
Of course, I installed a lot more stuff on the build nodes than these, but this will just get us started.
Also, I like including a more generic label.
In addition to the specific technologies, usage refers to how to use the slave or build node, they
can either be exclusive, which means that the Jenkins job must specify the matching label for the slave
in order to be used, or they can be non-exclusive which Jenkins will consider the slave available to
perform any build.
The launch method refers to the connection or communication method to establish a link between the Jenkins
master and the slave system.
SSH is what we need for this slave in the host field.
Put the private IP address of the slave instance.
The key thing is consistent.
Let's make sure we use the IP address for the Jenkins builder one here.
Hop back over to lightsail if needed.
And remember the grab the private IP address and copy that to your clipboard.
Paste that value into the host field.
And Jenkins, since we already set up a credentials item, we just need to select it from the dropdown.
Of course, this all needs to match for this to work, just like when we connected via SSH from our
local system.
If the Jenkins master is unfamiliar with the system it's attempting to connect via SSH, you will be
prompted to verify this is okay.
However, you have no way to accept this validation step during the connection process within Jenkins.
Instead, you can choose to tell Jenkins to ignore the fingerprint check in the host key validation
strategy.
Just choose the last option, which is the non verifying strategy.
If you want, you can expand out some advanced options.
If you know what you're doing, you can make adjustments here.
Let's leave the rest of the form alone, leaving the blanks or defaults for everything else.
Now click save to add the new slave configuration.
The Builder one node is now listed, but it shows offline.
That's because we have to wait until the build node has successfully logged in and established a connection
to the remote slave system.
If things go well, this should happen fairly quickly.
It's just not instantaneous.
Click on the Builder one item and let's check it out.
That takes us to the Node Status page, which provides some details about the build node.
By now, the build node is actually attached and ready to provide resources to any build as needed.
Once on this page we also have all the labels associated and any jobs directly associated with the spill
node.
We can click on the log menu item to see a log of the connection process of this build node.
Looking at the log, we notice a few things.
First, the very last line says the agent has successfully connected and is on line.
Second, near the bottom, Jenkins does check for a Java runtime and then deploys a jar file to the
slave instance.
Jenkins then runs the jar file as an executable Java program.
This is the actual Jenkins agent program, and it basically takes over communication between the master
and the slave from this point forward.
Let's return to the Nodes table page.
Great.
Now that we have successfully added our first Jenkins slave agent or build node to the master, let's
add another one.
Click on new node like we did before and give this one a reasonable name like Builder two.
Since we've already set up a build node, we can use that as the basis for this one.
Select copy existing node and then specify builder one to copy from now click okay.
Once on the node configuration page, adjust the description field accordingly.
Now we just need to update the IP address in the host field.
Everything else should remain the same.
Hop back over to lightsail and go get the private IP address for the Jenkins builder two instance.
Copy that address.
And then return to Jenkins to update the host field.
Once done, click save.
We should land on the agent status page.
If we're quick enough, we can catch the authentication process by clicking on the log file for the
agent while it's still connecting.
Looks like I got here just in time to see a successful final step in establishing the connection to
the slave system.
We can now return to the main node management page and see the table with the master and to build node
slaves attached and some details regarding their connections.
Now let's jump back to the Jenkins dashboard.
One last thing before we move on.
Let's check out the Jenkins Home directory for each slave on each of our slave instances.
Head back over to your terminal program or git bash on Windows and log in to the first Jenkins slave
instance.
Once logged in, assume that Jenkins user so you can go directly into the home directory for that user
and then list the files and folders found here.
We should see the remoting jar, which is the actual agent jar file and executable Java archive.
That is the agent program needed by Jenkins to facilitate the build interactions on the slave system.
There are also a handful of configuration or temporary folders in support of Jenkins or the agent processes.
After that, we can exit out.
And do the same thing in the other slave instance server.
And after looking at the other server, we can exit out back to our local system.
In this lesson we attached both our slave instances as build nodes within our Jenkins master and we
inspected the file systems of those slaves after a connection was established.
In the next lesson, we will refine our agent configurations by adding an environment variable.

--- Update Build Nodes ---

Welcome in this lesson.
We're going to update our build nodes in the Jenkins master.
I'm starting off in the Jenkins dashboard.
We have just added our slave instances as Jenkins build nodes within our master.
However, we aren't done yet.
While we set up the Jenkins slaves correctly, I did forget to add an environment variable.
That's okay because that allows us to update our existing build nodes, which requires us to reconnect
for any updates to take place.
Let's return to manage Jenkins and then manage nodes.
Once on that page, go to the first build node and then click configure Under Node properties.
We need to check the item environment variables which will expand out to allow us to add a name of a
variable and its corresponding value.
We just need to add one variable named nvm underscore dir which will point to the directory where NVM
is installed on our build node, which is slash user slash local slash nvm.
This is needed since Jenkins uses a non interactive shell to log in and connect to the slave instance
which skips the normal shell init scripts like the bash RC file.
When every build happens, this environment variable and its value will be made available to any shell
commands that need it.
Once the environment variable has been added, click save to save the changes to this build nodes configuration.
Of course, this change won't take effect immediately.
Instead, we need to stop or disconnect the build node and reconnect for the environment variable to
be available for the builds click disconnect from the side menu.
You'll be prompted to provide a reason for disconnecting the build node which you can put anything you
want here and then click yes to confirm taking the build node offline.
Once back on the build node status page, you can click the launch agent button to attempt reconnecting
again.
This takes us to a page with our build node connection log.
After a few moments, we should see the familiar successfully connected line.
Now return to the build Node status page.
From here, click on the system information item on the side menu.
This will list out some information about the target system.
This build node is attached.
One bit of information would be the table of environment variables available to any builds performed
on this slave.
If we look carefully, we should see our specific environment variable we set up in the configure page.
Here it is nvm underscore dir which points to slash user slash local slash nvm.
Now that we have this working for our first build node, let's apply the same configuration for the
second build node.
Return to the list of build nodes and go into builder to item.
Configure check the environment variables item under node properties.
Specify nvm underscore dir for the name and slash user slash local slash nvm for the value.
Finally click save.
After that we need to disconnect.
And then reconnect by launching the agent.
Once reconnected, validate the new environment variables listed in the System Information page.
Once done, return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson, we updated the build node configurations to include the environment variable and then
restarted each build node to verify the change took effect.
In the next lesson, we will increase the security by implementing a verifying host strategy while connecting
the Jenkins master to each slave.

--- Host Verify ---

Welcome In this lesson.
We're going to update our build nodes to use the host verify strategy for increased security while connecting
to our Jenkins master.
I'm starting off on the Jenkins dashboard.
Well, since we are connecting our slave instances that are accessible over the open internet, we should
secure things up a bit by validating the connection to our slave instances.
Now, starting out on the Lightsail Instances page, I'm going to be jumping back and forth between
the instances and the terminal.
First, let's log in to the Jenkins master instance via SSH, grab the public IP address of the Jenkins
master instance and head over to the terminal or git bash on windows to log in.
Ssh.
And then your IP address once logged in, assume the Jenkins user sudo su dash l Jenkins.
We can confirm this with who am I?
We need to attempt to log in via ssh from the Jenkins master to each slave instance.
We don't actually need this to be successful.
Just the attempt to add the server fingerprint.
That's all we need.
Let's hop back over to the lightsail and grab the private IP address of the first slave instance Jenkins
Builder one and then use the SSH command to attempt the connection ssh space and then the private IP
address.
Of course, since we don't actually have the private key on this server's file system, we won't be
able to make a successful connection.
But that's okay.
I only want the server's fingerprint added to the known host file.
Yes, I realize there are other ways to accomplish this, but this is the simplest.
Now let's do the same thing for the other slave instance.
Grab the private IP address for Jenkins Builder two and then attempt the same thing with that IP address.
Once again, we get a permission denied, but that's fine.
Now go to the SSH folder CD space dot ssh.
Tell us.
And then we see the file named known underscore host.
Let's output the contents of the file.
Cat space known underscore hosts.
We should have a couple entries since the SSH command added the server fingerprints.
Regardless of the ability to complete the login attempts, which is all I really wanted to accomplish.
For now, you can exit out of the Jenkins master terminal sessions now that the SSH configuration with
the Jenkins user account on the Jenkins master has verified fingerprints for its slave instances, we
can update our Jenkins configuration to a more secure host verified strategy.
Head back over to the Jenkins server in your web browser and then go into manage Jenkins and then manage
nodes for each slave node.
We need to update the configuration and reconnect.
Let's start with builder one once on that node configuration page for the host Key Verification strategy
Field Change the value to known host.
File verification strategy and then click save.
Before moving on, let's test this out.
Click Disconnect.
Provide whatever reason you want and then click Yes.
Once Builder one is offline or disconnected, click on Launch Agent the Reconnect.
After a few moments, we should get the familiar success messages indicating we are back in action.
If I scroll up, I see near the top that we attempted to connect via SSH and that Jenkins is able to
verify via SSH.
The host key matches the entry in the known host file.
After all that, let's do the same thing for builder two.
Go to configure update the host key verification strategy field change the value to known host file
verification strategy and then click save.
Disconnect.
Confirm.
And launch agent.
After the successful connection, we can see the same host key verification message as before, which
confirms everything still works.
Just we are more secure.
Now that we're all done, let's head back over to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson, we made one last update to our build node configuration in our Jenkins Master.
We improved security by validating the host fingerprint as the Jenkins master connects to each slave
instance.
In the next lesson, we will actually test our build node process by using the newly added slaves,
by creating a simple freestyle job that will run on the build nodes.

--- Project Labels ---

Welcome.
In this lesson, we will create a freestyle job that will validate all the tools installed on our Jenkins
slaves or build nodes, run it from our Jenkins master and review the results.
In doing so, we will learn about associating projects with specific build nodes using labels.
I'm starting out in the Jenkins Bootcamp course GitHub repository, then go into the AWS Lightsail scale
folder, click into the validate-build-server.sh file.
This is a batch script that I wrote to validate all the tools got installed correctly on the build servers.
The script starts out by initializing NVM, which is used later.
The actual variable defined here is assumed to be available to the build node.
We took care of that in a previous lesson.
Really the majority of this script is simply asking where certain tools are installed, all using the
which command and then asking each tool for its version number.
Effectively, this confirms each tool is accessible on the systems path for the Jenkins user During
the build process.
If you want, you can spend some time diving into this script once.
Ready, Go into the raw version of this file and copy its entire contents into your clipboard.
Now let's head back over to Jenkins from the dashboard, click on New Item and then create a new freestyle
job called Validate Dash Build Dash Node.
And then click.
Okay.
Once on the configure page, go down to the build section and create a new execute shell.
Build step.
Then in the command field, paste in the contents of the script, which is still being your clipboard.
That's basically it.
Click Save and land on the project status page and then click on Build.
Now to manually trigger a build.
After a few moments, you should end up with a successful build.
Since I have the green Balls plugin installed, the green ball indicates the build success.
Clicking on that ball takes us directly to the console output for the build so that we can inspect the
results.
We can take a few moments to review this build.
The build was triggered by the currently logged in user admin account and the build happened on the
remote build node builder too.
Of course this might show up on builder one in your case.
This is important.
I actually didn't need to tell the job or project which slave the use.
Jenkins just randomly assigned the build to an available agent and build node since there was no restriction
placed on the Jenkins project and each build node was configured to be used as much as possible.
That is non-exclusively, since both are build nodes are set up exactly the same way either one was
able to service this project's build.
Let's scroll through this output and see the tools, their paths and the version numbers accordingly.
Of course.
Also look out for any problem areas.
Since Jenkins did not detect any failures in the output of the script, the final build result was success.
Let's return to the project status page if I trigger the build again.
And monitor the output as it builds.
I see the build has returned to the same build node builder two.
In my case.
But that's because Jenkins has a preference for running a build on the same build node as the previous
run if there's capacity.
It's possible that I just happen to end up on the same build node.
Let's try that once more.
Again build or two to force the issue.
We need to explicitly tell this project to build on another build node.
Go to this project's configure page and then under the general section, find the option that says restrict
where this project can be run.
Checking that box allows us to specify where to run the builds in the label expression field type in
the name of the build node to pin this project.
If I start by typing Bu, I'm given a list of available labels that start with that.
In this case, both names of the build nodes.
Actually the names of the build nodes are given to you automatically as a label expression.
There's no need to specify them in the node configuration for labels.
I'm going to select builder one, since that will force the builds to happen there instead of builder
two.
You might need to trim any trailing whitespace for Jenkins to see the selection correctly.
In your case, select the builder opposite of the one the project picks automatically now save the changes
and return to the status page.
Let's build once more.
And review the output.
This time the build ran on Builder one.
In my case, just as the label expression specified.
Great.
Let's make one last change.
Return to the configure page and adjust the label expression this time specify builder.
This is a label associated with both build nodes and Jenkins tells us this under the expression field
save build again one last time and review the build output.
Once again, we are back on builder two.
Of course it's possible you'll end up on a different build node.
For now, we're done.
So let's return to our Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson, we created a freestyle job that validates all the tools installed on our Jenkins slaves.
Ran it from our Jenkins master and reviewed the results, making use of the label expressions.
In the next lesson, we will perform the same job in parallel on all slaves at once by creating and
running a matrix job.

--- Matrix Project ---

Welcome.
In this lesson, we will create and run a matrix job that will be used to run a build on both slaves
at once.
Our current Jenkins project, a simple freestyle job that runs a shell script, confirms we are able
to execute builds on a remote slave server.
However, the way this project works, it can only run on one slave or build node at a time.
And if we use generic labels or no labels at all, Jenkins will prefer the same build node over and
over again, provided there's availability.
A script like this one to verify each slave instance was set up correctly needs to run on all build
nodes and preferably at the same time.
As it turns out, there's a plugin for that and it's already available on our Jenkins instance.
If you need to jump back over to the script and make sure the contents are still in your system's clipboard.
Then from the Jenkins dashboard, go to new item.
I'm going to name this validate dash all dash build dash nodes.
Now look for a project type called Multi Configuration Project.
This allows you to create jobs that will work across multiple configurations and build nodes at the
same time.
If we allow it.
Click okay to advance to the configure page under general check the item execute concurrent builds if
necessary.
This allows multiple builds to run at the same time.
For this type of project we have a special section called Configuration Matrix where we define all the
different ways we need to run this.
Build the axis is the way to configure those different ways.
I'm going to choose slaves.
Doing so provides us a list of slaves or build agents to specify by label or by name.
Expand out the individual nodes and then select both slaves Builder one and Builder two.
Now jump down to the build section and add an execute shell build step and then paste in the contents
from your clipboard, which should be the full verification shell script.
Click Save to advance to the status page for the project.
Once on the status page, you'll notice two items under configurations one named builder one and two
accordingly.
They each have their own build history and are managed by single project configuration.
Click Build now to try this out.
While the build happens, both items under configurations will flash, indicating they are both building
at the same time.
After a few moments, both items should turn green along with the single build item under build history
going into the first and only build history item that build status page shows both configurations associated
with the build and their status.
For me, their combined time took about 14 seconds.
We can dive into the first configuration item builder one and see it took 12 seconds.
We can also check out its console output and confirm it ran on the builder one slave.
Let's do the same for the other configuration item.
Builder two It took 13 seconds.
For some odd reason, this build took one second longer than the other one.
Either way, it confirms they both ran at the very same time and the total time was 14 seconds.
The Jenkins master probably needed an extra second for coordinating and updating the project's history.
Again, going to the console output confirms this.
Ran on builder two.
Great.
Now that we have confirmed this project type worked, we can now return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson we ran a matrix or multi configuration Jenkins project in order to run our build node
verification script on both slaves at the same time.
In the next lesson, we will run a more real world project by setting up and running a Maven project
on our newly set up distributed Jenkins Infrastructure.

--- Maven Project, Revisited ---

Welcome.
In this lesson, we will use the Maven project we have set up in the past to show a more real world
example, building on the slave instances or Jenkins build nodes.
Since we have basically covered how to set up a Jenkins project before, I won't spend too much time
on that, but we do need to walk through the steps again.
For this lesson, you need to open up a web browser tab and log in to your own GitHub account.
Since I'm already logged in, I'm going to use this link on GitHub to open the repositories page in
a new tab.
Then go to your copy of the Time Tracker repository and copy the clone URL to your clipboard.
Once back on Jenkins, create a new item and name it Time Tracker.
Select Maven project and click okay.
Once on the project configuration page, jump down to the source code management and select git.
Now paste the clone URL, which should be in your clipboard into the repository URL field.
You can leave everything else under that section the same and now jump back up to the general section.
Here we can go back to the GitHub page and copy the browser's address to the repository into the clipboard
and return to Jenkins.
Check the item GitHub project and paste the clipboard contents into the project URL field.
This will provide a useful GitHub link back to the remote repository from our Jenkins project pages.
Now go down to the build section.
Leave the root POM alone.
And specify clean space package.
Space Findbugs.
Colon Findbugs.
Space Checkstyle.
Colon Checkstyle.
Space Ppmd.
Colon PMD.
In the goals and options field, this will run those specific goals and targets within Maven, which
in addition to the main build sequence, will also run the static code analysis tool.
Jump down to the post build actions.
And choose publish combine static analysis results.
And leave all items checked, save the project configuration and once back on the project status page,
let's make one last update.
I want to specify where to build, click on configure and in the general section, check the item,
restrict where this project can be run and this time type maven in the label expression.
Jenkins should tell you that there are two build nodes available for this project.
Great.
With that done, click save.
Now we can try out our build, click build.
Now, since this is a new maven build, Maven will take a bit longer to run than our other examples
in this section.
We can see this in action by clicking on the status bar for the active build.
This is great.
We're able to see the build in action.
Confirming the slave instance has access to download whatever it needs for Maven after downloading a
bunch of stuff.
I see some tests execute and finally we have the entire Maven project completely done, hopefully ending
with a success message and status once the build is complete.
Return to the project status page.
Now if I return to the build console output page and ask for the full log.
We can see this build was ran upon builder one.
We can also go into the build status page.
And see the similar information.
This bill took 54 seconds on Builder one.
Let's return to the Project Status page and build again.
This time the build was much quicker.
If we go into the build status page, we can see this build only took 34 seconds also on builder one,
since both builders specify Maven as labels and builder one has capacity, it was preferred to run the
build.
This can be especially helpful with Maven projects since each build node manages their own local maven
repository, which is like a local cache on each build node.
If the build were to happen on Builder two, the build would likely take closer to a minute to run at
least for the first time on that build node.
Well, we're done for now, so let's return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson, we set up and ran a Maven style project on our distributed Jenkins setup, confirming
that job ran its build on a build node that matched the label expression for Maven.
In the next lesson being near the end of this section, we will tear down as much of the Jenkins infrastructure
as we can.

--- Build Node Reduction ---

Welcome In this lesson, I'm going to reduce the number of slaves associated with our Jenkins master.
If you're building a proof of concept development or testing type of Jenkins setup, you might not want
a lot of static slaves associated with your Jenkins master at all times.
In those cases, you might want to trim back the slaves to save on costs in AWS.
I'm going to start by removing a slave out from under Jenkins.
Mainly, I want to show how quickly Jenkins will notice this Jump over to Lightsail from the instance
tab.
Find Jenkins builder two and from the options for that instance, delete it.
Of course we will be prompted to confirm this.
Yes.
Delete it.
Great.
Now let's hop back over to the Jenkins from the dashboard.
Refresh or reload your browser.
Jenkins should already detect the build node.
Builder two is offline since we delete that instance instead of just stopping it, there's no point
keeping this build node configuration around on Jenkins, so let's clean that up.
Go to manage Jenkins and then manage nodes.
Again here we see the particular build node is offline, which is indicated by the little red X icon.
Also, if we go back into the build Nodes status page, we see an exception regarding an unexpected
termination of the channel.
Basically, Jenkins lost the connection and that's how it reports that event.
There is a red message at the top saying the connection was broken.
We do have the option to launch the agent again, but this would only be helpful if the connection was
lost due to configuration error or network issue.
Something temporary.
Trying to launch the agent is to no avail.
If you're just replacing the build node or just need to do some work on it without any activity on it,
we could just mark this build node as offline.
This saves the build node configuration in Jenkins without attempting to connect any more until we reconnect
later.
Of course we completely terminated the slave instance, so that's permanent.
There's no point keeping this build node configuration around.
Click on Delete Agent to remove this build node configuration permanently from Jenkins.
Of course, we'll be prompted to confirm this action.
Click Yes to continue.
Once we do that, we're back on the nodes table with only the master and builder one listed.
The build executor status area has been updated, no longer showing Builder two.
Great.
Now let's return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Now that we have reduced the number of build nodes associated with Jenkins, we aren't completely done.
The multi configuration or matrix project is configured to reference to build nodes by name.
Let's update that job now.
Go into the validate all build nodes project.
You can see here that it still refers to both build nodes since we no longer have a builder two available,
the any builds would never completely finish since it would be waiting for a build node that no longer
exists.
Let's test this out.
Click on Build now.
The build runs and it appears to run just fine at first.
While the green ball shows for Builder two.
It never really started.
Build two never completely finishes.
If we return to the Jenkins dashboard, we will see the build is running on the master.
That's because the multi configuration job manages the overall or parent job process at the master level
while performing each build configuration on the respective build nodes defined also in the build.
We have our projects build for builder two waiting.
If we move the mouse over to this waiting item, the message tells us there are no nodes with label
builder two.
Since we know this build will never happen, we need to abort or cancel the build.
Of course we need to confirm this action.
This will allow the parent build for the multi configuration project to finish.
Now return to the project.
Build number two shows a gray ball indicating the build was aborted.
Of course, this is only half true, but Jenkins doesn't have half status balls.
Okay.
I think I've proven the point here, so let's go fix it from the project status page.
Click configure.
And jump down to the configuration matrix section, expand out individual nodes.
Really, we don't actually have to do anything here.
Visiting this page reads the current state of Jenkins and presents all the current available options.
Just master and builder one Right now Builder one remains checked.
All we have to do is just save to update the project.
Once back on the status page, we now have the default as the configuration name since we only have
one build configuration item.
Now, if we run build now, we should be able to complete the process and the build will build a run
on the one remaining build node set up with everything set up correctly.
Let's return to the Jenkins dashboard.
In this lesson, we removed a slave instance, updated the build node configuration on Jenkins and fixed
the multi configuration project accordingly.
In the next lesson, we will tear down things even further by backing up our infrastructure and then
terminating the rest of the instances, leaving only the Nginx server running.

--- More Clean Up ---

Welcome in this lesson.
Since we are nearing the end of this section, I want to show how to tear down this type of Jenkins
infrastructure in AWS to minimize cost while not using it.
Of course, backing up what we might want to restore later on.
To be fair, if you are building Jenkins out for a production system, then you might just want to watch
this lesson instead of following along.
However, if you are building a proof of concept development or testing type of Jenkins setup and you
plan not to use this configuration for a while, then you can dramatically reduce your monthly cost
by shutting down what you can and restore later when you're ready to resume using it.
I'm starting out on the main Lightsail interface on the Instances tab.
We currently have three instances left the Nginx secured web proxy, the Jenkins Master and one remaining
Jenkins slave which I have called Jenkins Builder one For this approach.
I don't want to delete all my instances because I don't want to lose my static IP address that I have
set up with a domain name record that provides a nice user friendly name to the Jenkins server.
In this distributed setup, however, the static IP address actually points to the Nginx instance,
not directly to the Jenkins master.
Because of that, we can delete both the Jenkins slave and the master instance and leave the Nginx server
running as is.
Granted.
Any traffic that goes to it will be met with an error page, but that's okay.
We were planning on tearing down everything anyway.
Also, since the nginx instance is the least expensive instance plan, it won't cost that much to keep
it around since we get charged by the hour for unattached static IP addresses or we have to give them
up.
I think this is a fair price to pay considering I'll probably want to come back to this setup in a few
weeks or perhaps a month or two.
Of course, your situation will be different if you plan not to use these systems for shorter periods,
say a few days, then the cost savings might not be worth the effort anyway, since I'm not sure when
I'll resume working with this Jenkins infrastructure and I like showing all my work, I'll take you
along with this journey with me, including the restoring everything in the next lessons.
Let's start off by backing up the instance we plan to delete and for best results, we need to stop
each instance first.
I'm starting with Jenkins Builder one Go to that instances detail and click on Stop.
While we wait.
Return to the Innocence Page.
And do the same thing for the Jenkins master instance.
Once both instances are stopped, we can create a snapshot backup of each one.
Return to the Jenkins Builder one and go to snapshots, update the name to something more meaningful.
I'll use Jenkins builder saved that way.
I know this isn't just any backup.
Now click Create Snapshot.
While waiting, let's do the same thing for the Jenkins master.
Go into that instance.
Snapshots.
Give it a similar name and create the snapshot.
After a few minutes, both snapshots should be complete, which we can monitor them from the overall
snapshots tab at the lightsail top level.
While we wait, let's check on the storage pricing.
Lightsail has pretty good documentation on one of the frequently asked pages.
There is a question and answer regarding Lightsail snapshot costs.
Like most of AWS Lightsail snapshots are a consumption based pricing currently at $0.05 per one gigabyte
stored per month.
That means for both instances, since they are 60GB each and yes, we are charged for the full 60GB
of the image and not the amount used on the disk.
That is a total of 120GB of storage costs, which comes out to $6 per month for our backups.
We will come back to that in a moment.
For now, if we check on our snapshots, hopefully they're done or at least close to being done once
they are done, we will expand out their details to confirm Once both instances are backed up via snapshots,
we can safely delete those instances, return to the Instances tab and use each instances.
Option menu to select the delete option.
Let's start with Jenkins Builder one Triple dots Delete confirmation page.
Yes.
Great.
Now for the Jenkins master.
Same thing.
Triple dots.
Delete confirmation page.
Yes.
We should be left with only the nginx instance if we attempt to access Jenkins now after refreshing
our web browser provided we aren't working off a cached copy, Nginx should eventually respond with
an error page.
Great.
Let's return to the Lightsail main page.
At the peak of this section we had four instances, three at the $10 a month level and one at the three
and a half dollars level.
That's about $34 per month.
Round it up plus any taxes?
Honestly, that's not bad considering what we're getting and what the cost could have been if we were
hosting this on prem, especially if you had to purchase new hardware up front and possibly the labor
costs for anyone needed to assist with setting this up.
However, for some, even $34 a month is still a lot.
In an earlier lesson, we reduced our cost a bit by getting rid of one unneeded slave instance and then
updated our Jenkins configuration accordingly.
That saved us $10 a month at that point.
So now we're down to $24 a month.
Now both the Jenkins master and the remaining slave instances terminated.
We save an additional $20 a month.
But in order to do that, we had to incur a potential $6 a month in snapshot storage costs.
Since we are keeping the $4 a month Nginx instance around to hold on to that static IP address.
And the snapshots cost $6.
We're looking at about $10 a month total to keep things like it is.
There are two possible alternatives, but both have their issues.
First, we could tear down everything and recreate it when we're ready to continue.
While it took a while to get to the finished state, I was explaining each step in great detail, plus
any additional time needed for whatever reasons.
In reality, if you don't mind spending about 20 or 30 minutes to recreate everything from the scripts
I've provided with validation and configuration on Jenkins, it might be worth saving that $10 a month.
Granted, you would lose that static IP address and that could chew a couple of days for DNS to completely
catch up with a new static IP address.
In any case, that might be worth the trade off.
Second, if you have a very new account, you might consider moving over to the main AWS account.
Some of the resources might be covered by the free tier for the first 12 months of your account.
Of course, if you're using an account older than a year, that won't save you much.
Also, the larger instances are still not free, but the Nginx server could be as long as your account
remained eligible.
The major downside is the significant learning curve that comes with the rest of AWS.
But in the long run that might be where you're headed anyway.
In this lesson, we backed up the instances we're likely to restore in the future before deleting them
to save on costs.
In the next lesson, we will walk through restoring the Jenkins infrastructure from the backups taken
in this lesson and making the required adjustments since they will be given new IP addresses and host
keys.

--- Restore Part 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Restore Part 2 ---

Welcome in this lesson.
We're going to finish the restoring of our Jenkins infrastructure.
We backed up in a previous lesson.
In the last lesson, we restored the instances needed, and in this lesson we're going to update the
configuration needed to hook up everything the way it once was.
In the previous lesson, we updated the Jenkins master and both slaves.
Since we restore them from backups, however, enough time has passed that we may need to also update
the Nginx proxy as well.
Let's start off with the terminal program or git bash on windows and log in via SSH to the nginx proxy
instance using the domain name for Jenkins ssh space build and then the domain name.
Once logged in, perform the same processes we already walked through with other instances.
Assume the root user.
An update.
Any pending packages?
Force the install of any packages held back.
And finally reboot the instances from the Lightsail interface.
Once the Nginx instance finishes rebooting, log back in via SSH.
And then return to Lightsail in your browser.
We will return to the terminal in just a few moments.
Back on the main instance page with all four instances set up and ready to go.
When we restore the instances, we got the default firewall rules applied to those instances.
So we need to fix that first.
For the build nodes.
We only want to use SSH, which uses the port 22.
Go to Jenkins builder one, then go to the networking tab and then down to the firewall.
Remove all the rules except for the SSH rule and then save the changes.
Once done go to Jenkins builder to.
And do the exact same thing.
Remove all the rules except for SSH and then save with the firewall rules updated for the builders or
slave instances.
Let's update the master instance firewall rules too.
Once on the networking tab or firewall rules table for the Jenkins master, replace the Http rule for
a custom rule for port 8080 and then save the change.
That's the default port for Jenkins, which we will need accessible for our nginx proxy to reach.
While we're on the Jenkins master page, let's grab the private IP address so we can update our Nginx
proxy configuration to point to the new location for Jenkins from the networking page.
Copy the private IP address to the clipboard.
Now return to the terminal which should still be logged in to the Nginx proxy instance.
Assume the root user sudo su dash l then go into the nginx directory CD slash etsy slash nginx.
Now let's list the files.
L l.
There should be a script called update dash proxy which has been downloaded during the previous lesson.
You can try calling it without any parameters and it will tell you how to call it correctly.
Looks like it takes two parameters.
First being the domain name and second being the private IP address of the Jenkins master instance.
Now let's try that again, providing the parameters the script wants.
Dot slash update dash proxy dot h.
Then your domain name which mine is build dot Jenkins dot training and a space for the next parameter,
which is the private IP address which should still be in your clipboard paste in that value as the second
parameter.
With that done, press enter to run the script.
And we didn't go over the contents of the script, but you can check it out on the GitHub repository.
However, the script basically reapplies the web proxy configuration file by replacing the template
values for the domain name we're using and the private IP address, Nginx will be correctly set up as
a proxy that forwards all traffic to our Jenkins master instance.
Once it's restored, if everything goes well, we should see a success message near the end.
The script also will restart Nginx, so the configuration change can take immediate effect.
Let's see if we can now reach our Jenkins master again using our domain name.
Return to your web browser tab.
We've been using the access Jenkins.
If it's been a while then open a new tab in your browser and return to the Jenkins master using the
https URL that we have been using earlier in this section.
In either case, try refreshing the browser page to see if Jenkins is accessible.
If the web proxy is updated correctly with the new private IP address, you should be greeted with the
Jenkins login page.
Let's log in to see if Jenkins is actually working again.
Once back on the Jenkins dashboard.
It should have our previous project set up like before.
In a previous lesson I removed the configuration for the second build node, so we only have the one
and it's currently offline.
We need to tell Jenkins about the build node's new private IP addresses.
However, before I do that, let's take a few moments to update Jenkins.
In particular, any out of date plugins?
So go to manage Jenkins.
Then manage plugins.
While on the updates tab, click the all link to select all plugins and then click on the download Now
button.
Once all the plugins that need to be updated have downloaded, click the box for Restart Jenkins and
wait for Jenkins to complete the restart process.
You will either land back on the installing plugins page, the Jenkins dashboard or a login screen.
Regardless, return to the Jenkins dashboard.
Just updating the Jenkins build node configuration with a new IP addresses isn't going to be enough.
Since we're checking the host key for security reasons, we need to update the known host file on the
Jenkins master first.
From the networking tab of the Jenkins Master Instance page in Lightsail.
Grab the public IP address so we can log back in to the Jenkins master via SSH.
You might need to exit out of the nginx instance first.
Ssh.
And then the IP address.
Once logged in assume that Jenkins user sudo su dash l Jenkins.
We could list the files here to see we are in the home directory of the Jenkins user on the Jenkins
master.
Within the Jenkins home directory, go to the SSH folder.
CD dot ssh.
Then list the files here.
LS.
There should be a known host file here.
Delete it.
REM known underscore hosts.
We need to add back the private IP addresses of the build nodes or slave instances so Jenkins can securely
connect to them.
We can do that by attempting to connect to them.
It doesn't matter if we're successful, since the very act of attempting will be enough for the SSH
process to get the host key fingerprint and prompt us to add it to our known host file.
Grab the private IP address for builder one.
An attempt to switch to it from the terminal currently logged in to the master instance.
Great.
We're prompted if we want to accept the host key for builder.
One type yes to continue.
Of course the SSH attempt will fail since we don't have the SSH key we need at the filesystem level.
Again, not important for what we need.
Once done, return to the lightsail instance and grab the private IP address for builder two.
Do the same thing.
Attempt to connect via SSH and accept the host key when prompted.
Great.
That's all we needed to do.
We can confirm we now have a known host file within the SSH folder and listing the files here.
We should see our known host file here now with a known host updated on the Jenkins master.
We can configure the build nodes with the new private IP addresses and attempt reconnecting our Jenkins
slaves.
Once again return to the Jenkins Builder one page and grab the private IP address again.
Then hop back over to our Jenkins dashboard.
Once there, go to manage Jenkins.
Then manage nodes.
Replace whatever is currently in the host field with the new private IP address of Jenkins builder one
which should still be in your clipboard.
Then click save.
You'll end up on the build node status page, which might contain a scary red message.
Don't worry about that too much right now.
Click Launch Agent to attempt to reconnect the build node that should take you to a page containing
the log showing the process of the connection attempt.
Eventually, if things go well, we should end up with a success message like this.
With a first build node back in action, let's reconnect the other build node.
Since we reduced our build node configuration to just the one, we need to copy that configuration for
our second build node.
Click new node from the side menu on the new node page.
Give the node a name builder too, and then copy from Builder one click.
Okay to continue to the node configuration page, which should have most of the values from the builder.
One Build node configuration.
Now return to lightsail and go to the Jenkins Builder two page.
And copy the private IP address for that instance.
Once you have that value, return to the Jenkins page and paste the value in the host field and click
save.
Once on the status page for Builder two, you can click on the link to take you to the logs showing
the connection attempt.
Like before.
If things go well, you should end with a success message like this with both build nodes reattached
and ready for use, let's update the validate all build nodes job.
Go to that jobs configuration page.
And select both build nodes under the configuration matrix.
Once done, click save.
And then build now to test out the changes.
The Matrix job should run both build nodes at the same time.
After the build.
Take a few moments to review the results.
It should show the build happened on both instances.
Now that we're done, I have one final task which is optional.
We can clean up the instance snapshots that we took to restore our infrastructure.
Of course, you're welcome to keep it around as a backup, but to save money on storage costs, I'm
going to delete those snapshots.
Now return to Lightsail and go to the snapshots page for each snapshot, click on the vertical dots
and choose Delete Snapshot.
Once both snapshots are gone, we can return to the main Lightsail Instances page.
In this lesson, we finished restoring our Jenkins infrastructure so we can continue working.
In the next section.
We will update this setup to be a bit more dynamic, which will help reduce costs.

--- Jenkins Incompatibility with Java 9, 10 and 11 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Known Issue: Maven Projects Fail with POM Parse Error ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Maven Repository Server plugin causes Build Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Resolve Problem with MacOS Upgrade Breaking Git (new!) ---

Welcome, in this video, I'm going to show the common
issue that happens with Git, as provided by Apple,
after the yearly Mac OS upgrade and how to fix it.
Every year Apple has provided a significant
update to Mac OS. This year is no exception.
However, each time that happens Git,
along with other utilities provided by Apple's command
line developer tools, get messed up in the update.
Now this doesn't happen with the
occasional patches throughout the year;
for example going from 10.13.3 to
10.13.4 won't cause any issues.
This seems to happen only during the more
significant code name changing updates
like upgrading from High Sierra (10.13) to Mojave (10.14)
Prior to the upgrade my installed version of Git,
which is included with Xcode or via the command
line developer tools, worked perfectly fine.
Now, post upgrade, I have some issues.
Let's check it out.
With my terminal open I still have the Git binary,
or at least a symlink on my system's path.
"which git",
which is located at "/usr/bin/git".
If Git is located at another location then you
aren't using the Apple provided Git binary.
Now, when I go to check the version of Git installed,
"git version", I get an error message like this.
I've encountered this error each year
that I performed the Mac OS upgrade.
By now my only surprise is that Apple
still hasn't fixed this issue.
All right, time for the solution.
It's basically reinstall the command
line developer tools with this command:
"sudo xcode-select  --install"
Actually the sudo part is optional;
Mac OS will simply prompt you for your credentials
before proceeding if you don't use sudo.
Now press enter to continue.
Now I'm prompted for my password, which is
required to run any command using sudo.
After that you'll be prompted to
either get Xcode, not now, or install.
Of course the middle option simply cancels this process.
The first option sends you to the Mac App Store
to download the latest version of Xcode,
which will include the command line developer tools.
The last option, install, will just install the
command line developer's tool part of the code suite.
That is the option I normally use, since I don't use Xcode
and there's no point in downloading a multi-gigabyte
application I'm not planning to use otherwise.
If you want to install everything, go right ahead.
You'll get Git and other tools updated that way as well.
For everyone else just click install to continue.
After that you'll be greeted with a license agreement dialog.
Feel free to read it if you so desire.
Otherwise continue by clicking on "Agree".
Now the installer will download and re-install
the latest copy of the command line developer
tools compatible with your system.
This will likely take several minutes, but I'll
speed things up with the magic of video editing.
Great. Once complete, click on the done button.
Once back to the terminal we should able to check
Git's version and not have an error this time.
"git version".
Awesome, it looks like we are back in business.
Well this really completes this video, but I
wanted to address one other topic while I'm here.
Sicne I'm certain someone will ask or pointed out
that's regarding alternative ways to install Git.
Yes it is true you can use package managers
like homebrew or MacPorts to install Git.
However they have their own issues, especially
if you do plan to use Xcode at any point.
This is why I generally recommend sticking with the flavor
of Git provided by Apple, it just keeps things simple.
If you already have your favorite package
manager and you never plan to use Xcode,
or at least you're comfortable overcoming the
conflicts, then you can certainly go that route.
You are likely to end up with a slightly newer version of Git,
but not enough to make a meaningful difference in daily work.

--- Final Thoughts ---

Congratulations, you've reached the
end of this course on Jenkins.
We have covered the core concepts, including
how Jenkins is designed and is architecture.
We learned about projects or jobs, which contained
the instructions for building software projects.
We looked at both the anything goes freestyle
projects and the more specific Maven projects.
We learned about the important role of plugins within
Jenkins, that is they provide nearly all functionality.
We also walked through several hands-on examples in Jenkins,
starting with an overview of the user interface
and how to install and configure plugins.
We also created several projects, which we
expanded upon by adding code quality analytics
and finally deploying to an application server.
And, of course, we ended our Jenkins examples by enabling
security and refining it with the role strategy.
Please check back periodically for
updates or improvements to this course.
I encourage you to take part in the course discussions.
I monitor these discussions daily and I try to answer
any questions not getting immediate attention.
With that I encourage my students
to contribute to the discussions.
They are designed to be a forum
where students can help each other.
I also send out periodic notices or announcements
regarding upcoming office hours, updates of the course,
and general information about Jenkins and
continuous integration and delivery practices.
Please take a few moments to leave
an honest review for this course,
so others can benefit from your thoughts and insights.
If you have other feedback or questions, please
reach out to me via the direct messaging feature.

--- 32 vs 64-bit Windows ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to take a
quick look at our operating system platform.
To see what type of system we're running, go to the
Start Menu and right click, then go to "System."
Once that screen displays, find system type.
This should tell you if you're
running a 64 bit or 32 bit system.
As we install software in support of this course
you will want to download and install the correct
version of any software we use in this course.
That means that if you're on a 64 bit system you
should download the 64 bit of any software we use.
Now that we are done looking at our system
information, let's close our settings window.

--- Google Chrome on Windows ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
download and install Google Chrome.
While the default browser for your system
will be perfectly fine for this course,
I have standardized on the Google Chrome web browser
If you want to follow along exactly, go ahead and
install Google Chrome, like we are about to do.
Use your system's existing web browser
to go to the Google Chrome web site.
In this case I'm using Microsoft Edge.
I'm going to close any startup tabs,
and then find the address bar.
Go to "google.com/chrome"
Once that page loads the Chrome Web site should
detect that you're already running Windows
and provide you the appropriate download button.
Click on that download button to
start the installation process.
We will be greeted with a Terms of Service, which
we need to agree to before we can proceed.
Go ahead and click on accept and install.
That should download an installer program, which
we can then run directly from our browser.
We may be prompted to confirm that we
really do want to run this setup program.
Click on yes to continue.
After the installation the Google Chrome web
browser should be automatically launched.
Let's go ahead and close the default tabs.
Closing the last tab will also close the browser.
Now let's close the old web browser.
Before moving forward I want to make sure that Google
Chrome is set up as both my default web browser
and is accessible from multiple locations on my system.
If I go to the Start menu, under "Recently
added" Google Chrome should be listed.
If I right click on that item I'm given several options.
Let's choose "Pin to start."
Right click on Google Chrome again, then
under "more," select "Pin to taskbar."
Great. Google Chrome is now available from the
desktop, the taskbar, and the Windows start menu.
Oftentimes when we launch Google Chrome, Chrome
will detect that it's not the default browser.
If that's true, Google will often provide us an
option to set Google Chrome as the default browser.
Click on this button to start that process.
That launches us into settings, where we
have the option to set our default browser
which is currently set to the
default Microsoft edge web browser.
If you click on that item you're given
several options. Select Google Chrome.
Of course Microsoft is going to give you one more
opportunity not to switch away from Microsoft Edge.
Select "Switch anyway."
Great, now Google Chrome is set up as our default web browser.
Let's close our settings window now.
Back in the Google Chrome web browser click on the
little menu item here, then select "Settings."
This takes us to the chrome settings page.
Let's scroll down and increase our default font.
To access that we have to show advanced settings.
Great, now let's scroll down just a bit,
until we see the "Web content" section.
We can change the combination of font sizes and the page zoom.
For me just changing the page zoom should be enough.
I'm going to select 150 percent.
That will instantaneously change
the content in the web browser.
So now let's resize or browser,
and then close our browser.
Let's relaunch Chrome to see if it kept our settings.
Great, It looks like it kept our settings.
We're done for now, so close Google Chrome.

--- Git for Windows ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to install Git for Windows.
we need to install the Git version control
system for our Windows operating system.
To do so, launch your favorite web browser.
I'm using Google Chrome.
Then go to "git-scm.com"
Once that page loads, right on the home page there
should be a nice large button to download for Windows.
Click on that button to download the Windows installer for Git.
Once the installer has finished downloading go
to the installer file from within the browser,
and then select "Open" to run this installer directly.
You will be prompted to confirm if you really do
want to run this program. Select yes to continue.
That will launch the setup wizard for Git for Windows.
On the license page just click "Next."
On the destination location page you can
change the location to anywhere you want;
however, for me, this location is perfectly fine.
Click "Next" to continue.
On the "Select components" page you can
customize the items that will be installed.
I want to keep everything here and I want
to make sure we install the desktop icon.
Now click next to continue.
This will be the name for the start menu folder,
again I don't have any reason to change
this so click "Next" to continue.
On the "Adjusting your PATH" page the first item will set
it up so that only Git Bash will work properly with Git.
The middle option, and the one I recommend,
will install Git to work in both Git
Bash and the Windows command prompt.
The last option provides even deeper integration by
adding some of the Unix based tools
to the Windows command prompt.
Unless you know specifically what you're doing
here I do not recommend this last option;
stick with the middle option, and then click "Next."
When given a choice between the SSL implementation
I like to stick with the open SSL library.
Click "Next" to continue.
This page is regarding how our line endings
for each of our files will be treated.
For the default setup for Windows we checkout
as Windows style and commit as Unix style.
That means any time you checkout a file, or do any editing,
Git will automatically change the line
endings to match the Windows system.
But, when it is time to commit,
it will commit as the Unix style,
which is the way that Git prefers to store any of it's files.
The last option is to checkout as is and to commit as-is;
basically we're not going to like Git do anything to our files.
And then the middle option, which is the
option I prefer, is to check out as-is,
that is regardless of how the line settings are
set up, and to commit as the Unix line endings.
That means eventually all my files that I
use with Git will use the Unix line ending.
This is a great option for cross-platform developers.
Click next to continue.
Regarding the terminal emulator I recommend using the MinTTY
Click next to continue.
For extra options I like leaving the default options as-is.
Then click install to begin the actual installation process.
Great, with Git for Windows successfully installed
we land on the last page of the install wizard.
For now let's uncheck the "View release
notes," then click on "Finish."
We can also close our web browser.
Great, we should have our Git bash icon on our desktop.
Let's go to our start menu, and "Git Bash" should
be one of the items under "Recently added."
Like we've done in the past, right
click on the item and "Pin to start."
Repeat the process to pin to the task bar.
Great, now we have easy access from
multiple locations in our Windows system.
Before we finish up let's verify that Git is
installed properly for all our command environments.
First let's start with Git bash. Double click to run Git bash.
Right now our default setup has very small
type, so let's fix that before we continue.
Click on the icon on the window, then
go to options. Let's select text.
That gives us access to the font
and text views for this window.
Let's change our font by clicking on select.
Let's use Consolas, and let's increase
the font a bit: let's try 24.
So, again, once we close that font dialogue we
should have it displayed as "Consolas, 24pt"
Click "Apply."
Doing so should resize the Git bash window.
Now let's click save to close the dialog.
While we're here let's verify that Git is installed.
Type "git", G-I-T; space; version; then press enter
The "git" command should respond with
the currently installed version.
Great. We can exit out of this terminal by typing exit.
If we went through the installation process properly
we should also have access to the Git command
from the windows command prompt and PowerShell.
Open up our Windows command prompt. The
text in this window could also be improved.
I'm going to do a similar process.
This time we're going to go to the font tab, we're going
to leave it as Consolas, and let's try 24. Then click OK.
Great, that looks a little better.
Now type "git version," then press enter.
Again the Git command responds with its current version number.
Now let's close the Windows command prompt, and
we'll try it one last time with PowerShell.
Again, let's make some adjustments to the font used.
Expand out the options, go to "Properties," then go
to the "Font" tab. Let's use Consolas, 24. Then OK.
Actually, let's tweak that just a bit more.
Depending on your system you may want to do the same thing;
it might take a little bit of trial and error
to find the best setting for your system.
We'll leave it at 24, but what we need is the layout
to change, for the window size is currently set to 41.
Let's change that to 30, see if that helps.
Click OK. Alright, that's much better.
Let's close PowerShell and open it up again
just to make sure the settings are correct.
Yep, looks great. Once again "git version,"
and, like before, the Git command responds
with its currently installed version.

--- Git Configuration ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to set
up the minimal configuration for Git.
With the Git bash terminal open, let's
type the following Git commands.
The first command will set the username:
"git config --global user.name";
space; and then, in double quotes, your name.
The "--global" is actually important on this command,
because it will save this configuration item, that is the
item named "user.name", in the global configuration file.
That's actually a bit of a misnomer, because the
global configuration file is at the system user level.
That is, it will only be for my user account on this system.
Double check the command, and then press enter.
The next item we need to set is
actually the user's e-mail address.
"git config --global user.email"; space; and
then, in double quotes, your e-mail address.
Again the "--global" saves the "user.email" entry
to the global or user level configuration file.
Double check the line and then press enter.
Great, now let's list our available
global configuration settings.
"git config --global --list"
This will list all our settings at the
global level, or actually the user level.
Both of our entries are listed.
The global configuration file for Git,
that is the user level configuration file,
is stored in a special text file called ".gitconfig," that
is stored in the root directory of your user's profile.
Let's check that out now.
Let's use the "cat" command, which will
simply print out the contents of a file.
"cat", then we'll use the '~' character to
represent the user's home directory; "/.gitconfig"
You should be able to use tab completion.
Now press Enter.
This is the contents of our "gitconfig" file as of
right now, since we only have two global entries.

--- Atom Installation on Windows ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
download and install the Atom text editor.
So far we have used Vi and Notepad for our text editor needs.
However, we don't need to limit
ourselves just to those two options.
I prefer using a fully featured text editor,
and my editor of choice is Atom.
to get started, let's open up our favorite browser.
Once your browser is open, go to "atom.io".
Once there, on the home page, it should
detect you're already running Windows,
and provide you a download button appropriate for your system.
Let's go ahead and click on the download button.
That will download the Atom set up installer.
Once the installer has finished downloading go
to the file and open or run from this location.
This will start the installation process for Atom.
Once the installation process is complete, the installer
will automatically launch the Atom text editor.
Great, let's close some of these default panels.
I'm going to uncheck the welcome guide, so
this won't pop up next time we launch Atom.
And I'm not going to send any stats back to the Atom Web site.
Once that's done, let's close Atom.
We can go ahead and close our browser as well.
While we're here, let's go ahead
and set up Atom to be available
in the various locations we
have some of our other tools.
Let's go to our start menu, and Atom
should be under recently added.
I'm going to Right click on it, and pin to start.
I'm going to right click on it
again, go to more, pin to taskbar.
And then, during the installation process,
Atom got automatically added to our desktop.
Great. These are the three locations I like
putting Atom, so that I can easily access it.
However, Atom also comes with a
command line tool called "atom".
Let's make sure we can invoke Atom from the command line.
Let's start with Git bash. Go to
your Git Bash, and start it up.
Simply type "atom", and then press enter.
Atom should be launched.
If you got an error message, then that means that the
"atom" command wasn't installed for some reason.
All right, let's close Atom again.
And let's exit out of Git bash
Since you might prefer to use the Windows command prompt,
or PowerShell, let's check those out as well.
Open a command prompt, and again issue the "atom" command
Like before, the Atom text editor should be launched.
Let's close it once again and exit the command prompt.
One last time, let's verify we can
access it from the PowerShell.
Invoke the PowerShell. Invoke "atom".
once again Atom gets launched.

--- Atom Configuration ---

Welcome, in this video, we're going to
tweak the Atom text editor's UI just a bit
Let's open up Atom from any of the locations with set up before
I'm going to adjust the window for Atom.
I like to cover a little bit more real
estate than what comes by default. Great!
Now I want to increase the font that
is used by default within Atom.
To do that, I need to edit Atom's stylesheet, which is
available from the file menu, then go to stylesheet.
Atom is actually based on HTML technology,
including CSS, JavaScript, and HTML,
which can be a little surprising, because
it looks quite like a native application.
However, what the implication means is that we can use standard
CSS syntax to make modifications to the Atom text editor.
The first setting I want change
is something called ".tree-view".
And we'll look at this a little bit later,
but the tree view is going to show up on the side and
typically would expose a file and folder hierarchy.
Within the ".tree-view" CSS class, which
is denoted by these curly braces,
We're going to use the standard "font-size" CSS property
to change the default size for that particular element.
Now I could give it a specific value, like 14 points,
but I like using relative sizing,
and that's expressed in "em"s.
I'm going to start with "1.25 em".
Now I'm going to go down to the "atom-text-editor" class,
and apply a similar value, but I'm
going to increase it to "1.5 em".
Again, using the "font-size" CSS property and using "1.5 em".
Now we can save this file by going to File, Save.
And, the moment we save the file, it immediately changes the
size of the font, making this a little bit easier to view.
Great, I think this is a good balance between readability
and the amount of text I can see on the screen at the time.
For now let's exit out of Atom.
We're going to configure the Git
integration for the Atom text editor
For this example, we could do this in either Git
bash, the Windows command prompt, or PowerShell.
For the remainder of the course, in cases where something
could be done equally as well in any one of those options
I'm going to usually use Git bash, unless there's something
specific I want to show you in one of the other environments.
Let's start up Git bash.
For this task, we can be anywhere in the Git bash environment;
it doesn't really matter, because these
will be global Git configuration changes.
Let's just make sure we can access
Atom from the Git bash terminal
Like before, Atom should be invoked
when we issue the "atom" command.
Great let's close that out.
Now let's use the "git config" commands to
associate the Atom text editor with Git.
"git config --global core.editor",
then, in double quotes, we can put the
command to invoke our text editor.
Now, any previous value we have here will
be overwritten when we set this value
So, we're going to use the "atom" command,
and I have done a bit of research, and I know
we need to specify an option called "wait",
and that's just going to tell the "atom" command to
wait for Git to provide the commit message special file
so that we can use Atom as our commit editor.
All right, with that line in place, press enter.
Now we can see this set with "git config --global --list".
And, we can try it out by using "Git config --global -e".
See, what this does is it opens the global config file for
Git, using the default editor as set by "core.editor".
If we invoke that, Git will load Atom with the
Git config file from our user's home directory.
Great, let's close out this file and then also close
Atom, which will turn us back to the Git bash terminal.
Now that we are done with this example,
we can exit out of the Git bash terminal.
We're going to configure Atom to integrate
with the Windows file explorer.
Let's go ahead and open up Atom.
Once Atom is open, go to file, then settings.
When the settings page opens, go to System.
On this page, were able to configure our
integration with our Windows system.
Check the box next to "show in file context
menus", and "show in folder context menus".
Alright, that's all; the moment we check
on these boxes our settings are saved.
Now, close the settings panel and exit Atom.
Now let's try it out.
We should be able to open up our file explorer,
and then navigate to one of our folders on our system.
I'm going to go into our user's home directory.
First, let's make sure that we can open a file
directly from the Windows file explorer using Atom.
Go to our "example.txt" file that we created earlier.
Right click on it,
And at this point we should have a pop up context
menu item called "open with Atom". Click on that.
This should open our "example.txt" file with Atom.
Great, now that we verified that, let's close that file.
On the side it will automatically
open the current working folder.
Let's make sure we remove this
project folder for our next example.
Once we've done that, close Atom.
Now, back in the Windows file explorer, right click anywhere
inside the folder, but just not on a specific file.
Now, in this context, click on "open with Atom".
This will open our current folder within Atom.
Great, now that that is opened,
we have our current folder, that
is our user's home directory,
listed in our tree view in Atom.
And this way we can go down and actually click on
a file that we've created earlier, "echo.txt".
Great, now that we've done that close our "echo.txt" file.
And, right click on the folder in our tree view
and remove project folder. Now exit out of Atom.
Since we're done with this example, we can
also exit out of Windows file explorer.

--- Java Installation on Windows ---

Welcome, in this video, I'm going
to walk through the steps necessary
to install the Oracle Java Software
Development Kit for Windows.
I'm going to go to my browser,
which I'm using Google Chrome, and
I'm just going to do a search for
"java development kit download".
And I want to look for a download link that looks
fairly official, it's gotta come from "oracle.com".
So either one of the top two hits,
that isn't an ad, should get us there.
So I'm going to click on the second
search result, which is "Java
SE - Downloads", that's part of
the "Oracle Technology Network".
So click on that link, and that should take us
to the downloads tab for Java SE downloads.
On this tab, it should feature the latest version of the
Java SE platform. In this case, it's Java 8 update 45.
You may see a different number, it may be a different update
number or it may be even a different version of Java entirely;
I recommend just getting the version
of Java that's displayed here.
Now I'm going to go over to the block that has "JDK", which is
the Java Development Kit, and click on the download button.
Go to the downloads section for the "Java SE Development
Kit", and select the item "Accept License Agreement".
Now, you will be able to download
the version of Java that matches
your platform. The two Windows
downloads are towards the bottom.
The "Windows x86" is intended for 32 bit versions of Windows.
The "Windows x64" is intended for 64 bit versions of Windows.
Since that's the version of windows that
I have, I'm going to select the 64 bit
installer. Click on the link to download
the 64 bit version of the installer.
Once the installer has finished
downloading, I'm going to open up my
options, and select "Open" to run the
installer from this location directly.
Windows will prompt to verify that
we want to install this program,
so I'm going to click on yes, and
that launches the Java Installer.
This installer is actually two in one; It will install
the Java SE Development Kit, as well as the JRE:
and the JRE is simply the run-time environment for Java.
So on the initial page just click on "Next".
The default values are fine, and the
installation path is OK as well.
So click on "Next". This starts
the actual installation process.
Great. so now we've entered the second
phase of the Java installation:
the installation of the Java JRE, which
is the Java run-time Environment.
Again, the destination folder is perfectly fine. So let's
just click on next. And now, we are installing the JRE.
Great, now that we've finished installing the
JRE and the JDK, click on the close button.
Now that we've installed Java, we
can close our browser. Now, let's
verify that Java is installed by
opening our terminal program.
I'm going to use Git Bash, but PowerShell or
the command prompt will work equally as well.
So from your command line environment,
type "java -version", then press enter.
Java should respond with the version of Java that was
just installed. Now that we've done that, we can exit.

--- Java Configuration ---

Welcome, in this video, I'm going to set
up the Java Home environment variable.
Some programs that use Java require a special environment
variable named Java home to exist in order to run.
Before we can do that, we need to
make sure that Java is installed. To
verify that, just open the command
prompt and type "java -version".
If Java is installed, it will respond with
the version of Java that is currently
installed. Now that we've done that,
we can close our command prompt.
Let's go find where the Java JDK is installed.
So I'm going to open up my file explorer.
File Explorer is sometimes called Windows Explorer in prior
versions of Windows. I'm going to go to the c drive,
and program files, which is where 64 bit versions of
applications are installed on the 64 bit version of Windows.
Going under there, I can see that I have a Java folder;
going into there, I have the jdk folder and the jre folder.
For Java home, we want the JDK version. Once we've
made it into that folder, click on the path bar.
And that will switch to the traditional path to this folder.
Control+c or right click and copy that value.
Now, while in file explorer, right click
on "This PC", then go to properties.
Once the system window loads, go
"Advanced system settings". That
will pop up the system properties
dialogue on to the "Advanced" tab.
Go to the "Environment Variables..." button. Once you click
that, you will be on the environment variables dialogue.
I prefer creating the Java Home variable
as a System variable. So under the
"System variables" section, I'm going
to click on the "New..." button.
Once the new system variable dialogue loads, for "Variable
name:" type the value "JAVA_HOME", using all capital letters.
Then, go to the "Variable value:"
field, and press control+v or right
click and paste the value that we
just copied from file explorer.
Double check that value, and make sure it's
the path to the Java JDK. Now click on OK.
Back on the "Environment Variables" dialogue, click "OK".
And again, "OK" on the "System Properties" Dialogue.
Back at the "System" window, we can close that window.
And now it's safe to close the file explorer.
Alright, let's test this out. Go
to the command prompt; we can use
the set command to echo the value
of a given environment variable.
Type "set JAVA_HOME" again using all capital letters.
Double-check, and then press enter.
JAVA_HOME is equal to the path to the Java JDK.
That's exactly what we want.
Great, now that we've verified that,
we can close the command prompt.

--- Maven Installation on Windows ---

Welcome, in this video, I'm going to walk through the steps
necessary to download and install Maven for windows.
I'm going to go to my browser, which I'm using
Google Chrome, then go to "maven.apache.org".
Once the Apache Maven Project website loads, on the left hand
side, under "GET MAVEN", there should be a download link;
click on that item. Once the download
page loads, scroll down to the
available download options, and for
Windows we want the "Binary zip".
Go to the column for the link, and
click on the link. That downloads
the entire distribution for Apache
Maven, at least the binary version.
Once the .zip file has completed downloading,
expand our options and select "Show in folder".
That option should take us to our downloads
folder, with our Apache Maven zip file selected.
With that file selected, right click on it, and
then chose extract all from the pop-up menu.
That will launch an extraction wizard, with the
first page asking us where to extract the files.
I like to place all my development tools in a common area.
Which I call "DevTools" off the c-drive.
This can be any location you want on your system, including
other drives. You just need to remember where this is.
Once you've either selected or typed
in the destination, leave the "Show
extracted files when complete"
checked, and then click on "Extract".
Once the extraction is complete, the extraction
wizard will open up the destination folder.
The destination folder should contain a folder within
it named after Apache Maven plus the version number.
Go into that folder, and we just need to make sure
that we have everything set up the way we need to.
While I'm here, I'm going to select the address bar,
which will normalize to a normal path to this folder.
Then control+c, or right click and copy, then, within file
explorer, right click on "This PC", then go to "Properties".
Once the "System" window loads, go
to "Advanced system settings". That
launches the "System Properties"
dialogue, on the "Advanced" tab.
At the bottom of that tab, click on the
"Environment Variables..." button. Once there,
we're going to create a new system variable
and edit the existing path variable.
Under, "System Variables" click on the "New..." button. For
the variable name type M2_HOME in all capital letters.
Then, in the "Variable Value:" paste in the value that
of the path to Maven, that we copied in the prior steps.
Control+v or right click, paste. Double
check the value and then click on "OK".
Now, within the system variables,
scroll down until you find the "path"
variable. Great, select the path variable,
then click on the "Edit..." button.
On the "Variable value:" go to the end of the value. You can
use the keyboard key "End" to go to the very end of the value.
Now, separate the path with a semicolon. Now, instead of
pasting in the path like we did in the previous step,
we're going to use the environment
variable that we just created. To
reference another environment variable,
we surround it with percent signs.
So %%, then jump back between the two, and let's
type in our environment variable: M2_Home.
Now let's advance the last percent, and tack on \bin. That
will tell the path variable to include the bin directory
underneath the location to M2_HOME. That's the actual
path to all the executables that are bundled with Maven.
Once we've done that, double check
our value, then click on "OK".
Once back to the environment
variables dialogue, click on "OK".
Again, on the "System properties"
dialogue, click on "OK". Now
that we're back to the "System"
window, we can close this window.
And, at this point, it's also safe
to close file explorer; and while
we're at it, let's close our browser.
Alright, well let's check it out.
I'm going to launch the Windows command prompt.
This process will
work equally as well with Git
Bash or the Windows PowerShell.
Once the command line has loaded, type
mvn, space, -version. Then press enter.
If Apache Maven responds with it's
version number and some other
information, then you know that
Maven has been installed correctly.
Once we've validated that, we can close the command prompt.

--- Jenkins Installation on Windows ---

In this video, we are going to download
and install Jenkins for Windows 10.
While there are other approaches, like putting
Jenkins in a virtual machine or a docker container,
running Jenkins directly on your system is
the fastest way to get to know Jenkins.
Let's start off by opening your favorite
web browser and go to http://jenkins.io.
Once the page loads, find and click on the Download button.
Right now, that pops up a couple choices;
the Long Term Support (or LTS) release
or the *Weekly* Release. If you are more
adventurous, you can try the weekly release.
For now, let's stick with the LTS release
since that is likely to be more stable.
Click on the down-arrow and select **Windows**
to download the Jenkins installer archive
specifically for our system. Once the
installer package has finished downloading,
click on the archive to open it and then run the program
contained within it to run the *Setup Wizard* for Jenkins.
On the Welcome page, doesn't have much
on it, so click Next to keep going.
For the Destination Folder, you can choose another
location, but the default works well for me.
Click Next. Now, click the Install button for
the setup wizard to start installing Jenkins.
You may be prompted to confirm you want to
install this software; click Yes to continue.
At the end, click Finish to close the installer.
Doing so, the installer will attempt
to launch the Jenkins homepage,
which may prompt you to choose a web browser to use for this.
Your web browser should open to localhost on port 8080.

--- Jenkins Getting Started ---

(English captions)
Either the first time you access
Jenkins at http://localhost:8080,
or immediately after clicking the
Finish button from the install wizard,
Jenkins will guide you through a getting started wizard
to further customize Jenkins before getting started.
On the first page, you will be given
instructions on how to Unlock Jenkins.
In my case, a specific, cryptic password
has been written to a text file
within the Jenkins installation folder on my system.
Simply copy the full path to that file and then
use your favorite text editor to open that file.
Copy the password text in that file and then paste the value
into the Administrator password field on this screen.
Next, we are prompted to customize Jenkins via plugins.
We will cover plugins in more detail later in the course.
For now, just click the Install
suggested plugins to get started.
Jenkins will automatically install and configure
the standard or recommended set of plugins,
along with any required dependencies. After that,
Jenkins will prompt us to create an admin account.
We will use this account most of the time initial
until we get to the security section of this course.
I'm going to call the username admin,
provide a password and then confirm it.
Use Admin Account for full name and
finally provide an email address.
Don't just make up an email address for this admin user;
you may need access to this email address later.
Once done, click Save and Finish
and then Start using Jenkins. Now, you
should be on the main page of Jenkins.

--- Starting and Stopping Jenkins via Windows Services ---

(English captions)
When we installed Jenkins, it was
installed as a Windows system service
which means the program is always running, and
will start again if we reboot our system.
Under the hood, Jenkins runs on top
of a small web server called Jetty
which is a light-weight Java web application server.
I mention that, because Jenkins won't
stop running when you close your browser.
However, we can tweak the URL in the browser to tell
Jenkins to restart or simply reload its configuration.
Make sure Jenkins is open in your browser,
then go to your browser's address bar,
and remove any trailing information
after the localhost and port number.
Then type slash restart and then press enter.
Jenkins will likely prompt you to
confirm if you really want to restart.
Go ahead, let's move forward with restarting Jenkins.
This restart URL trick
is handy to remember when you want to restart
Jenkins when Jenkins seems to need it.
When Jenkins refreshes, you might be
prompted to log back in to Jenkins again,
or you might end up on the Jenkins dashboard.
We can also restart Jenkins using the Windows service.
To do that, right-click on the Start
Menu and select Computer Management.
Once the Computer Management system
loads, expand Services and Applications,
and then click on Services. This will list all
the services currently setup on your system.
Let's orient our service panel and
browser window so we can see both.
Now, find the item named Jenkins and click on it to select it.
You can either click the Stop or Restart
links or right-click on the Jenkins item
to bring up the service pop-up menu and then
select Stop or Restart. Let's try out stop first.
After the service has been stopped, jump back to
your web browser and refresh or reload the page.
Your web browser should give you an error
message, telling you the page cannot be found.
The exact message will depend on your browser,
but the behavior is basically the same.
Back on the service panel, since
the Jenkins service has stopped,
you will have access to the Start link or
the Start item on the service pop-up menu.
Let's start things up again, click Start. Now,
in a few seconds, refresh the web browser again.
This time, you will either be meet with a page
from Jenkins telling you Jenkins is in the
process of starting up, or you will already be
back on the login page or Jenkins dashboard.
In any case, back on the service panel, you will
see the Jenkins service has started once again.
The restart menu item or link will stop Jenkins
and then immediately start it back again.
While you shouldn't have to start, stop or restart
Jenkins using the Windows service very often,
there are times when this is the only choice left.

--- Installation Notes for Windows 10 (Updated) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Bonus: Exclusive Student Discounts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
