

=== Introduction and Installation ===


--- Part 1 - Introduction ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from execute automation.com.
And welcome to part one of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp and all new video
series in automation.com.
Once again guys this is going to be a really, really useful tutorial because it's been a most requested
course by many that how Jenkins works and how to integrate Selenium automation testing with Jenkins
for both Java and C sharp programming languages.
So this course is for you guys.
All right, so let's get started.
So in this video we'll be talking about an introduction to Jenkins.
So this is a high level agenda of this course.
We are going to talk about what Jenkins is, how to install and getting started with Jenkins and understanding
and configuring Jenkins tools and working with the users for Jenkins, creating our first freestyle
project, working with Git and how to build and compile project with Maven and also working with a Maven
project for build, compile and test and also for Repo generations.
And also we'll be working on the pipeline project once again.
The pipeline project is going to be something new in Jenkins 2.0, so we'll be talking about that as
well.
And also you'll be working with the Maven project in Pipeline Project as well.
So whatever we saw in the freestyle, we are going to see the same in pipeline project as well and we'll
be working with the Dotnet project using the Freestyle Jenkins pipeline and working with the agent and
nodes Cross-browser testing, parallel testing and working with Dockers and much more.
So this is going to be a very, very high level agenda of this course, but this course is going to
be really, really going to span a lot of videos.
So surely this is going to be a big video course as well.
All right.
So first of all, what is Jenkins?
Well, Jenkins is a self-contained open source automation software, which can be used to automate all
sorts of tasks such as building testing and deploying softwares.
And Jenkins can be installed through native system packages, Docker or even run standalone by any machines
with runtime of Java.
So we have already discussed about Jenkins installation in Docker video series of Automation channel
where we just installed Jenkins and we saw how to work with Jenkins, but we really did not talk a lot
about Jenkins by that time.
But right now this is going to be an exclusive video series on Jenkins, so we'll be touching a little
bit on Jenkins with Dockers as well at the end of this course.
And you'll understand how to leverage the power of Docker containerization with Jenkins as well as Jenkins
is like a TFS, if you ask me as a layman question.
Well, yes, in many ways, since Jenkins is a continuous integration tool but still lacks many other
areas where TFS is much more broader than Jenkins, since TFS is more like a version control system
and requirement management system, project management system, automated build management system testing
and release management system and all of the above.
It is otherwise called as an application lifecycle management system.
But Jenkins is not an album, it is just a continuous integration system and it is going to be building
your project and deploying in different machines and performing a specific operation that you specify
in it.
Right?
But about TFS, if you want to learn a lot again, automation has got an exclusive video series in Automation
Channel and also in Udemy where you can learn about team foundation server and also build deploy test
with team foundation server a lot.
Well, we are not going to talk a lot of TFS here since the course is not meant to be for that.
As we have already discussed TFS a lot in other courses of automation channel.
As I already said rather, we'll be talking more about Jenkins here.
We are going to talk only about Jenkins and Jenkins and Jenkins.
We will be seeing how to do all the different operations that we saw in the agenda of this course during
the initial of this video.
So we'll have many more practical sessions than theory in this course, since this course is going to
be more like a hands on where we directly drill down into the Jenkins and we see how things work there.
Instead of seeing a lot of practicals as in as in like a slide as you are seeing in this video.
No, we are not going to do that anywhere.
All right.
So let's get started and see how things work.
So once again, guys, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 2 - Installation and configuring Jenkins 2.0 ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part two of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp video series.
And in this video we'll be talking about installing and getting started with Jenkins 2.0.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch part one, since this part is going to be
a continuation of that part.
All right.
So let's get started.
Software prerequisite before we start installing Jenkins itself.
So we need the following software installed before we getting started with Jenkins 2.0, something like
very, very simple specifications like Java latest version is good.
And also Jenkins var file.
So these are the two most important prerequisite software that we need to getting started with.
Jenkins And the supporting tools are going to be like Maven in Unit Nugget and Git.
So these are the supporting tools that we require for getting started with Jenkins 2.0 as a most important
prerequisite as well, because we will be working with these tools along the line with our course.
So please guys, if you have these very, very simple tools, you are pretty much ready to go.
But if you just compare a little history of how we installed or how we saw the prerequisite on Team
Foundation server, it is very, very huge.
You need to have a team foundation server specifically installed for a good performance in a Windows
server environment and you need to have a database server where the database server can be a SQL server
with analytics service enabled and text and search service enabled.
And you need to have a full blown SQL Server enterprise edition for a good result.
You cannot just have a express edition for that case.
So it was very, very huge requirement just for the SQL Server alone.
But if you see there are other requirements like hardware requirements and software requirement was
very huge in team foundation server because team foundation server, as I already said, is not just
a continuous integration tool.
It is really, really bigger and it's otherwise called as an application lifecycle management system.
So it is really huge then compared to Jenkins.
But just if you want to do a build, deploy and test, Jenkins is more than enough then going with team
foundation server itself because it does the job for you.
But for instance, even in the Jenkins world, if you want to go with creation of a test management
or if you want to create some kind of wiki, then you need to go with the confluence.
There is something called as Jira that you can purchase and you can just plug in with Jenkins and that
performs the operation for you.
Again, those are separate tools and you need to just configure them along with Jenkins to perform those
operation.
But, but Team Foundation server is really a full blown thing, right?
So as I already said, software prerequisite for Jenkins is very, very less compared to team foundation
server itself.
All right.
So let's not really talk a lot about that and let's get started with Jenkins itself.
So for that, I'm going to flip to Windows 10 Virtual Machine, right?
So this is my Windows 10 operating system.
It's a virtual machine.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to install the Jenkins right now into this machine.
So once again, as I said, the installation is pretty straightforward in Jenkins.
All you have to do is just go to Jenkins, and if you just hop over to jenkins.io, you can see that
within this website you can find how to install Jenkins itself.
So the current version is 2.3.2, which is an LTS and there is a 2.45 weekly release version as well.
So you can take anything you want.
So if I click this download Jenkins, you can see there is a LTS release and there is a weekly release
so you can take anything you want.
And basically there is like a var file you can download for Docker, FreeBSD, Gentoo, Mac OS Windows
and so many other versions you have.
Similarly, you have the Var file for the weekly release as well.
So you can take anything if you like.
But right now I'm going to take the LTS support version, so I'm going to choose the windows and if
I choose windows and if I click download it is going to download the file for me.
All right.
Seems like there is some kind of blocking by Google, so it's okay.
We can just see this is fine for me.
So I'm just going to visit this website and you can see that it is going to download the var file for
me.
So basically I can cancel this because I have already downloaded this and it is available right now
in my c colon of this machine.
So if I just navigate to that particular drive, there is something called as a Jenkins folder.
I just created a Jenkins folder here and I just put this Jenkins dot var file, right?
And as you already said, there is no database required.
All you have to do is just spin up this water file using Java.
That's it.
You're pretty good to go.
As I already said, we need to also have Java installed in our machine.
So if you want to check if you have Java in your machine, just hop over to command prompt and type
Java hyphen version.
You can see there is a version available.
So Java version currently I have is 1.8.0.
So this is the latest version I have.
So I'm just going to do this.
I'm just going to go to the E colon.
See Colin and Jenkins.
And here I can just go to the command prompt run as an administrator, because that will give me more
privilege and then I can just type.
Java hyphen Jar Jenkins dot war.
If I just hit that, you can see that it is automatically starting it as a web root for this particular
user home.
And there is something called as Dot Jenkins, so we'll talk about that in a minute.
But you can see that it is also creating a lot of things.
It's saying that failed to delete the temporary Winstone file.
Of course, there is no such file exists.
That's why it is failing and it is logging in and it is logging the initialization and you can see that
it is asking me that Do you want to allow this?
Of course I'm going to say yes so that it will set the firewall, else it will be blocking and it says
completed the initialization.
So everything is right now running.
But if you just go over here, you can also see there is something called as password.
So this password is automatically generated for you.
And this is something which you require while you start the Jenkins for the first time in your browser.
So I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to go to the chrome and let's type localhost colon 8080
and now you'll be greeted to Jenkins page.
You can see that the Jenkins is automatically loaded, by the way.
And here we go.
You can see that it says, Please wait while Jenkins is getting ready to work.
So right now it is initializing and it says Unlock Jenkins.
See, this is the password.
It is actually expecting us to be passed and the password is nothing but the password that we copied
from here.
So I'm just going to paste it and I'm going to hit Continue.
I'll never save it.
It is going to take a while because it is setting up a lot of things for you and it is asking whether
do you want to install some plugins which is suggested.
So basically you can just hit the install suggested plugins because those are really, really helpful
to get started with.
So I'm just going to download that.
It is going to take a while for me because the the virtual machine internet connectivity is pretty slow
in my machine at least.
And now just let's see behind the scene what is really happening.
See, it is actually going to the Hudson Model Update Center and it is downloading the plugins for us,
the folder plugins and timestamp or plugin pipeline plugin.
So these are the most important prerequisite plugins to be available for our.
Jenkins.
Right.
And if you just go over here, you can see there is something called as C colon slash user slash win10
slash dot Jenkins slash war.
And this is something very, very important.
So we'll see what this really is actually about.
So I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to go to the run and I'm going to paste this path.
I'm going to hit enter.
You can see this is where Jenkins is actually putting all the most important files, which is required
for Jenkins itself.
So this is like a database for Jenkins right now.
So it holds all the plugins.
Whatever you install right now, you can see that these are the few plugins which it has.
Once the installations are going on there, you can see that the plugins are automatically created for
you.
So Windows Slave plugin is something has been created and there are all the plugins, whatever that
you install is automatically going to pop up over here, right?
And similarly, whatever project that you create is also going to sit over here.
So it is going to create a folder where it's going to put all the repository of your project that you
compile and put right.
So those things will come back later.
But right now, just keep in mind that this Dot Jenkins folder is what is going to be a most important
folder for Jenkins.
So if you want to delete your Jenkins setup completely, just go back and delete this particular folder
alone.
You're good to go.
Jenkins is all new and it will start as a fresh start.
So if you compare the team foundation server, you will have a database dependency.
But here in Jenkins it is pretty straightforward.
All you have to do is just delete this folder.
You're good to go, right?
So it is going to take a while for me for downloading all the plugins, so I'll be back once the plugin
is installed.
All right.
Seems like the installation is done right now.
And now if we just try to there is one plugin failed, but it's okay.
And now if I try to refresh this page once again you can see that the installation is failed.
It just appears.
But it's okay.
I can just continue and you can.
It will ask you to create a first admin user.
So the admin user I'm going to create is going to be the admin and the password is going to be admin
as well and the username is going to be my name and I can just give my email ID if I want.
So I'm just going to give that and then I'm going to hit Save and Finish.
That's it.
So this is the complete installation and it will take a while and it will show you that.
Welcome to create your first.
Uh, oops.
I can just hit continue as admin and it will say that Jenkins is ready.
So I'm going to say start using Jenkins.
There we go.
So it will be showing you a greeting message.
Welcome to Jenkins and create a new job.
So that's it.
So this is the very super easy installation of Jenkins.
But right now the Jenkins is like a pretty plain and it has nothing meaning.
It just has the information on the Java.
But you don't have any information on the Maven or Git or NuGet or any other plugins that you have used
in your project to perform the build and compilation.
So in our next video, we'll quickly jump over and see how to manage the Jenkins using this particular
link and we'll see how to perform installation of different kinds of tools for Jenkins to perform the
operation of build and test.
All right guys.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Working with Jenkins 2.0 for Java based application ===


--- Part 3 - Configuring Jenkins 2.0 for Build+Deploy+Test ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part three of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch part two since this part is going to be
a continuation of that part.
So in this part we are going to talk about configuring Jenkins 2.0.
So what is this?
Actually, if you have watched our previous video, which is part two, we did the installation of Jenkins,
but we did not really configure anything.
We just installed the plugins and we created a user and we did a login in the Jenkins That's it.
That's the only thing we did.
But right now we are going to quickly see some of the most useful features that we can enable or understand
how Jenkins has so that we can use Jenkins for a large enterprises as well.
All right, so let's configure it.
So for that, I'm going to flip to our Windows 10 virtual machine.
So, so far in our previous video, we just did the installation of Jenkins.
That's it.
That's the only thing we did.
So I think there should be a timeout by now if I just do a manage.
Jenkins There we go.
It takes me to the login, so I'm just going to log in once again and you can see that we have our Jenkins
running as a Var file over here just to recollect.
Right.
And it also says that there is a problem with the GitHub plugin, which is okay.
So once you click this manage Jenkins, it will be bringing you to this particular page and you can
see there is a new version of Jenkins is available after I download the previous version.
So you can also upgrade that if you want, Right?
And now the one thing which I'm very, very interested in to show you is quickly see how we can do a
setup of our global security.
For if I go to the configure global security option over here, the second option, you can see that
it will show you information, something like enabled security, and you can set the NLP agent to this
particular port for instance, right now there is no NLP port agent.
But again, guys, the agent thing is something which will be discussing later in our course.
Just keep informed that here is where you can set the port for the agent to run the job for you in a
multiple machines, right?
So you can enable that over here and then you can also set the realm of the Jenkins For instance, if
you want to use Jenkins own database, which is what is happening right now, this option will be selected.
So if you want to delegate to a servlet container, you can select this option.
Or if you have your own local lightweight directory access protocol, you can set this Ldap option enabled,
right?
And similarly, you can set some other options like plugin manager, user browser for metadata downloads
and hidden security warnings, etcetera.
Right.
So these are some of the global security options which is available out of the box within Jenkins.
So it will enable you to use your own organization security using this Ldap option.
And now once again, let me leave this and if I go to the manage Jenkins again, you can see there is
something called as global tool configuration.
Very, very important option here because this is where we are going to do a lot of configurations.
For instance, if you're going to set the JDK path, you can set it over here.
If you have to compile a project from a GitHub, then you're going to use this guy, the git, right?
Similarly, if you are going to run the ant and if you want to set the installation path, you can set
it over here.
So these options, you can set it or if you have the environment variables set for these options already,
you don't really have to set anything over here.
So basically, even if the git dot x, it is searching from the C program files, Docker resource slash
bin or system32 or within this particular folder.
So it is looking for the git dot x and all these folder, but it did not find the particular x file
itself.
So again, this global tool configuration is very, very important because if you remember in our previous
slide we were showing the prerequisite tools to be installed for Jenkins.
We'll be doing that as well in our next video, right?
So these are some of the global tool configuration section.
This page is very important.
And then the last option, which I'm going to show you very quickly, is going to be this configure
system option.
This configure system option is again, very, very helpful because here is where you can actually set
a global configuration for your Jenkins For instance, if you want to set the password for your GitHub,
then you can set it over here and this password, you can use it across the.
Jenkins And similarly, if you can come down over here, you can see that there is a Jenkins URL, so
you can change that if you want.
And there is a GitHub server, you can see there is a GitHub server that you can add to connect with
your Jenkins and there is a Docker options.
Again, these things are something which we'll be discussing later.
And if you come down here, you can set the executable for the shell.
You can configure the emailing option so that you can send an email Once the build is being done or
once the testing is done, it will trigger an email.
Again, these things are something which we'll be discussing later in our videos of this course, right?
So these are some of the great things that you can configure or here in this particular page for the
configuration of Jenkins.
So these are some things just very interesting.
And the last option, maybe I forgot to say that is going to be the manage user.
So you can create number of users you want.
For instance, if you click this create user, this is the same kind of page that we did in our previous
video for creating the admin user, right?
The same kind of stuff here.
You can just add a user here and then you can set up permission for that user as well.
So all those things you can do using this particular page, using this manage Jenkins option.
And you can see there is something called as Jenkins own user database.
So basically it is running its own user database.
It's not something running other database like Ldap or something like that.
Right?
So that's it, guys.
Once again, this is a basic configuration options which is available in Jenkins just to showcase you
how the configuration options is available in Jenkins.
But we are really not configuring anything yet, but once we start digging into the build, deploy and
test, we will be using them a lot, right?
So once again, guys, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Working with Jenkins 2.0 for .Net based application ===


--- Part 4 - Downloading common Tools for Jenkins 2.0 and setting environment variab ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I'm from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part four of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about downloading common tools used for Jenkins 2.0.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch part three since this part is going to be
a complete continuation of that part.
All right.
So what are we going to talk about?
Downloading common tools used for Jenkins 2.0 in this video?
Well, as I already said in our part two of this particular video series, we saw some of the supported
tools that we need to have before we actually dive into building, deploying and testing our own project.
So some of the tools, as I already said, are like Git, NuGet and Unit and other plugins, right?
So these are some of the most important plugins that we need to have along with our Jenkins.
And these are some of the tools, external tools that can be configured along with your plugin.
So we are going to download that using chocolaty of Windows 10.
Well, if you ask me what is chocolaty again, chocolaty is something we have already discussed in our
automation channel a lot for downloading some of the packages for Windows 10.
Again, it's like a NuGet package manager for Windows 10, right?
Something like that, where you can download some of the most commonly used tool for your machine and
then you can start using it.
Well, let's quickly see this in action and understand how things work.
So for that, I'm going to quickly flip to Windows 10 virtual Machine and see how things work.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to open a tab here and I'm going to search for what is called as
chocolaty.
Chocolaty.
There we go.
Maybe there's a typo or here and there is something called as chocolaty.org.
So this chocolaty is actually a software management automation option, which is available for Windows
10, where you can actually download some of the most commonly used softwares.
So there are so many softwares available for chocolaty.
If you go to the package, you can understand, but before that we need to have to install this chocolaty
itself.
So for installation it's pretty, pretty straightforward.
All you have to do is just run this particular command to install the chocolate.
So I'm just going to copy this and you can see that we need to have this PowerShell get execution policy
to be set.
I guess it is not restricted right now.
So if I go to PowerShell, maybe I think I have disabled this already and now I can say get execution
policy.
It is restricted so it should not be restricted.
So get execution policy set execution policy.
I'm going to say as remote signed.
Sorry.
I think I should have removed this hyphen.
Should be removed.
Signed.
Right.
And then I have to say a for yes to all.
Now, if I get the execution policy, it's remote signed.
Right?
And now I can actually install the chocolate in our machine.
You can see it is getting the chocolatey package for us for this machine.
You can see that it is putting all the chocolates bin folder in the C colon programdata chocolate slash
bin.
Right.
And now if I just copy you can see what is this folder have, right?
This is the file which is actually contained in here.
And if you go to the tools folder, there are some of the already available tools like seven zip and
all those things, right?
So once you install some other packages, you don't understand how things work.
So basically I need a git package by now so I can just go to the packages link here for the chocolate
and I can search for what is called as git.
And you can see there is a git over here.
So this git is more than enough for me to install right now.
So let's take this chocolate choco install git.
I'm just going to copy that and I'm going to paste it over here.
I'm going to hit enter.
You can see that it is installing the git for us using chocolate.
Pretty straightforward.
All right, let's say yes.
So right now it's going to run the script for us.
All right.
So it has set the environment variable for us.
You can see that there is a environment var for the path.
It has also did the environment variable set and it has installed the git for us in the C program files
slash git.
So if you just navigate to this particular folder location, you can see there is a git for us in here.
So you can use this particular git for the installation, right?
For the referencing in Jenkins.
Similarly, you can install some other tools using this chocolatey, something like NuGet.
Something like here.
Right?
And similarly, you can install the N unit package from here.
So you can see there is something called as N unit, right?
So these are some of the tools you can install using the chocolate from this command line, Right?
So we will be downloading these packages from here as in when while we require them.
But as of now, just git is fine.
So I'm just going to be closing this particular window for now.
And as I already said, we were getting some problem while we went to this manage Jenkin.
And once we went to this global tool configuration, it couldn't point the git for us.
So right now we have a git.
So what I can do is I can just go to the git location and go to the bin folder.
We have a git dot exe, so I can just copy this path and now I can go to the instead of the name as
default, I can say git local and I can give the path over here double quotes, which is okay, there
is no such file.
All right.
So everything is pretty cool now, so I'm just going to save it right now.
You can see that we have a git available and we have configured that in the global tool configuration.
Right?
Similarly, we can configure the JDK if you have of course, we have a JDK.
I guess we have set the environment variable as well.
So if we go to the edit system, environment variables and if we just go to the environment variables
and oops, we don't have a Java underscore home path or here we have to set that as well, right?
So let's do this.
Let's create one Java underscore home, right?
And for the directory we actually have to give the C colon and there is a program files of Java and
we have a JDK.
Right.
And then I'm going to hit.
Okay, So this is going to be the Java underscore home.
And then within the path we can set the percentage Java, underscore home percentage slash bin.
So this will set the Java underscore home as well, right?
That's fine.
So now we have the JDK path set here and we can explicitly specify the JDK installation over here if
sometimes it doesn't work.
Right.
So I'm just going to close this for now.
So this is how all these things can be configured using the global tool and also using the configure
system options of.
Jenkins Right.
So that's it, guys.
So in our next video onwards, we will start doing configuration or building of our whole application
on using.
Jenkins.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Advanced configuration for Jenkins ===


--- Part5 -Building project with Maven command line interface ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part five of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video I'll be talking about building project using Maven.
Before watching this part I would request you to watch part four since this part is going to be a complete
continuation of that part.
So what are we really going to talk about?
Building project using Maven in this video?
Well, in our last video so far, we did some of the configuration or kind of a bed for start using
our Jenkins.
But from this particular video onwards, we are really going to make use of those bed.
So far we have created or setup we have created so far to start using with with Jenkins.
So for that, what I'm going to do is the first thing which I'm going to do is I'm going to do a compilation
of our project that we have already and start using it.
So for that, I'm going to first flip to our Windows 10 virtual machine and show you quickly what I'm
really going to talk about in this particular video.
Well, until last video, we used the Chocolaty to download some of the most important package, but
we missed one of the most important package that I was about to show you is the Maven Project or Maven
Tool, which we need to install as well.
So what I'm going to do is I'm again going to search the maven here using our Chocolaty, and you can
see that we have a Maven project as well.
So I'm just going to copy the Choco install maven and then I'm going to hit enter.
So this will basically install the maven for us in our machine.
So if we have a maven, we can actually do a compilation of our project which is built using Maven.
But once again, so far I'm talking about some project and project, right?
But where is this project actually coming from?
Well, this project is going to be coming from our GitHub Office automation channel.
So if you don't know the GitHub of our automation channel, well, this is it.
So if you just type git execute automation, you will end up over here.
This particular repo.
So if you go here there are a different repositories available.
So if you go to the repositories you can see there are different projects available, right?
So unit Peram, selenium, parallel samples, spec flow, selenium, parallel, selenium with cucumber,
cucumber, basic automation reporting system and there are many.
And the one project which I'm pretty much interested in this time is going to be this one selenium n
unit params.
Well, the interest for this and the interest for another project is for two reasons.
The one is to showcase you how to work with a C-sharp project and another one is to showcase you how
to work with a Java project.
Well, we are going to touch both of them, but right now, as a start, let's not really talk about
the C-sharp project.
Let's talk about a Java project.
So basically I'm going to make use of this Cucumber basic project or the repo.
So I'm going to take that.
Basically it's built using a maven, and you can see because it's a maven project, it has a format
XML file, and this format, XML file basically has all the prerequisite packages to be installed so
that we can make use of it, right?
So you can see there are so many things available within this particular project, right?
So I'm just going to make use of this XML file and I am going to really clone this particular project
and see how things work.
Well, to clone this, as I already said, we can make use of our GitHub to just download it and we
can do an operation over here.
So I'm just going to copy this particular thing.
And as I already said, we have installed the git in our previous video right over here, the git.
So let's do this.
Let's go to our maybe I'm just going to create a simple folder here and let's call it as git pull.
So within this git pull folder, I'm going to go to the open command prompt.
And then here I'm going to just clone this particular project that we got.
So I'm just going to do a git clone of the project that we got the cucumber basic.
And if I hit Enter, you can see that the cucumber basic is basically cloning in into this particular
folder, right?
So now we have a cucumber basic project over here and if I just go here, you can see that we have this
particular project, right?
So we know that I guess the Maven is already downloaded and it is downloaded under the C colon slash
tools folder.
So if I go to the tools folder of our C colon over here, you can see that we have our Apache maven,
right?
So this is the Apache maven which is very much interested in which I am very much interested in.
And now if I go to the environment variable this time you can see that the environment variable will
also be set for Maven for our execution.
So if I go to the environment variable, you can.
See that M2.
So there is a maven, Apache maven, and there is a M2 underscore home and there is a M2 repo.
Right.
So everything is over here, which is pretty much set automatically using chocolate.
So chocolate is doing all the jobs for us for setting the environment variables as well.
Right.
So it is adding it.
Cool.
So I'm just going to close it.
And now if you have a maven set, all you have to do is just go to the particular project and then do
the GitHub git pull and then go to the command prompt.
And basically you can just do a maven or MVN.
Let's hit enter.
Let's see if really it is rejecting the maven.
I guess it is sending.
Okay, cool.
Everything is fine.
And now if I just do MVN and then if I just do a clean you can see that it is going to clean the particular
project.
Of course there is nothing else.
So we can just do a build to perform the build operation.
But I just did clean because it is going to download some of the most important required plugins for
us.
So after downloading all the plugins required and now if I just do a MVN of maybe compile, you can
see that it is going to compile the project and it's going to create a folder for us with all the compiled
version of it.
And you can see that again, it's downloading some of the required files and folders for us.
It's kind of plugins which is required for the Apache Maven.
Since we have used Gherkin, it is also downloaded the Gherkin for us, the Pico Containers and the
Cucumber Java and all those JUnit and all those libraries which we have used in the Palm XML file which
is available over there, is being downloaded for us in the Maven repo.
All right.
Seems like everything is downloaded and the build is also succeeded.
So once the build is succeeded, you can see there is a target folder for us where you have the compiled
version of all the Java file into a class file or here, right?
So now the compilation is also being done, so everything looks cool.
I mean, you can do a compilation by just do a git pull from here.
You just did a git pull to create a folder and then you just call the MVN of compile to compile the
project.
Right now everything is happening.
Using the command line, we are going to do the same exact thing using Jenkins instead of doing it in
a manual way.
So.
Well, manual way works fine, which we know that we did a clone and then we just did a maven of compile
to perform the compilation cleaning and all those things just just pretty cool.
But now if I want to make use of our Jenkins, we have to create a job.
So that's what we're going to do in our next video.
Guys, let's stay tuned and we'll create a freestyle job in our next video to perform the same operation.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Cross browser Parallel testing with Jenkins 2.0 ===


--- Part 6 - Creating and working with Freestyle project using Jenkins 2.0 ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part six of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
In this video I'll be talking about creating a freestyle project using Jenkins 2.0.
And before watching this part, I would request you to watch Part five since this part is going to be
a complete continuation of that part.
Well, in this video we are going to create a freestyle project.
And the reason why we are going for a free state project right now is freestyle.
Project Style is kind of something which is available in Jenkins for a pretty long time right now from
2005, I guess.
And this is really, really very, very easy because it has every UI options that you got and you can
just give the command that you did that we did in our previous video for pulling the repository from
a GitHub and then compiling the project using the Maven.
So that's exactly what we're going to do in this particular freestyle project itself using an UI.
Well, let's quickly see how all these options that whatever we discussed in our previous video in Jenkins
in much greater detail.
So for that I'm going to flip to Windows 10 Virtual Machine.
So as I already said, we are going to create a new job this time.
And the project which I'm going to choose, is going to be the freestyle project.
So what we're going to do basically is this is the idea.
What we did in our previous video using manually with the cloning of the GitHub and then compiling the
project using this option, we are going to make use of that using Jenkins instead of doing it manually,
Right?
So let's do this.
Let's do a cucumber, or maybe just give a basic and or yeah, basic a freestyle, right?
And then if I choose this and if I hit okay, it is going to create a freestyle project for us.
But the pipeline version of the project is going to be very, very famous and it's right now available
from Jenkins 2.0.
And this is something which we'll be discussing a lot in our upcoming videos of this course.
But right now we will choose the freestyle.
And there is some other styles like projects like multi configuration project, multi branch pipeline
and all those are most advanced and for a bigger project.
But for now, since we are going to choose a very, very simple project, freestyle project is more
than enough for now and the pipeline is more than enough for this whole course, right?
So I'm going to choose the freestyle and I'm going to hit okay.
And it is going to create a project item for us or otherwise called as a job for us, right?
In Jenkins world, everything is like a job.
So you can see there is a project name and there is a description and here it comes.
All these options like GitHub project and throttle bill disable this project, execute concurrent,
build if necessary, and source control management, all those things.
But if you just want to go to each and every option, something like scrolling or if you just select
this source control management, build trigger build environment, build, post action, build right?
These things are something that is available in Tab as well.
So now the first thing which we need to do for executing our project is going to be getting the source
code of our project from the GitHub and then compiling it, right?
So we did, using what we did using GitHub, right?
So I'm going to select a git in here and then we have to give a repository name.
So the repository name is nothing but our cucumber basic, right?
So I'm just going to copy that as I did in our previous video manually, right, for manual execution.
So I'm going to give that.
And then since this is a public repo, I don't have to give any credential right now and I'm going to
select the master branch, which is okay.
So the source code is available right now.
So we have downloaded that as well using this particular option.
Pretty straightforward, right?
And now if I come down a little bit, there is something called as a build option.
So this is where you are going to actually build your downloaded project.
In order to build the download project, we are using Maven.
So if you just click this add build step here, you can see there is something called as an invoke top
level maven Target, right?
This is something which Jenkins has out of the box.
So Jenkins out of the box support the maven.
So it is very, very useful.
Or if you want to execute using the Windows Batch command, you can also do that.
It's pretty straightforward.
You can just give the Maven path and then you can just give the command like compile.
That's it.
It will compile.
This is also very, very easy.
People were using this a lot, but right now, since we have an option to execute the Maven, you can
use this option as well.
Invoke top level maven Target again guys our this project Cucumber Basic is basically a Maven project
and that's why we are choosing the top level maven Target, let's say if your project is not a maven.
You had to do it the other way around, right?
Not this way.
Well, I'm going to choose the Maven for now.
And the goal for the Maven.
There are many different goals like test, build, verify or maybe whatever goal that you specify.
You can give that.
So the most default goal is going to be something like compile and clean, something like that, right?
So I'm going to choose what is called as a compile and you can just expand this as well, see?
Right.
So I'm just going to compile the project and there is an advanced option where you can specify the pom.xml
file.
If you have that Pom.xml file in a different folder structure of your project.
Currently my XML file is available in the right folder structure.
It is completely sitting outside of the source folder, which is pretty cool because this is how the
XML file should be.
So I don't really have to specify the XML file over here, so it is available for me in the right place.
Let me close this right.
So this is cool.
No problem.
So I'm not going to specify this and I don't really have to explicitly specify any properties as well.
Similarly for the JVM option, I don't really have to specify anything, so I don't really require the
advanced option itself.
I can just save this completely and you can see that this particular project, basic freestyle, is
already saved.
And now if I want to build this particular project, the very, very simple option is this one.
But now if I just select this, you can see that it is currently building a project for us and while
it is building, you can actually see what is happening over here.
See, it says that the main build is failed.
I don't know for what reason it's failed.
So if I click this particular red icon over there, it is taking me over here.
Not much information, but there is something called as a console output.
So if I select this and if I go over here, you can see that it is actually cloning the repository for
us over here.
And it has failed while it is trying to compile the project.
You know, what is the reason for this failure?
This is happening most of the time.
If we don't specify the Maven project folder location exactly which is available in the tools folder,
or sometimes you need to restart your machine so that it will work fine because we just installed the
maven using Chocolaty in our previous videos right over here and we did not restart the machine.
So we need to restart the machine to make this happen.
If it doesn't work, then the worst case is you can go to the Jenkins or here and then go to the manage
Jenkins, Go to the global tool configuration and here you can configure the Maven also over here,
the Maven installation folder.
So let's do this.
Let's try to restart this machine.
I'm going to close this.
Oops, I just closed the Jenkins directly.
It's not the right way of doing it.
Sometimes it will crash, so we have to manually close it.
So I'm just going to restart the machine.
All right.
The machine rebooted, so I'm just going to log in.
There we go.
So now we have this particular machine rebooted.
And now, once again, I will just go to the command prompt and maybe I can just open the command prompt
in an administrator mode, which is which is.
Okay.
Yeah.
This is a virtual machine, so it should be slow because my machine cannot support a lot of virtual
machines though.
So.
I'm just going to run this as an administrator.
And here I'm just going to go to the Jenkins and I can just do Java hyphen jar of Jenkins dot var whoops
sorry, Java hyphen jar and hit enter.
So this will spin up the Jenkins for us.
So while Jenkins is being spin up, I can also do this.
I can open a chrome and then I can navigate to Jenkins home page and see if the Jenkins is being loaded.
And once again, if the test fails for building, we can explicitly specify the path for Maven and we'll
see how things work.
Basically, it happened to me a couple of time and I just tried to figure out why it is really failing
because it doesn't make any sense.
Well, I then found that it either happens while we don't restart our machine because the home path
is not set or Jenkins is unable to find the Maven path, which is the physical location of the Maven
dot X path.
Right?
So it can happen for two reasons.
Okay.
Jenkins is fully up and running, so now I guess.
Yep, it's loaded.
So once again I will just log in as an admin and admin user and then we can directly go to that particular
project, the basic E freestyle project over here, and then we can just try to build it and see how
things work.
So you can build using that particular icon that we had before or using this icon.
And you can see that the build will happen.
So while it's building, we can just go to this particular option over here and go to the console.
You can see the output directly.
I guess something is happening this time.
You can see that it is building.
There we go.
It's happening.
So basically the restart has created the problem.
So you can see that right now it is actually compiling the particular project.
So before we had an error that it could not able to compile the particular project.
Right.
But right now, this time you can see that it has completed the compilation and it says Success, which
is cool, right?
So it is red color.
Don't worry about it yet.
So once you go back to the particular project, you can see that this time it is blue color.
Basically.
It is cool.
I mean, there is no bug or problem with this particular build, right?
So this is how you can actually try to compile your particular project using Jenkins instead of doing
it manually, which is pretty fast and very, very efficient.
Now if you ask me where you are actually executed, projects are actually sitting.
You can see this is the workspace of your project.
And now if I just go to this particular project folder or the workspace, you can see we have a basic
freestyle and here is what our project is sitting.
So I can just do a side by side comparison this time and I can show you how it's basically looking.
So here and let's do this.
Let's put this guy over here in the C colon and if I go to the git pull cucumber basic, this is exactly
your identity color, right?
This is something which we did manually and this is something which is executed by our.
Jenkins Right.
So this is how you can actually compile the project using Jenkins using this very, very simple option.
So in our next video, we'll try to work around with our different project of a repository and we'll
try to see how we can execute that using that particular project and perform the operation.
So that's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Jenkins with Docker ===


--- Part 7 - Creating FreeStyle Project for Build + Test with Jenkins 2.0 (Java) ---

Hey guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from Amazon.com.
And welcome to part seven of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C Sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about creating freestyle project using Jenkins 2.0 for build and
test.
Before watching this part, I would request you to watch Part six since this part is going to be a complete
continuation of that part.
So in our last video, which is nothing but Part six, we did a same freestyle project using Jenkins
2.0 for building our project by downloading the repository from GitHub and just compiling it.
That's it.
So it's just a building of our project.
But we did not did anything like a testing because that particular project that we downloaded from the
repo did not actually have any test project by itself.
And that's the reason there was no test being executed.
But this time we are going to leverage and see how we can actually try to test the particular project
and see how it works.
So what I'm going to basically do is I'm going to flip to our Windows 10 virtual machine and try to
see what exactly we are going to do.
So we saw how we have the project been created in our workspace in our previous video, right?
So let's do this.
Let's try to use a different project this time from our GitHub of Execute Automation Channel and let's
use a different repository, which is nothing but selenium with Cucumber.
Again, this is not an HTML project.
It is a same project kind of, but it has a test project in it and it is executing the UI test for us
as well.
So I'm going to just clone this particular repo and then I'm going to execute the test, right?
So let me go to the Jenkins once again and then the same basic freestyle project.
I'm just going to reconfigure it.
So again, for reconfiguring this particular project, we can just do this.
We can just go to the configure option over here and then you can just reconfigure whatever change that
you want.
So basically, I'm just going to reconfigure this particular project because again, I don't really
have to create the same kind of stuff once again because we are just going to do just a reconfiguration
here.
So this is loading and here I'm just change particular project over here with surname with Cucumber
project, right?
And here the goal is actually compile.
Well for that particular project.
The goal is actually called as verify or test something like that.
So we can just give this verify and then I'm going to hit save.
So this will basically do a test for us, I guess.
So now I'm just going to build the particular project and let's go over here and let's see the console
output.
Let's see what's really happening.
You can see that this time it is going to do a verify by pulling this particular project for us.
So right now it is scanning the project and it seems like there are some of the plugins been missing.
So it is downloading all those plugins for us.
So it is going to take a while because it has to download the surefire plugin for Maven and it has to
download the Maven Cucumber reporting because in that particular project we also have a Maven Cucumber
reporting, so it is downloading that and also it is going to download the Json and a lot of other options
that were whichever we have used for that particular project.
So it is downloading everything.
All right.
So now it is starting the test for us and you can see that the runner test is been running and there
is some error while executing the particular test, which is okay.
I guess it's because it is trying to call the Firefox browser.
And in this machine we don't really have a Firefox browser installed and that's the reason it is failing
or it may be failing because it is trying to look for a plugin which needs to be available under a particular
folder location, but since it is not there, it is again failing.
I guess.
So let's see what's really going to happen.
Um, we can quickly see what is the error.
So it says that Java dot illegal.
Yep.
As you can see here, the driver executable does not exist in the e colon slash slash chrome driver
dot x is not there so bad because we are trying to we have hardcoded the path location of the chrome
driver in our project and that's why it is looking for the chrome driver within this e colon slash libs.
And that just got failed pretty bad for now.
So let's see, the whole code is going to be failing, of course.
All right.
It says succeeded.
It just succeeded because the the build is done and the execution is done.
But the test has failed.
Right.
And now if I just go over here, you can see back to the project.
This particular project is not tested yet.
So now what I can do is I can just go to this particular project and.
Change the code a little bit to point to the C code and we need to have a chrome driver as well for
our particular project.
So I can just download the chrome driver from here.
So this is the chrome driver 2.27 So we'll download for the Windows operating system.
There we go.
And then let me open this and I'm going to put this in the C column of my machine.
Or you can also set the home path of the chrome driver.
It should be fine as well.
So whichever is fine.
So I'm going to put it over here.
And within this code we have to change this again, within this code, I know where this particular
change has to be made.
I can just go to the source now.
I guess it is there in the steps.
Yep.
Hokejowa.
So here I guess we have hardcoded the location as e colon slash lib so we can just do a code edit.
All right, I need to sign in, so let me quickly sign in.
And now I can just do an edit this file.
And here instead of this, this e colon, I can just give it a C colon slash lips slash chrome directory.
Okay.
And I can just say oops.
Updated the.
Chrome driver location.
I can commit the changes.
There we go.
And now it is there in the C colon slash lips.
So C colon slash lips is residing under here in our machine.
C colon.
And there is a lips folder.
Right?
And now if I try to build this particular project this time, you can see that it should work fine without
any problem.
And also it should be very fast because all the plugins have already been downloaded, so we should
not see any downloading of the plugin once again.
So this time it should be very fast as well.
There we go.
Now it should open a Chrome browser for us and perform a basic test.
So now the testing is starting so you can see that it is opening a Firefox Chrome browser for us and
it is navigating to the automation demo site.
There we go.
It has executed and now it is again opening one more Chrome browser and then performing the operation.
Just cool.
So now we can see that we can able to perform a testing and building of our project very, very easily
using these options, right?
So you can also see that this particular simple options that we made has performed this operation very,
very easily for us.
But as you can see that once our project is progressing, we will have different stages of the execution
in our project, something like building the project, testing the project, then reporting the particular
test failures.
And also we have to see how the test reports are going to look like.
And then we also need to have a mailing system in place and then we have to trigger the build.
Once the once there is a new code check in is done into the continuous integration systems, All these
things are pretty, pretty important for a for a continuous integration system.
So we are going to basically deep dive into all these things in our upcoming videos as well.
So once again, guys, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Jenkins Advanced concepts - Pipeline as a code ===


--- Part 8 - Creating Pipeline project for build+test+report using cucumber Report ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part eight of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video I'll be talking about creating pipeline project using Jenkins 2.0 for build test and
reporting.
And before watching this part, I would request you to watch part six and seven since this part is going
to be a complete continuation of those two part.
Well, in part six and seven, we talked how to work with a freestyle project and how to create a project,
how to compile a project and how to run it test using that particular freestyle project in much greater
detail in part six and seven.
And in this video, we'll be talking about creating pipeline project a lot because Pipeline is the future
of Jenkins and very, very interesting things are happening using this Jenkins file and the Jenkins
file is more like a very, very simple code that you can write using Groovy, where you can just, you
know, try to create your own build steps very, very easily and much customizable and this is really,
really awesome.
If you start looking at how pipeline is really changing the way Jenkins is in 2.0.
Well, now to get started, I'm going to flip to Windows 10 Virtual Machine and see how things work.
So this is the same project which we have been working so long in our.
Jenkins So I'm just going to go to this particular project back and I'm going to the dashboard this
time.
I'm not really interested in this freestyle anymore.
I am going to work with a pipeline project, as I already said.
So I'm going to click this new item and I'm going to choose Pipeline and let's give a name for this.
Let's do this.
Since the project name is going to be like surname with Cucumber.
So I'm just going to use the same name Selenium with cucumber pipeline, right?
And then I'm going to hit.
Okay, So this time it's going to create a pipeline project.
And you can see that this pipeline project, it actually has the same look and feel.
You don't see any pipes out here or there.
But basically the only change that you can very quickly notice when you encounter when you come down
here is this because there is something called a pipeline, but it's pretty blank.
There is nothing else to be seen.
Basically, this pipeline is like a groovy sandbox that you can see here.
And basically it is not something that you can do in a freestyle project that we did before in a pre-sale
project.
As you remember, we had an UI for each and every option.
So if you if you go back a little bit or here to the Jenkins, you can see for the basic E freestyle
and if you go to the configuration, you can basically see that it had a source code management for
the git.
So we give a GitHub repository or here and then we also give a build option over here, invoke top level
maven Target.
And the goal was to verify and this verify will automatically run the test for us.
Right?
And then there is a post action that you can specify here, like sending an email and all those options.
Well, these are something which we did in our previous video using freestyle.
But right now in Pipeline, the complete UI interface is changed and there is a very, very simple pipeline
multi-line text box there.
So what is this change?
How to really type a groovy script in the pipeline?
Because as we know, that groovy is something very different.
Maybe you guys know what is groovy is and how to work with groovy.
I personally don't know what groovy is and how to write a code using groovy.
And I really thought like I cannot really make it with a Jenkins 2.0 because there is something all
groovy again I have to learn groovy and again I have to start using.
It's kind of cumbersome, I thought Jenkins really making our lives very hard, but well, I dived into
this pipeline and really started to love with it because it's very, very simple as like the freestyle
project and it's the future of the Jenkins itself.
So we really have to use it.
So where do I get the syntax of this pipeline?
You can actually go over here.
There's a pipeline syntax, and if I just open this, you can see that it is going to take you to your
own localhost colon, 80 slash jobs with cucumber pipeline.
And there is a pipeline syntax.
And this pipeline syntax is very, very easy and pretty, pretty awesome because you can see there is
a sample steps here, right?
And here you can use this particular sample step to perform the operation, like archiving, running
a batch script, running a job.
And then if you come here sending an email and then you can see there is a git, right?
Let's choose this git.
And you can see this is the same UI that we saw in our freestyle project, right where we just pasted
the repo URL and then we just selected the branch as master.
We did not give any credentials, we just left it right.
That's pretty same UI.
It is.
So what we can do is basically I can once again copy the repository to clone from here and I can just
paste it.
Door here.
Right.
And now if I want to see what is the syntax of groovy for this particular action that I made in the
UI, you can just hit this generate pipeline script.
That's it.
This is the super simple command that we have to give Git.
That's it.
So I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to paste it over here.
Super simple, right?
So this is how you can perform the operation using pipeline.
And I don't know why it is called as named as Pipeline.
Maybe it is like piping in each other, commands one by one and then performing the operation.
That's why it is.
It should be pipeline, I don't know.
But yes, it is very, very awesome.
And now, as I said, we have given the git.
There we go.
And the next option that we did is the execution of Maven, Right?
So now if I come down a little bit, did we see anything like Maven option if I come back or come down
here?
No, there are so many Docker things and you can see there is an advanced and deprecated options as
well.
So maybe it can work or it cannot work as well.
But there is something called as a common step.
I remember if you go here, if I come down.
Yep, step general, build, step and here you can actually see there are a lot of general build steps,
but we don't really see our maven thing.
So basically if you don't see the one which you are looking for, then you can easily do using what
is called as a bash script of windows, right?
So for executing a Maven command, we know what is the command we just did in our manual execution as
well.
MVN And then we just give our verify, right?
MVN And build.
MVN Compile.
MVN verify.
That's it.
So in order to do that, the bash script is very, very easier.
So if you want to execute a Maven command, you just do what MVN and then you just do verify for our
project at least.
And now if I just try to generate the pipeline script, that's it.
This is the command for verifying.
And if I want to compile, of course it is going to compile.
I can just do compile, generate script, You can see VAT and compile and VAT and verify.
So simple it is right.
So this is the command for generating the Maven command.
So if I just do this.
There we go.
So this is the command.
I can just copy that and I can perform the operation.
But basically I'm really interested in compiling so I can just do a mvn, verify, I can just copy this
and then I can go over here and then I can just paste it over here.
Right?
So this is going to take our project from the GitHub and then it's going to verify, meaning it's going
to run the test for us as well.
So I'm going to save this.
This is the very simple configuration for the pipeline of Jenkins.
And now if I want to build again, the same option here, the bill now.
So if I hit it, you can see that there is going to be a build starting in.
So if I select that and if I go to the console output, we can see there is a problem.
This time it says that the Jenkins pipeline workflow is required and it says that the path is missing.
Well, the problem is actually happening because we are missing a workflow which is required for the
pipeline to be executed.
And it also kind of not telling exactly what the problem is happening.
But if you just go back and know what is the problem is it says that perhaps you forgot to surround
the code, the step that provides this, such as node.
So it is expecting us to pass a node for the particular pipeline.
So again, if you see what is Node suddenly, because we have not given any node so far in our freestyle
execution, but why is this required for the pipeline?
Well, this is really a process.
If you see in our Jenkins, if I go to the home page of the Jenkins, we actually have a build executors
and this executors are kind of kind of idle right now.
We have two build executors.
And if I click this, you can see that we have a master build executor where it is having two executors
here.
This master is basically what is called as a node or otherwise called as a node, which is available
within your master machine.
So if you have many number of nodes, you can just configure them as a different nodes to perform different
executor executions or otherwise called as different executors.
And you can specify the executors as well.
So again, once again, guys, these are something we'll be discussing later in this course.
But for now, just be informed that this node is kind of very, very important because if you click
this node, you can see that you can create different nodes for your execution and you can scale out
your nodes to be sitting in different machines if you want, and that is kind of an option.
That you can do in Jenkins And for the pipeline, it is by default expecting you to pass the executors
or otherwise called as nodes to execute your pipelines.
So for doing that, if I go to the selenium with cucumber pipeline and if I go to the configure, basically
it is expecting us to pass a node.
And again, if you ask me what is node and how do I give the syntax for the node, basically you can
just give a syntax of the node very, very simply, just go into the syntax over here.
Oops.
I think I also given a wrong problem here.
I just have to copy this value that mvn verify.
Instead of this I can just paste that.
All right.
We saw some other error as well along the line.
And if I go over here to the sample steps here this time, and if I just drill down a little bit, we
need a node, right?
So if I just come over here for the syntax of the node, the very, very simple option is here node
allocate node.
And if you want to give a label for the node because our node currently is this Windows 10 machine.
So I can just give Win10 which is my local machine and if I hit generate pipeline script, you can see
that it is going to tell you that the node is this.
This is the simple option that you can give node and the name of the label over here.
And it is also intelligently saying that there is no agent or cloud the machines that matches this particular
assignment.
Do you mean master instead of Windows 10?
So if I say master and if I hit generate pipeline now, it is pretty much served.
And also say the label master is served by one node, right?
And now you get the idea, right?
I showed you the master or there and it was the current machine that we are running this particular
Jenkins itself.
Right?
So this is what it is.
So I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to come over here, I'm going to paste this and within
this surrounded code block, I'm going to paste my code over here, right?
And let's do an simple alignment here.
That's it.
So this is it.
So now we have a node and we have this particular operation that we're going to perform within this
node.
And then I close this particular node.
Now I'm going to save it.
And now if I try to build this time, this time it should hopefully try to build the project without
any problem.
And also it should perform the UI test for us.
Let's see what's really happening.
You can see that this time there is no error.
It is trying to clone the repo for us and then it is going to start the test as usual without any problem.
If there is no problem and you can see that the Maven verify is also really happening there.
All right.
It is scanning the project, which means it is the moon is also verified.
And now we're just going to run the test for us.
So this is it.
That's it, guys.
So you can see that using the simple operations, using the pipeline, we can perform this pipeline
operation in Jenkins 2.0.
And as you already said, Jenkins is really a way of build step in the future releases because the pipeline
is really, really concentrated then compared to the freestyle project itself.
And again, if you are very comfortable with the freestyle, you can still use that.
But again, Pipeline has given a really cool option.
Then compared to the freestyle project itself, it is very simple.
All you have to do is just write a very few lines of code here and there and you are pretty much good
to go and you can see that the test is running right now.
It is executing all the tests as expected.
So everything is working fine as expected.
So that's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Jenkins with agents as docker containers ===


--- Part 9 - Creating Pipeline project for build+test+report using cucumber report ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part nine of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp video series.
And in this video we'll be talking about creating pipeline project using Jenkins 2.0 for build test
and reporting.
And before watching this part, I would request you to watch Part eight since this part is going to
be a complete continuation of that part.
And as you can see in this slide, we have a reporting being highlighted.
And the reason is because this part is a complete continuation of Part eight, where in part eight we
created a simple pipeline project to perform both build and test, but we did not perform any reporting
yet.
So far, we have not even touched the reporting part, even in the freestyle project.
So we are going to make use of the reporting this time.
So for that, I'm going to show you very quickly what kind of reporting that we are going to make use
of.
So as we know in our automation channel, we have already discussed about reporting in our Execute Automation
channel.
We have something called as section to Cucumber with Selenium where we have something called as reporting
in cucumber using Maven cucumber reporting.
So we are going to make use of these two videos, which is part six and part seven of our automation
channel.
So please go ahead and watch those too, since we are going to make use of exactly the same thing in
these two video, we actually covered something like this cucumber reporting.
So if you just search for cucumber reporting and there is something called as this cucumber reporting
and this is a very, very pretty report which is going to show you report something like this.
So we just used this to create a report for us using Maven in our previous video series of our automation
channel in Cucumber.
But we did not really integrated that with the Jenkins yet.
So we are going to make use of that.
But actually, if you can see here, if you just hover here, you can see that there is an information
here showing there is a plugin which is already available for Jenkins as well, so we can make use of
that.
And that plugin is something right here Cucumber Reports plugin.
So we are going to install this particular plugin.
As you can see the screenshot is screenshots are pretty much same that we saw in the GitHub.
So we are going to make use of this particular plugin for our Jenkins to generate a report for our test.
Right.
And again we are going to make use of this reporting plugin reports to be generated for our pipeline
project.
So what I'm going to basically do is if I hop over to my Windows 10 machine, this is the same place
where we left our execution.
So if I go back to my project so far, oops, let's logged out.
All right.
Jenkins is running.
So far what we did is if you just go to the build result of the freestyle project, you can see there
is no such reporting options here.
You can even don't find any reporting options yet.
But once we install this plugin and once we configure that with our pipeline project, you can see there
will be one more option for reporting.
So first of all, we need to install the plugin, right?
So for that I'm going to go to the manage Jenkins option.
And here there is something called as manage plugins and here there is something called as available
tab.
So you can go to this available tab where you can search for the cucumber plugin.
So I'm going to just search for cucumber report and you can see there is something called as a cucumber
report plugin which is automatically coming in.
So I'm going to select that and I'm going to say install without restart.
So I'm going to click this button.
So this is going to install the plugin for me.
All right.
Succeeded.
So I'm just going to do a log out and log in once again so that it will refresh.
And now if I go to the Selenium with Cucumber pipeline project, and if I go to the configure option
we have to give or maybe we have to run the cucumber reporting at the end of the test execution.
Right?
So once the test is being executed, then we actually have to generate the report, which is nothing
but the cucumber report.
That's how it will be done.
Right?
So using the Json file, it is actually using the test result XML file.
It is going to actually create cucumber report for us.
So again, if I go back to the syntax of the pipeline and if I just do a refresh because we have made
a plugin installation and now if I go back and if I search for how we can get the particular XML file
generated, if I go to the what is called as a common steps, remember the one which we saw in our previous
video how we can use this, the general build step.
Right?
So I can select that.
And this time if I just go over here, we have something called as cucumber reports.
This time this is something new and this came once we installed the plugin actually.
So I'm going to select that.
And then if I just select the advanced option, it will tell you where the Json file is actually residing.
Basically the Json file is going to be residing within my test result folder, so it is going to be
okay.
So everything is fine.
I don't I really don't have to change anything.
The target folder itself will be automatically taken for that case.
So I'm going to hit this generate pipeline script and this is going to show you a lot of things.
Oh my God.
So I'm just going to copy all of them.
And you can see there are so many other options available here.
So number of failed steps, if you want to show, you can show that and number of skipped steps if you
want to show, you can show that and you can configure this as well.
Right.
The reporting option.
But really, I'm not going to deep dive into this reporting option.
I'm just going to leave everything by default.
What are there?
So I'm just going to leave that.
All I need is this particular line.
So I'm just going to copy this.
And then if I go back here, I can just paste this over here, right?
So I can just paste this and I can just save it now, Right?
That's it.
Super simple.
It is.
And now if I build this time, you can actually see that it is going to perform all the operation pretty
much exactly the same thing, like downloading or cloning the repository and then executing the test
after build.
And then it is finally going to generate a report for us.
So let's wait for a while once all the operation is done, I'll be back.
There you go.
Test execution is done.
Probably our execution should be done by now.
So if I go this time or here, and if I go to the console output, we should probably see something's
going to happen.
You can see that the Maven Cucumber reporting is actually generating right now.
So it is taking a few minutes.
All right.
It seems like the finished status is success here.
So everything is pretty much good right now, right?
So now if I go back to the project and if I come back to this particular test execution, once again,
you can see that we have right now a cucumber report option here, which was not there before so far.
So if I click this particular cucumber report, basically this is the same cucumber report which is
automatically generated using the cucumber reports plugin.
And you can see that it is pretty neat and decent.
This time it is showing the failure and it is showing the number of scenarios got passed, the number
of scenarios got failed and this failure is actually happening intentionally.
We did this not to show this in report and you can also see what are the steps being executed.
And there is only one step got failed among eight steps.
So there is seven step past and one step got failed.
And you can see the number of past step, number of failed step number of skipped all those things.
So informations are pretty clear here and you can also see the previous result if you have any, which
is not there.
And then if I go back to the latest result.
So this is the latest result that we got and then you can search with the tags and what are the steps
being executed.
So you can see everything over here using this pretty neat cucumber report that you can also integrate
with the.
Jenkins Right.
So this is pretty, pretty simple and straight forward.
And you can see that how easily you can generate a reporting along with your continuous integration
system.
And you can see an exactly what expected report that you are expecting for.
Right?
So that's it, guys.
This is how you can do a build test and reporting using pipeline in a very, very high level.
So in our next video, we will see one more option of pipeline, which is more helpful to show the progress
of how the test is actually happening instead of just waiting and looking at this particular screen
for a pretty long time, like how the test execution is really happening.
Because as you can see here, there is something called as a stage view where it says that please use
stage step to define some stages in the pipeline.
So we'll actually deep dive and drill into it what actually it is.
So once again, guys, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Building applications with Jenkins agent as an container ===


--- Part10 - Working with stage view in Jenkins 2.0 for pipeline project ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part ten of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp video series.
And in this video I'll be talking about creating stages in pipeline project using Jenkins 2.0.
And this part is going to be a complete continuation of Part eight and nine.
So please go ahead and watch those two videos before watching this part.
All right.
Stages.
And why are we really going to the stages?
Well, stages is really, really helpful in order to view the progress of each and every steps being
happening within your pipeline.
For instance, in our previous videos we saw there is execution happening in the the UI of the Jenkins
and we were just looking at what's really happening by going to the console output.
That was not so nice because it was there from the freestyle days.
But in Pipeline there is one more option option called stage where you can specify the stage where it
is being executed.
So let's quickly see this in action.
So for that, I'm going to flip to Windows 10 virtual Machine.
So here, as you can see, while we were executing the build, we saw that there was no progress been
happening.
So every time we go over here and we go to the console output and we'll see what is the progress being
happening there.
Right?
But now what I'm going to do is we can also make use of what is called as stage within our pipeline
step so that we can mention like which stage we are currently executing in.
So in order to visualize this, I'm going to click the configure.
And if I come down a little bit here, you can see that we know what is this particular step is being
doing right now.
It is actually checking out the code from GitHub, right?
And then it is actually executing the Maven for us and then it is going to generate a report for us.
Right.
So these are the different kinds of steps that we got, right?
So in order to see what is the syntax for the stage, you can actually go over here to the sample steps
and then let's see if there is something called as stage.
And you can see that we have something called as stage here, right?
So if we want to give a name for the stage, let's say checkout.
And here you can see there is a stage check out and there is a block, right?
So I'm going to copy that.
And then if I come over here, we can just do something like this stage.
So this is the bar, the block, something like this, right?
Similarly, you can specify one more stage here, something like this stage.
And we can say that this stage is actually going to be build and test, right?
So this is this particular stage doing.
So I'm going to surround that with a curly brace as well.
And then there is a final stage where it is going to generate a report for us.
So I'm going to say generate report and I'm going to keep that as well.
There we go.
So as you can see, we have did everything over here using the stage.
And this is kind of pretty easy to read as well.
What's really going to happen there?
And you can see that this particular file is otherwise called as a Jenkin file.
So you can actually save this particular file and make use of this Jenkin file very easily while you
create a new pipeline project, right?
So we'll talk about that later in our video series.
So I'm just going to save it.
And now if I try to build this particular job, you can see that quickly.
Now we have something called a stage view.
And within this stage view, it also says that currently for this particular execution, it is checking
out the code.
Right.
And then there is a build and test is really happening.
And if I go over here, if I hover this check out, you can see there is a log as well.
So it will show me quickly what's log is really there for that particular, uh, particular step.
And if I go to this build and test, I can go to the logs and you can see what's really happening there.
So basically it is trying to execute the the Maven test for us.
So again, let's do a log, go here.
You can see that it is trying to execute slowly and steadily for that particular thing, right?
So the log is automatically being generated here.
So this is kind of a sink.
I mean, it is an asynchronous code where it will automatically show you what is really happening behind
the scene.
So now you will have a look and feel and you will have a state of what's really happening while the
test is being executed.
And you can also see what is the stage where the test is been running.
If you have something called as full stage view in here.
So if you click this, you can see that where the test is being happening.
So you can see visually in a bigger screen like what's really happening.
And similarly, if you go to this particular execution and if you go to the pipeline steps here, it
will also show you the steps for this particular pipeline, see what is really happening.
So these are the status currently is executing the Windows batch script for that particular test.
So in progress, you can see the test is currently being executed over here.
And you can also see quickly the console output for that particular event, which is currently happening.
Right.
And now let me go back to the project and let's quickly see what's really happening.
All right.
So you can see the checkout is done and the build and test is going to be done as well as quick as possible.
Then finally, we'll get a report generation.
There we go.
It says generate report, right?
So almost complete.
So there is an information and you can see that how much time it has taken for each and every step.
So it has taken nine seconds for checking out one minute, 59 second for build and test and for generating
report.
It took only three seconds.
So we have all the information over here in our fingertips with a very, very neat intuitive UI as well.
Right.
Very, very clean and neat this time.
And also we saw how we can see each and every stage by stage view for that particular pipeline.
So if you go to the pipeline steps, you can see how much time it has taken for each and every operation,
as much clearly as possible.
Right.
So this is the another beauty of looking at how Jenkins is actually building the test for us.
Right.
So that's it, guys.
This is how you can make use of visualization using stage in Jenkins.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.


=== Building Custom Docker Jenkins Master container and automating it ===


--- Part 11 - Freestyle project for Dot Net application using Jenkins 2.0 (Part A) ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 11 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp video series.
And in this video I'll be talking about creating freestyle project for a Dotnet application.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch part three through Part ten, since this
part is going to be a complete continuation of those parts.
So we have already discussed about creating a freestyle project for a Java application in our previous
videos, but this is the first time we are going to talk about a Dotnet application freestyle project
for Jenkins.
So this is really, really important because right now there is a cross platform and cross programming
language dependencies happening across the organization, and not just one piece of language is going
to work out.
So we need to have the knowledge on how to build different languages as well.
And that's why in Automation Channel we are going to talk about C-sharp as well.
So I mean, Dotnet applications as well, right?
So let's get started.
So let's do a quick recap.
So far, what we have discussed in our course so far, we have discussed something like this.
We did the introduction and installation of Jenkins.
We did the configuration of the tools required for Jenkins, and also we did the freestyle and pipeline
project for Java with build test and reporting.
That is a cucumber reporting that we saw, right?
So those are the cool things that we discussed so far in our course.
And this is really, really a stepping stone for the Dotnet project as well, because that's exactly
what we're going to do.
But here there will be a few change because the tools for the Dotnet project, compilation and testing
is going to be different compared to Java.
So now we are going to work with the Dotnet project, right?
So how the Dotnet project is organized, because the Dotnet project is not something which is pretty
much similar to what a Java project is because in Java we run in either Eclipse, IDE or IntelliJ IDE
or whatever you like it, and the framework structure for Maven is different.
Whereas for the Dotnet, the project structure is completely different.
So how is that being organized?
Well, the Dotnet project in Visual Studio looks something like this.
As you can see here, there is a solution name and there is a project name underneath which is nothing
but selenium and unit param and there is a properties.
There are some references and within this references there are some kind of files and then there is
app dot config file, there is a class file, there are some exe file gecko driver.
Right?
And there is a config file again.
So what is this?
And I mean how are these project is going to really affect for Jenkins.
Is there some implication on that?
Of course, yes.
There are some things to note down.
As you can see, this project has dependency as like Maven project of Java.
But here we have a NuGet package reference.
In Java, we have a Pom.xml file where all the references will be available for the Maven project within
the Pom.xml file.
Whereas in NuGet all the references are sitting under the references that you can see here on the screenshot,
and these references are added either by the project reference or you can add reference for the assembly
or com, or you can add the references via NuGet package manager.
So these are the different kinds of references that you need to add for your project.
So if it is some third party reference like NuGet, you need to have that reference as well else your
project is going to throw you an error and it's going to say that this reference is missing and he cannot
able to compile that right?
That's one thing.
And then the test framework used here is going to be in unit as opposed to J unit of Java.
So we will have a different execution engine here for executing that test for that particular project.
So it's going to be different as well.
So we need to have these tooling.
So NuGet is going to be a separate tool, which Jenkins have no idea of what this tool is all about.
You need to tell it explicitly that NuGet is a tool which can be used for adding references for your
project, whereas in unit is a tool which is used in the Dotnet world which can be used for executing
the test.
On the Dotnet project.
You need to have to inform Jenkins beforehand because remember in Java Project, while we were working
on Jenkins, there was a Maven option automatically added where you can give the goal in your freestyle
project, right?
Those are some things available in Jenkins out of the box.
But for Dotnet no.
Jenkins have to be informed that this tool is something completely different and we need to have this
reference as well.
I mean the option as well.
So we'll be working with adding these tools for Jenkins and informing that this is what it is.
So the project that we are going to work for from this video onwards is available in GitHub repo and
this is the URL.
As you can see, it is available under GitHub.
Dot com slash execute automation slash selenium and unit param.
Well, this is a project which we use to showcase how you can run your selenium test.
Parameterizing the value to be passed from a console command line to the project where it can spin up
the test based on the parameter that you pass in from the console command line.
Right.
So that's kind of project.
It is.
It's there available in automation channel already and the videos have been released.
So you can also watch that video so that you can have a clear understanding on how this project is being
built.
Right?
So we are going to make use of the exact same thing for this particular video as well.
Right.
So let's see the whole talk.
So far we have made in action from our next video.
So once again, guys, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 12 - Freestyle project for Dot Net application using Jenkins 2.0 (Part B) ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 12 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp video series.
In this video I'll be talking about creating freestyle project for Dotnet application.
And again, this is a complete continuation of the previous video, which is part 11 and this is part
B of this continuation.
So let's quickly see how to create a freestyle project for a Dotnet application and understand how to
build and compile that particular project that we have in a GitHub.
Right?
So for that, I'm going to flip to our Windows 10 virtual machine right now.
So this is the Windows 10 virtual machine that we have been working so long.
So what I'm going to do is we have executed a few test in our previous video series videos.
So what I'm going to do is we need to have log in because I didn't log in for a long time right now,
so I'm going to log in.
And this time, instead of touching this freestyle and cucumber pipeline project, I'm going to create
a Dotnet project, right?
So I'm going to click this new item.
And again, it's pretty much the same thing.
You need to choose the freestyle and just give the name here.
Let's call it as Dotnet freestyle project, something like that, right?
So I'm going to choose this.
I'm going to hit.
Okay.
Right now, I'm really not going to show you how to work a lot with freestyle because freestyle is going
to be deprecated.
I mean, it's not deprecated, but it's not been in use a lot.
Right now, people are focusing more on pipelines than freestyle itself.
Right?
So, again, it's going to be the same thing that we saw before.
So you can see there is a project name and you have a build environment, build steps, post-build actions.
Right?
And you can specify the source management for the git code.
Again, the git is actually available or here.
And if you go to the automation repositories you have the selenium init param.
So I'm going to select that and I'm going to clone this particular project.
So I'm going to copy this.
I'm going to come over here and I'm just running through very quickly because we have already discussed
about these options in much greater detail in our previous videos.
So please go ahead and watch those videos so that you can have a clear understanding of what we are
doing over here.
Right.
So I'm just going to quickly run over because our focus is on something else, rather showing these
already discussed options.
So I'm going to paste this git URL here for cloning and then we actually have to come over here for
the build.
And now comes the question, if you see in our previous videos, we use the Java Project and we invoked
a top level maven target goal and we just specify compile.
And that worked right.
And similarly, we gave what clean it worked.
So those things are available in Jenkins out of the box.
But for dot net world, Jenkins is not much happy because I guess TFS is already there and Jenkins is
not happy to support Dotnet out of the box, but they need to have to support anyways and that's why
they have an option called execute Windows Batch Command.
This is kind of a open playground where you can specify a command which you know to execute a unit test
and which is pretty, pretty straightforward because you can just give the command like in unit and
then you can just specify the file.
It executes the test.
Similarly, if you want to do some compilation, then you can just specify that and you can perform
the operation, right?
But the first thing we need to do before doing a testing is to compile the project.
But we don't have a compilation yet.
So how to do that?
That's what we're going to do.
I'm just going to save this for now.
As you can see, all this Dotnet project can be compiled using what is called as a Msbuild plugin.
So Msbuild plugin is a different plugin altogether.
So if you come over here, if I just type Msbuild plugin for Jenkins, there we go.
Somehow it's coming.
And now if I go over here, you can see that this is the most active plugin, meaning it is in development
and people are using it.
You can see so many people are downloading it each and every month so we can use this, right?
So Msbuild plugin, we can just search for it and we can install it again to install a plugin, we have
to go to the dashboard and manage Jenkins and here we can go to plugins and go to the available and
just search for Msbuild.
Right.
So we have an Msbuild plugin here which is not installed yet.
So I'm going to install the restart and you can see that it is going to install the particular plugin
for us right now.
Right.
It is success.
Let me log out and log in back so that it will be refreshed with this plugin.
So now you can go to your what is called as a managed Jenkins once again.
And here there is something called as a global tool configuration.
Remember, these are something which we discussed in our part two of our video series, right?
Part two and Part three of this video series, we discussed how to configure the tools for the for the
Maven, all those things.
Similarly, right now we have something called as Ms. Build.
This time Ms..
Build is something which is an explicit tool.
It is not available out of the box and you need to tell where this build is actually available.
Do you have an Ms. build right now?
Of course not.
You don't have an Ms. build right now, so we need to install this Ms. build and I don't really have
a Visual Studio installed in my machine, this virtual machine yet, so I need to somehow have this
Ms. build again.
Where is this build available?
Chocolaty is the answer.
So if you just go to the chocolate.org and if you just go to the packages link and then if you search
for what is called as build and hit search, you can see that there will be a Microsoft build tool.
That's exactly what I required, right?
So I can just take the I don't really have to take the extension pack yet because that's not important
for me right now.
So I can just copy this command and then I can go to the PowerShell or whatever.
You can even search or perform this operation in your command prompt if you want, and just right click
and run as administrator and you can just paste this command and hit enter.
So this will install the Ms. build tool for you in this machine, right?
So even if you don't have Visual Studio installed in your machine, no problem.
You can just install your Ms. build into this machine.
So once the installation is done, you can start making use of this Ms. build for your project and that
will start compiling your project.
And that's what is most important thing.
So first thing you need to have is Ms. Build and then you need to have a NuGet package and then you
need to have a an init package tool which can be used to compile your test.
So these are the three most important tool required for your dotnet application to be built and compiled.
So right now it is downloading a file from the URL specified.
The downloading is done and then it is going to start the installation I guess.
Yep.
See you can see that the installation is starting and you can see that it is kind of silent installation.
It is not asking me where to install all these things, so it's doing everything automatically and you
can see that it is going to install that.
I guess it's going to install me this Ms. build under program files.
And there is something called as Microsoft Build tool or something like that.
Yep.
You must build within this bin.
We have this Ms. build, I guess.
Yep.
There we go.
You can see there is the Msbuild x and this x is what I require for my for my global tool configuration.
I can specify the build over here.
If I specify this in the environment variable, I don't really even have to specify that you are here,
right?
So let the installation is completely done.
Once the installation is done, I'll be back.
All right.
Seems like the installation is over right now and it is installed as well.
So now if I just go back here and let's go to the build 14 bin and you can see that under this bin folder
we have this Ms. build.
So let me copy this path quickly and let's go over here and just paste this guy, right.
So.
Oops.
Sorry.
I just have to give a name here.
Let's call this as misspelled local.
And this is the path.
So path doesn't mean path should have I misspelled as well.
Right.
So you can specify this.
It will tell you that the C program files will not is a directory.
So but perhaps it exists on some other agent.
Of course it is there.
So yep, you can specify that.
And I'm going to hit save.
Right.
There we go.
So we have saved it.
And now if I go back to my dashboard here for the Dotnet freestyle project, and if I go to the configuration
and if I come down this time, if I click this add build step, you can see we have a Build a Visual
Studio project.
Our solution using msbuild.
And this is happening because we have installed a Msbuild plugin, right?
So I'm going to select that and you can see that the version is specified as default.
You can select the one which you given a name Msbuild local right in your global config.
So I'm going to choose that and msbuild build file.
Do you if you have any build file, you can specify that our build file is nothing but our solution
file.
So what is our solution file name?
If we know that we can give that, you can see here the solution file name is this one.
Right?
Selenium and unit params dot sln.
So I'm going to just copy this.
I'm going to paste it over here and then I'm going to save it, right?
So this is not the complete configuration yet.
We have just did a build, but the build is going to fail because it is going to require you a NuGet
package manager as well.
So if you don't really believe me what I'm talking about, what we can do is I'm just going to hit save
again.
And then if I do a build, you can see that this time during the build operation is happening, it will
tell you an error stating the NuGet reference is not yet added.
There we go.
Here you can see the assembly reference for the framework.
We are not resolved.
You need to install the SDK.
Okay.
And it will have one more problem here because we don't have a.
Net framework version 4.5.2 yet in this machine.
And that's why this error is coming.
And there will be one more error, which is going to be the NuGet package assembly reference.
So we don't have these two errors.
So we need to resolve these two before executing this.
That's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and stay tuned for completing this whole video.

--- Part 13 - Running NUnit Selenium Test with Freestyle project using Jenkins 2.0 ---

Hi, guys, my name is Karthik and I am from Automation Dotcom, and welcome to part 13 of our build
deploy test with Jenkins' 2.0 for Java and C Sharp.
And this video we're talking about creating Freestyler Project for adopting the application for building
and testing.
So before watching this part, I would like to do our part.
Levin and Tool, since this board is going to be a complete continuation of that part.
All right.
So let's continue with whatever we left in our previous videos, which is nothing but part 11 and part
two.
So for that, I'm going to flip to Jenkins'.
So so far in our previous video, we were trying to create a documentary style project.
And once we execute that, we were getting some kind of errors in this or here.
Right.
So we saw that the problem is because of the Emmetsburg, which was not there.
So we just started the mousepad.
And then while we tried to run that, we got an error saying there was a net four point five point two
version was missing.
So I just started that in my machine.
I restarted at the machine and now it is available.
So now if I try to build this particular job, you can see that it is going to run, but again, it's
going to fail.
So if I go here right now and if I go to the console output once again, you can just scroll down and
see that it is fading because this project references Newgate packages that are missing on this computer.
So use Newgate back to restore download them.
So as we have seen on our slide before, it is referencing some of the Newgate packages.
Right.
So in part 11, we saw that the Newgate packages is something which is referenced for our document project,
which has to be restored before trying to compile the project itself.
So we need to do that as a first step so that it can have all the required deal which can be used for
a project.
So we have to restore our new data package as well.
So far doing that, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back to my project once again.
And here for the NUGA, there is a plug in which you can just specify the new plug in and perform the
operation.
You can download that plug in and jenkins' and you can install that.
But the better way that I used to do is to download the new gadget from Chocolaty.
So once again, I'm going to go to the chucklehead packages.
And there if you go to the new get this, you can see that you can find a new get package, come online
or here so you can download this and you can install it in a machine, as usual, that we did in our
previous videos for MSG Test or Mabon, etc..
Right.
So I have already downloaded that in my machine as ending a three point six and NUGA.
So these are the two tools that I have already downloaded and kept in my machine as a package.
Right.
So I can just do that by referencing it.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to reference this new Gadot XY this time.
So as I already said, there is no out of the box support in Jenkin where you can specify the Newgate
packages in your configuration of the particular project.
What you can do is basically you can just go to this bold action and here you can just execute a batch
script and here you can specify the Newgate that e right.
And then you need to restore the packages which is required for this particular project.
Right.
So in order to do that, there is a command called Restor, which is going to restore the reference
package for our project.
And if you ask me, very sensitive for this project is going to have all the restoration information,
because in May when we have something called password XML file, and how about here in the business
to be a project?
So actually, if you go to the project in the GitHub and if you go to the repo here in this rhenium
in Param, and if you go to this guy inside the same name and there's something called a packet to start
config.
So this is the information which is required by NUGA to restore all the packages.
So it's going to store the Internet and driver for this version and then an MBA program, drivers,
backflow and Gilgo drivers.
So it is going to do all this restoration, right.
So that is what is required for the Internet to be restored.
I'm sorry for the NUGA to be restored, so I'm going to just call this and then I'm going to restore
for this particular sidedly solution.
Right.
So now I'm just going to save it because this is going to execute automatically the solution for us.
And now, if I tried to build this time, hopefully it should have the execution without any problem.
Hmm.
What does it say this time, this broader difference than you get?
I think you have wrongly chosen or what?
Oh, my God, I think the problem is because we have to do one more thing, it is this so you can see
that nebulized up.
What we did is we have to call the Newgate package RESTOR before the Emmetsburg itself.
So we have missed that step.
Right.
So this is the flow we need to restore the details, files required, and then we need to do a build
itself.
Right.
So I'm going to save it.
And now if I tried to build it this time, hopefully it should run fine without any problem.
Let's see if I go to the console output.
There you go.
Seems like the build is happening and you can see that the five packages to the package are config project
have been installed.
So this is the same package file that I showed you before.
Right.
So everything is success right now.
And you can see that this time is in blue color, meaning to success.
Right.
So this is how you can do a restoration of package using Newgate and then try to build the project.
The final thing which I'm going to do is to run a very, very simple test and see how it works.
So for running US test, we need to have something.
Gala's in the unit so any unit is again going to be a separate tool, which I have already downloaded
from chuckleheads.
So you can also do that.
So again, the option is pretty simple and straightforward here.
Do not run the particular test.
All you have to do is to specify the it in the Adbul step.
Right.
And then you can execute the Windows Bache command and here you can specify the Indian it.
So I'm just going to go to the tools folder again and then I'm going to choose the admin console runner.
I'm going to copy this part and then I'll come over here and specify that or here.
And then if you just specify at this particular exit and then if you specify the other file, you all
good to go.
So in order to specify the detailed files, actually you have to hop over to your GitHub, which I have
already started my machine.
And if you go to this GitHub and if you.
Right.
Click to this particular repo and open an explorer, you can see that the other side is actually sitting
under bin debug.
And here is the file.
Right.
Here's the yellow file sitting.
These are Perama.
So I'm going to copy this path and I'm going to come over here.
I'm going to pass it over here.
That's it.
So if I run this particular if I can just run it.
But instead of specifying the hardcoded party here, which is not required, I can just delete this
fully and I can just specify the project level part, because this is more than enough for me and I'm
going to change the forward slash from backward slash.
Right.
And I'm going to remove this semicolon as well.
So this is where it is.
I mean, you will have a and an IT consultant and then the detailed file.
That's it.
Right.
So you can see that we are going to restore the neural packages.
We're going to build the solution, and then we're going to run a test from this little file.
I'm going to say this again.
And now, if I try to build this time, you can see that hopefully if everything is fine, it is going
to automatically build and then it's also going to run the console.
You can see that and you're considering running.
And right now you can see that the automation testing is also running.
So it is opening the browser, running for your test here.
There you go.
And there is one more browser opened and is also running on motors here.
Boom.
Cool, you can see that this also got past here and the finace and the results success as well for these
two test, right.
So this is how you can very quickly do a test for the Dockland application as well in the freestyle
project for Jenkins.
And you can see that that just got passed here.
So in our next video, we'll do exactly the same thing, but rather using the freestyle, we are going
to make use of the pipeline and we'll also use the stage and we'll see the progress, as we saw before
in our previous video.
And with that in our pipeline discussion.
And after that, we'll spin up and start understanding how to work with agents, how to work with cross
browsers and docker's and much more.
Right.
So that's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 14 -Working with Pipeline project for .Net application ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I'm from execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 14 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about creating pipeline project for Dotnet application for build
and testing.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch part 11, 12 and 13, since this part is
going to be a continuation of that part.
So in our previous video, we discussed how to create a freestyle project for a application and how
to build the application and restore the NuGet packages and how to run an end unit test without using
the plugins rather directly using the tools to perform those operations.
Just pretty straightforward and very, very easy as well.
And now we are going to do exactly the same thing using pipeline instead of doing with the freestyle,
right?
So for that, I'm going to hop over to our Jenkins and I will show you how to do all those operations
using pipelines project.
Right?
So for that, I'm going to flip to Jenkins.
So this is the one which we are working on in our previous video, right?
So I'm going to go to the dashboard again and I'm going to click this new item, and this time I'm going
to choose the pipeline.
And let's call this as Dotnet pipeline and hit.
Okay, So this time we're going to run with a pipeline.
And once again, for the pipeline, it is going to be pretty much the same thing.
Instead of the UI, we are going to make use of what is called as a Jenkins file.
Right?
This is the groovy script again.
And you know, what is the syntax?
We can just go to the pipeline syntax and do the operation pretty much exactly like what we did for
Java.
So what I'm going to do this time is instead of going to the pipeline syntax once again and drilling
down what is the each and every operation for Windows batch script and all those things, because we
know what is really it's going to be I'm going to do a try this time.
Maybe what I'm going to do is like, I can go to the localhost 8080 once again and I'm going to go to
the Dotnet freestyle project and I'm going to cheat.
Or maybe I can I'm going to copy some of the commands from here and then I'm going to execute that.
So basically we know what is this?
So I'm going to copy this.
So if you go to the git and if you're going to paste this thing in here and if you just generate a pipe,
you can see that all is going to put is the git and there is a colon.
That's it, right?
So I'm going to do this.
So maybe I'm going to do a stage and I'm going to specify checkout, checkout code, right?
So this is the first stage.
And then there is one more stage where we can specify maybe what is called as a build right?
Or first of all, we need to restore NuGet package.
So restore NuGet.
So for restoring the NuGet we know what is the command.
So if I go to the Dotnet freestyle, we just give this particular command and this command we are going
to execute using what is called as a Windows batch script, right?
So I'm going to paste this and generate and you can see all it's doing is this part of this command
pretty much exactly the same thing, right?
So I'm going to copy that.
I'm going to paste it over here.
That's it.
And then there is one more stage, which is going to be the build stage where it is going to run the
Ms. build.
So for building what I'm going to do again, Bat and I can just copy the command from here and I can
paste it.
So for the build order it's going to do is it's going to call the Ms. build and it's going to perform.
But since this time it's going to be a little different.
Maybe I can just do this, I can go over here, but you will figure out that there won't be such kind
of command here because there is nothing like that.
So instead of doing that, we have to go with our what is called as a Windows batch script.
So again, what I'm going to do is I'm going to paste some of the code that I have already written for
this particular project.
You can see that it's a bat, and then I'm going to I'm going to specify the build, which is nothing
but the Ms. build here, right?
And then this is the solution name.
And then I have to run this in a debug mode and the platform is any CPU and product version.
Is this right?
So this is the one change that we have to specify here then compared to what it had before with the
freestyle project.
Right.
That's the only big change I guess.
So we have a checkout, we have restore, we have a bird.
And finally, we have to add one more stage here.
We can call it as a testing stage or test stage.
And here, once again, I have to run what is called as this command, right, this file.
So again, I'm just going to call the bat and then I'm going to paste it over here.
Something like this.
Right.
There we go.
So we have a checkout, restore, build and test right now.
That's it.
That is the only great.
Change that we are going to make for the pipeline project and then I'm going to save it.
So now I'm just going to build this pipeline project and see what's really going to happen if we get
any error across my finger.
Oops, I guess we got an error very quickly.
Um, it says there is an unexpected error.
All right.
I guess we have to go to configuration here for this and let's try to remove this double quotes.
I guess because of this double quotes, there is some problem being happening and that's the reason
it was.
And also, this is going to be not double slash because in the world of groovy you have to specify a
backslash for front slash for everything.
So I think that is the other reason why it is showing us an error.
So I did not notice that before while changing it.
I think right now we're good, right?
C Colon tools.
All right, I'm going to save it.
And now if I try to build it, let's cross my finger.
No, we got an error while doing a checkout required contest class Hudson Launcher is missing.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
Remember in our previous videos, we were running this under a node, so you can see that if I give
this node, if I don't give this node, it is not going to run.
So we have to do a configuration once again.
I don't know what happened to me today.
Days just running out of mind.
Maybe I have to specify that before and I'm going to specify everything under a node block, something
like this, right?
So I'm going to save it.
And now if I try to run this finally, I guess this time it is going to execute.
Yep.
So right now you can see that the code checkout is really happening and restored.
NuGet is also happening and then we need to have a build and test boom build is very fast.
And finally the test.
So the test should open the browser.
I guess the browser is opening.
There we go.
So first test got passed for the automation website and the next test is going to run for the Google
website.
Yep.
So happening for the google website just got succeeded.
Right now.
At least the build got succeeded this time without any problem because we have all these stages being
executed.
Right?
So this is how you can perform an operation for the pipeline in the Dotnet project, right?
So that's it, guys.
This is how you can see that, how easy it is to perform and execute an operation in pipeline and as
compared to a freestyle project.
And I guess the pipeline is really, really awesome because it is more like an intuitive and you just
specify a few lines of code here and the code is also not very great code here.
Just to specify the stage and what are the command that you specify and then you save it and run it.
You get the answer very quickly, along with a very good visual experience.
Right.
So that's it, guys.
From our next video, we'll start working on how to perform the same kind of operation, maybe a little
twist.
We can configure an emailing client and see how we can send an email once the build is fully done.
So thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 15 - Configuring email using Docker container for Jenkins 2.0 (Part A) ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 15 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about configuring email notification with Jenkins 2.0.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch part 14, since this part will have some
similarities from that part.
All right.
So let's see what really we are going to discuss in configuring email notification Email notifications
with Jenkins 2.0.
So far we have discussed creating a freestyle project and pipeline project, and also we saw how to
build, test and create a reporting with the projects using the freestyle and pipeline project.
But we have missed the most important notification part to the team.
Every time a build is completed, which is nothing but the email notification because email notification
is a key player for a continuous integration system where every time a build is created, it has to
be notified to the team so that they can be aware of what's really happening to their build.
So we are going to configure our own Smtp server to perform emailing demonstration, so which Smtp server
we are going to use.
We are going to use a Docker container based email client named mail dev.
So as you can see in the screenshot below, we are going to use this mail dev client from Docker container
to perform that operation.
So if you are really confused about what's running and bringing in Docker here again, guys in our automation
channel, we have exclusively talked about Docker a lot, like understanding the ABC of Docker video
series Docker on Windows Video series and configuring Docker with Selenium Automation.
Those are different kinds of courses we have already released in Automation Channel, and of course
there are free as well.
So please go ahead and watch those videos.
You can have a clear understanding of how the Docker actually works, but really we're not going to
talk about how Docker works here, but we are going to make use of an existing container called mail
dev, and then we are going to perform that operation of configuring the mail client within our Jenkins
to create an email notification, right?
So let's quickly see this in action and understand how things work.
So for that, I'm going to flip to our Windows 10 virtual machine.
So what I'm going to do this time is I'm going to go over here, this particular URL, the mail dev,
and you can see here it is an Smtp server plus a web interface for viewing and testing emails during
development.
So it is exclusively used for viewing and testing the emails to see if the email notification is really
appearing for them or not.
And how you can configure this mail.
Dev server is very, very simple.
You can use via NodeJS or you can run via Docker.
And also there is a source code where you can install that in your local machine to perform that operation.
But right now we are going to make use of the Docker because Docker is a very, very easy solution than
anything else in the world.
So I'm just going to use this.
So for that I'm going to go and run the PowerShell as an administrator, right?
And you can see the Docker is already installed in my machine.
That's why I can able to run the Docker command here.
So once I execute this, it is checking for the latest tag from the Docker hub and it seems that there
is an latest image already available in my machine.
So I can just do Docker images and I can see that I have this particular Docker image available in my
machine right now, right?
So I'm just going to clear the screen and in order to start this particular mail server, what we actually
have to do is you can just scroll down a little here.
You can see there is something called as Docker run Hyphen P is for the port and this 1080 is the port
which is exposed to the host machine and 80 is the internal container port and hyphen P is again the
port, which is going to be exposed for the Smtp server to communicate to the external world.
And this is 25, which is the internal port which is used within this container.
And then this is the image which is going to execute Again, guys, these are something which we have
already discussed a lot in our Docker video series of the Automation channel, So please go ahead and
watch that.
So I'm just going to copy this command and then I'm going to paste it over here and then I'm going to
execute.
You can see that it is really going to start our mail server running in my machine.
So simple it is.
You have installed a mail server and also you have installed a mail server UI client to see that operation.
So all you can do is go to the local host colon.
So there is a port just sitting in this 1080.
So you can.
Copy that.
I'm going to paste it over here and then I'm going to hit enter.
You can see that right now it is going to receive a mail from this particular UI.
And you can see that right here.
So it's very, very simple.
There is a very super intuitive UI here and you can search the mail if you receive it and you can also
check this alert so that you can get an alert notification in your browser and you can see how to configure
this.
It's very simple, right?
So I'm not going to use this configuration option because it's very simple in.
Jenkins Right.
So all I'm going to do this time is our mail client is running and our Smtp server is also running.
So we have everything set here.
All I'm going to do is I'm going to go to our Jenkins this time in order to configure the email option,
I actually have to hop over to the Manage Jenkins here.
So again, remember, guys, these are something which we have already discussed in our previous videos
of this Jenkins video series.
In order to configure something globally, there is something called as a global tool configuration.
But if you are going to configure a system which is nothing but the Jenkins system, then you got to
go to the configure system option, right?
So within this particular option, if you just scroll a little bit, you can see there is something
called as an Smtp server, right?
Extended email notification.
There is an Smtp server.
So what do you think the Smtp server name is going to be?
Do you think it is something like localhost colon 1080.
If you thought that then you are pretty much correct.
You can just give localhost here.
And if you're wondering where to give this port, you can just click this advanced button here and then
you can type the one zero.
Oops.
1080.
Right.
So 1080.
And then I'm going to change the default content type from plain text to HTML, and then I'm just going
to save it.
So this way our email notification is configured with the Jenkins system, right?
So now we have a mail server and we have a mail client and we have configured this mail server with
this port 1025 with the Jenkins.
But I actually missed the most important part here.
I'm so sorry for that because we need to receive the email Smtp from 1025 port number.
We should not really use the 1080 here.
Rather we should use 1025.
See, I missed a big thing here, so I'm just going to change this to 1025 and then I'm going to save
it again.
Guys, this is the Smtp port, not the port, which is going to be used for accessing your email client
here.
Sorry for the confusion, but actually the port is 1025, not the 1080.
Right.
So that's it.
I'm just going to save it again.
Right.
And the last thing which we need to do, the most important thing as well, is going to be configuring
the email notification within our job.
So we have to go over here in the job and then we have to configure the emailing option so that every
time you do a build trigger you will get an email notification once the build is completely executed.
So please stay tuned for the next video and we'll discuss about that.
And once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 16 - Configuring email using Docker container for Jenkins 2.0 (Part B) ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 16 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about configuring email notification with Jenkins 2.0.
And this is part B, so meaning you need to have a clear understanding on what we discussed on Part
A before watching this part again, which is Part 15, where we discussed all these informations.
So before watching this part, as I already said, please watch part 15 so that you can have a clear
understanding of what we're going to discuss in this particular video.
All right, so let's flip to our Windows 10 virtual machine and start where we left over.
So, so far in our previous video, we saw how to configure the mail client and the Smtp server in our
Jenkins.
And now we are going to get an email notification from the Jenkins to the Smtp server.
So in order to do that, we are going to open one of the job that we have.
Again, I'm going to open this particular selenium with cucumber pipeline project and then I'm going
to go to the configure option and here is where we can actually configure our email notification.
So in order to set the email notification, since it's a pipeline, if you come down here, you will
never find an UI option where you can configure the email Smtp server or the from or to email ID where
you have to send the email, but you can do via the pipeline syntax once again.
So let's open the pipeline syntax and then the sample step.
If you can see here we have an option called email text, extended email.
Remember this is the same name that we saw in our Smtp server as well, the Smtp extended email right
during the configuration.
So I'm going to choose that.
And within the two box here, you can give any of the email ID that you want for your organization.
So for instance, I'm going to give Karthik at Execute automation.com and the recipient provider.
I'm not going to set any provider here, so I'm just going to leave it and the subject we're going to
say like build executed, build execution completed in the body of the message.
We can say build execution completed with we can just say something like checkout test and reporting.
So this is like a dummy message that I'm just giving.
But you can also configure the dynamic data as something like the build version and when it has executed
and which branch it has executed all those information, you can get it from the list of define variable
which can be used within the Jenkins.
So you can do that as well.
But as of now, I'm just going to set this very, very default, right?
And then I'm going to leave this advanced for now.
And then if I hit this generate pipeline script, you can see that we will get a message here with the
email text.
There is a body and there is a checkout and there is an information on the subject and the two.
Right.
So I'm just going to copy all of them and I'm just going to hop over to our Selenium with Cucumber project.
And within this stage I'm going to create one more stage here and let's call this as email and let's
paste this whole code that we copied from the syntax over there, right?
So let me just do some formatting maybe, All right.
And then I'm just going to save it.
Very, very simple.
Straight forward.
You can see that we just took the snippet from here, from the syntax generator, and then we just paste
it over here.
That's it.
And now if I try to build this particular job, you can see that it is going to start executing by checking
out the code, then building and testing the code and then generating the report.
So it is going to do all these operation for us this time as well.
And you can see that the build and test is going to take at least one minute, 59 seconds, which is
close to two minute.
So once every execution is done, I'll be back.
All right.
Seems like the generation of the report is done and the email is also being sent.
And now hopefully we should get an email to our mail dev client.
So let's quickly hop over to the mail Dev and see if we have an email over here.
Oops, over here.
Yep.
We have an email here.
As you can see here, the email shown is here is one and it says build execution is completed.
And if I click this, it says Build executed.
Build execution completed with a checkout test and reporting.
Right.
So this is the same message that we gave in the build step, right?
So now we can see that message as well.
So you can get an email notification instantly.
Once the build is fully done, it will send you an email to your email client so you can see that it
is very, very easy to use the Docker container to configure an Smtp server and every time it is also
going to be sending you an email to your mail client and you can perform that operation using mail dev.
Right.
It is pretty easy and straightforward and you can see that the whole process, you know, is kind of
getting elaborated with the checkout build test, generate report and email and all those stuff.
Kind of very staged.
And we have so much of information over here, right?
So that's it, guys.
This is how you can perform an email notification using Docker container within your Jenkins to perform
an operation.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 17 - Working with build triggers ---

Hi, guys, my name is Karthik and I am from Automation Dotcom, and welcome to part 17 of or the deployed
test with Jenkins' 2.0 for Java and C shale producers.
And this will be talking about military service Jenkins' 2.0.
So before I take this part, I would like to watch Part 16, since this part is going to be a complete
continuation of that part.
All right, let's get started, Bill, together with Jenkins', Bill Richardson, Jenkins', let us
start a job on any specified event occurs.
So here I'm seeing any specified event occur.
So this event is actually nothing but the bootlegger's that I have specified in the screenshot below.
So this is the screenshot taken from one of our freestyle or pipelined job.
And you can see that within this particular year we have so many options or events like trigger build
remotely example from a script and then build on a Newgate update.
So if there is any update in the Newgate package, then you can trigger, rebuild or build after other
projects are built, built periodically.
GitHub, whole trigger for assembling and polling ACM.
So all these are self explanatory here.
So I don't really have to explain anything here.
But as you can see that we can do a bit trigger for or jenkins' job so that it can automatically execute
and build our project, run the test or deploy the application in the remote machine once any one of
the specified event occurs.
Right.
So let's quickly see this in action and understand how things work.
So for that, I'm going to flip do Jenkins.
So in our previous videos, we were working on the Document Freestyler Project.
Right.
And then we also worked on Document Pipeline Project.
So now what we're going to do is I'm going to go to the document pipeline project once again here.
And what I'm going to do basically is I'm going to do a configuration for setting a trigger.
So as you can see, there are so many triggers here, like build on any updates after that, but periodically
get her policy quiet period and then trigger remotely.
So right now, what I'm going to do is for the demonstration purposes, I am going to show you the periodically
options where you can periodically execute a burn after a certain point of time.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is like I'm just going to schedule a time here.
But if you are really not aware of the syntax, the very best option here to get the syntax of what
is specified in the schedule is to click this help option.
You can see that the help option is very handy for us because it says that this is the minute is the
hardware.
This is the data for months and months and did of the Veck, something like that.
Right.
So you can specify all of them or here.
And if you specify a star then which means it is all the valid values.
And if you specify M to N is specifying the range of values and if you as A to Z eliminates multiple
values and there are some examples also available here in the documentation below, and you can use
that.
I mean, it's up to you like how you want to use it.
For example, if you want to execute every 10 minutes and you can specify this option, you can just
copy this and you get a backdoor here.
That's it.
You're good to go.
So you'd say that would last have run at Sunday, February 18, 2017.
Ten, twenty five.
So it is something like after ten thirty five p.m. EDT, it is going to execute this, this particular
trigger.
Right.
So I'm not going to do all these things, but for this demonstration of purpose, the very simple thing
I'm going to do is I'm just going to specify cha cha cha cha cha cha cha.
So what does it mean?
It is going to execute after every minute of the the specified event.
Right.
So now, if I just specify this and if I had to save here, you can see that the four is the last job
run.
And if I go to the dashboard, you can see that the executor will start one of the job within a minute.
So you can see that quickly.
It picked up and started to run the execution right now.
And if I go here, you can see that currently it is running something over here.
So you can see that like for every minute it is going to execute the test for us.
You can see that there is a test is also happening that is happening.
So it is happening for every minute.
Actually, it is not advisable to execute each and every minute, but just for demonstration purposes,
I'm just showing you, like, how you can set a trigger event for your freestyler pipeline project.
So I'm going to quickly go to the configure option once again.
And I'm going to disable this for now because it is going to be a bottleneck for my machine of.
Because it's going to execute after every minute and so so I'm just going to save it right now and he
can see that this is actually happening.
The execution is happening.
Right.
And the execution is also happening.
So this is how you can perform a big trigger in Jenkins using some simple options.
Right.
So that's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 18 - Configuring Build Agents for Jenkins 2.0 ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I'm from execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 18 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about configuring agents in Jenkins 2.0.
So before I think this part I would request you to watch part 17 since this part is going to be a complete
continuation of that part.
All right.
So let's get started.
Agents in Jenkins.
Jenkins supports the master slave mode, where the workload of building projects are delegated to multiple
slave nodes following a single Jenkins installation to host a large number of project and to provide
different environments needed for build and test.
So here the slave is nothing but the agent, so it is used interchangeably in Jenkins world, where
if you specify agents, the agent is nothing but the slave.
So if you just search for slave in the Jenkins UI, you will never find it.
But actually the slave here is actually the name of the of the agent where it is previously called in
Hudson.
So that's why they are calling it as slave here.
Right.
So nothing big deal here, but actually slave and agents are pretty much the same thing.
So as the paragraph says, I actually just copied this content from the Jenkins page directly.
So nothing a big deal here.
So it actually says that if you want to delegate the execution of your workload into multiple machines,
agents are really, really helpful.
Right?
So we are going to use this agents to delegate our task as a name.
It is we are going to use the agent for Jenkins.
So there are different ways of starting slave agents or then slave agents.
Of course, here is much meaningful because it is a combination of both.
So there are different ways for starting the slave agent, something like having a master launch slave
agent where SSH or have a master launch slave agent on Windows and write your own script on launch.
Jenkins slave or launch the slave agent via Java Web Start.
So the fourth option is something, which is what we're going to discuss in this particular video of
this video course, because this is very simple.
All you have to do is just download the slave jar file, run it in a Java web start, and it will just
run the agent for you and you can perform the operation.
It's pretty, pretty straightforward and very easy to use as well.
So we're going to use the fourth option.
And there is one more option, which is nothing but launching the slave agent heedlessly.
Again, it is pretty much the same thing like the fourth one.
But whereas the it is going to run is headless, meaning you cannot run any UI options, something like
that.
Right?
So let's quickly see this in action and understand how things work.
So for that, I'm going to flip to Jenkins.
So what I'm going to do for configuring the agent, we actually have to go to our Jenkins And once again
for configuring anything in Jenkins we have to go to this option.
The manage Jenkins option, right?
And then here we have something called as manage nodes.
So there is something called slave anywhere here.
So all nodes and agents, something like that.
So if you go to the nodes here, there is something called as new node, right?
So this is the master node.
Remember in our previous video series, we were actually using this master node to be specified for
our pipeline project, right?
That's exactly it is.
So I'm going to configure a new node here this time for delegating a work beyond this build executor
status that you are seeing here is ideal.
So this is the build execute status of the the master node.
But we are going to create one more agent.
So we will have two more executors.
So again, you can specify the executor numbers if you want, right?
So I'm going to give a node name here.
Let's call this as, let's say I'm just virtually saying that it is running in a Ubuntu machine, so
it is going to be an ubuntu agent and I'm going to make this as a permanent and I'm going to hit.
Okay.
So this is how in a real world it happens.
Basically if you're going to specify an agent in multiple machines, that's where your actual workload
load balancing is going to happen.
It's not like if you can create multiple agents in your own machine, the same machine, it's not going
to run parallelly even if it is going to run Parallelly it is going to slow down your machine.
So you have to specify or install the agent in different machines to see a real performance of using
the agent, right?
So the first thing we need to do is the number of executors you want to have.
Let's say there are two executors already, so I'm going to set executors as three and then I'm going
to label it.
So maybe I'm going to label it as Ubuntu, something like that.
Pretty much the same name.
And then the usage of this node is use this node as much as possible, not only for building a job,
right?
This and the root node is very, very important.
So this is where your actual files are going to sit, which are you are building.
So let's say I'm going to call this as a temp and let's call this as an agent, something like that.
Right?
Let's call this as Ubuntu agent maybe.
Ubuntu agent.
Right.
And the launch method.
As I said, there are four launch methods available and I'm going to select the launch agent web start
and keep this agent online as much as possible as well.
And then I'm going to hit save.
So I'm not going to save any node properties here.
Let it be there.
But once we have created a node, it will be an offline state because we have not started any jar file
yet where it can start the slave for us.
And you can see that the current status is offline.
So now if I go to the Ubuntu you can see that we have something called as a launch agent from the browser.
So if you're going to specify this, it is going to launch the browser the agent from the browser itself.
But I'm not going to take this method this time.
Maybe I'm going to take.
The second option that you can see here is to download a slave jar.
We can see that it is going to download something for us, is sitting in my downloads folder and then
you can just specify this particular command to execute that.
Right.
Pretty straightforward.
So let's quickly do this.
I'm going to go to the download folder of my machine and let's run this as an administrator mode.
And here I'm going to say Java hyphen Jar, slave dot jar and this particular jnlp URL, we have to
specify that because there is a secret key as well.
So I'm going to copy this and then I'm going to paste it over here.
And if I hit enter, you can see that it is going to start a slave agent for us.
And now if I do a refresh by going back there, you can see that our Ubuntu is also available and currently
it is not offline, it is running.
Right.
So now you can see that we have a master and we have a ubuntu agent as well.
So it is going to execute whichever task that you're going to specify in that particular node.
So for a quick test, let's say what are we going to do is I'm going to go to the dashboard, go to
the Dotnet pipeline and here for the configure instead of the node that we have specified as we have
not specified anything.
So if I specify the node as ubuntu and if I hit save.
It is going to take the Ubuntu.
And now let's try to build.
And if I go to the Jenkins this time you can see that it is going to execute our test in the.
Ubuntu.
We can see that the part of the dotnet pipeline is actually executing the ubuntu agent.
Right.
So you can see that the test is actually executing.
So this is how you can actually create an agent and configure that agent in your Jenkins and also you
can execute the build on that particular agents, executors, right?
So that's it guys.
This is how you can configure it and it is pretty much straightforward and easier as the name it is,
right?
We are going to make use of the agent a lot in our upcoming videos of this course because while we execute
the test on multiple browser, agents are very, very important.
So we are going to make use of that, Right?
So that's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 19 - Working with Jenkins Blue Ocean plugins ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I'm from execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 19 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we're talking about Blue Ocean UI, UX improvement for Jenkins 2.0.
And this is completely a topic where it is nothing to do with Jenkins learning itself, but this is
really a feature of Jenkins 2.0 where the Jenkins will slowly transform its complete UI, the old UI
that we are seeing for a pretty long time right now is going to be transformed into blue oceans very
soon I guess.
But the blue ocean is really very improved.
UI UX, but not the full feature is developed yet.
But there are few UIs right now which has the UI UX of the Jenkins change.
But, but yes, this is really cool.
So the UI will look something like this.
As you can see here, it has a very, very neat interface where you can see the status of the build
being executed, the build number, the commit details and the durations.
And there is a progress bar as well.
And you can do a rerun if you want.
And there is a branch and you can see there is a pipeline option on the right hand side where it shows
like there's a bird and there is a test happening for different frameworks and there is a browser test
happening in different browsers and there are all the different steps are going in.
All these are displayed on the on the on the screen itself.
And the interface is really cool, at least for the pipeline sake.
You can see how intuitive it is.
So let's quickly see this in action and understand how things work.
So for that, I'm going to flip to Jenkins right now.
So in order to make your Jenkins to have Blue Ocean plugin, you need to go to the manage Jenkins once
again and you need to go to the manage plugin and here you can just go to the available and then you
can search for what is called as a blue ocean.
Here you can see there is something called as blue Ocean beta.
So I'm going to choose the beta version and then I'm going to install the restart.
I guess I need to restart after installing this.
So let's quickly see what is really going to happen and you can see that the plugin is going to be installed
and there are so many changes has to be made for this particular plugin.
So this is not just a very, very small change in the Jenkins itself.
You can see that a lot of things are changing while you install the beta version of the blue ocean because
it has to manage with different kinds of options in the Jenkins right now.
So once the complete installation and upgradation is going to happen for my Jenkins, I'll be back.
All right.
Seems like the installation is done, but there are so many failures, so I don't know it's really going
to work or not.
But let me try to log out and log in again and see if it if we really get the blue ocean or not.
Nope.
I don't think I will get it if I just do a log off and log in.
So I'm just going to stop the Jenkins completely and then I'm going to start the Jenkins all over again.
And I guess after that we can see the blue ocean.
You can see that the Blue Ocean dashboard or JP is disabled and something is really happening while
we start as a first instance of Jenkins.
If we just run the Jenkins by logging in and logging off now, it's not going to really work, so I'm
going to go to the localhost 8080 once again.
So it's getting ready.
So now if I try to log in, you can see that we have a blue ocean UI and let me open this blue ocean
UI.
You can see that right now we have a very, very cool intuitive UI.
As you can see here, there is a dashboard and it says the basic freestyle Dotnet pipeline projects,
surname Cucumber project and also shows the health very neat this time.
And it also there is an option to filter it if you want to.
You can see you can set a favorite option here.
And this is the basic freestyle.
So if we go to the Dotnet pipeline project and if I open this, you can see that it also shows as a
very neat staging options here, like the checkout Restore NuGet batch and test.
And you can see that within the Restore NuGet If I just expand this, it also shows us a the information
in a very cool UI and this is really, really cool because it is much refined than the previous UI that
we are seeing so long and we have been bored with that UI for a pretty long time right now.
Right.
And you can see there is a changes, if there is any and there is a test or there is an artifact if
there is any.
So all these informations will be available over here.
And if you go to the settings, once again you can see that you will again end up with the same UI.
So this one is not yet in the blue ocean, so it is still the same UI and you can see there is a open
blue blue ocean here once again.
So again, not every page of the Jenkins has been updated.
As I already said, there are few changes here and there.
So even if you go to the administrator, you will end up to the old Jenkins UI only, right?
So there is not much changed yet, but this is the only change.
This is the UI look and feel that you have.
You can see here it's changed.
And if you hit run here once again, you can see there is a status information of what's really happening
and you can see the duration of how long it is taking.
And if you go inside here, you can also see what is really happening.
So there is a checkout being happening and you can see everything has sync this time.
Everything, all the information is very clearly displayed of what's happening behind the scene.
And you can see the build is happening and then the test is really running right now.
So everything is pretty fast right now and very clean as well.
So I really like the UI, for the matter of fact that this is very helpful to see what stage we are
currently in, the build execution.
So while we work with the multiple browser in our upcoming videos of this course, you will understand
this particular UI is much more useful than it is right now.
Right?
So that's it guys.
This is what is the blue ocean UI.
Not much thing here, but this is really important to know that something cool is going to happen for
Jenkins in near future.
Right?
So once again, guys, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 20 - Cross browser testing with Selenium (Part A) ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I'm from Execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 20 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
And in this video we'll be talking about parallel Cross-browser testing with Jenkins 2.0.
And before watching this part, I would request you to watch part 18 since this part is going to be
a complete continuation of that part.
All right, so let's get started.
Parallel Cross-browser testing.
So Cross-browser testing is one of the most important part of a UI testing due to large ecosystem of
browsers.
And the problem with CSS or JavaScript behaving differently in different browsers.
And that's why we are majorly going for a cross-browser testing because Cross-browser testing is one
of the most important part in any organization because you might have encountered where your manager
will come and say that we have to test the application in Internet information server or Firefox or
Chrome, something like that.
So Cross-browser is important to test the same functionality in multiple browser and see if the application
really behaves as expected and running hundreds of tests on each and every browser manually or in an
automated fashion is really a time consuming process and hence parallel execution is the only answer
to resolve this issue.
For instance, if you're going to run a test on a Chrome browser, once the build has been kicked in
and your test has to be performed on a Chrome browser, it's okay.
But if you want to perform the same test on a chrome Firefox and IE after each and every build has been
kicked in, then it's going to take a time because if one test case it's okay.
But if you have like thousands of test cases running, each test in different browser is going to take
like two hours, then your automated test is going to take six hours for running in three different
browsers.
So it's really important that you also take care of what is called as a parallel execution.
So how can we achieve this parallel execution then?
Well, in Jenkins we have something called as parallel where we can achieve this parallelism via running
the test on a different agent using the parallel keywords.
Again, here, we are not really going to change any of the code in the C-sharp project because you
might have encountered where if you are going to use a parallel test for your framework or your source
code of the automation, you have to change a lot of thing.
Basically, you have to take care of the Webdriver instance variable where you need to make the webdriver
variable for each and every browser to be available.
For instance, if you say the Webdriver driver is equal to new Firefox driver, then it's going to run
the test only for the Firefox driver, right?
And if you try to make use of a chrome driver, it is going to throw you an error because it is already
set to Firefox driver.
So you need to have some dependency injections or context injections in your test and you have to carry
the object of the webdriver into your test across the framework and make the operation as expected.
So in order to overcome all these problem, we are going to make a few changes in the framework though.
But Jenkins parallel is going to behave different way.
You are going to specify the execution of a test in different browsers by means of some parameters,
something like that.
Once you do that and then your test is going to run on different agents, which is in your Jenkins already
configured.
And again, if you ask what is this agent, please go ahead and watch part 18 of this course because
we have already discussed about agents and how to configure agents on part 1718 I guess.
Right?
So you can watch that and understand how things work.
So this is what we're going to do in this particular course.
And in this video, we will be configuring a single test to perform an execution using the Jenkins.
And the next video, we'll be trying to execute the parallel execution.
Again, this is going to be a stepping stone for our next video.
So please watch this video so that you can have a clear understanding of what we are going to discuss
in our next video.
So let's see this in action and understand how things work.
So for that, I'm going to flip to our Jenkins, as usual.
So, so far in our project, we have been working on these projects.
As you can see here, the basic freestyle dot net freestyle dot net pipeline.
And this is the one which we were using the last right in our previous days.
And we tried to configure our test execution to run based on triggers as well in our previous videos.
And what I'm going to do this time is, as you can see here, our test is actually running in only one
browser or maybe a default execution.
But actually this project, this unit Param, is a very, very unique project where I have also explained
how you can parameterize the browser type from a command line interface, meaning you can also.
Has the browser type from a command line.
So if you ask where is this information are actually sitting?
If you directly go to our automation website, you can see there is an article saying passing parameters
to any new test via CLI using params and you can see that we have something called as hyphen params,
which is something you can pass from the command line interface of the nunit and you can just pass your
command line interface for the for the browser type and you can perform the operation.
So you can see that in our code.
Inside we have parameterized the browser type based on the value that we are passing in.
So you can see this is the code that we have written here where I'm getting the browser type.
From a command line interface using this particular option here, as you can see here, this is hyphen
hyphen params and there is a browser is equal to Firefox.
And if we just pass this, you can pass the value of Firefox into your test code and it is actually
a strongly typed.
As you can see, the browser type is actually an enum, so it is going to parse that particular strongly
type into this perfect enum and then it's going to return the browser type for you and based on the
browser type that you have passed in from the parameter, you are going to execute the test.
Once again, guys, these are something we have already discussed in this video, as you can see here.
So please go ahead and watch those videos, which is part 27 for BDD video series.
So you can just watch there.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm not really going to deep dive into this particular information.
Rather, I can quickly show you how things work.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to copy this guy.
I'm just going to copy this hyphen hyphen params colon browser is equal to Firefox and then I'm going
to come back to our Dotnet pipeline configuration and here I'm going to pass the params as Firefox here
for our test.
So what is it really going to happen?
Is it is going to run the test on the Firefox browser instead of Chrome browser, right?
So if you don't believe me, I'm just going to save this particular job.
And then if I try to build now, you can see that it is going to run the test only in the Firefox browser
rather running in the Chrome browser.
So the checkout is done and the restoration of NuGet is going to really happen, right?
And then there is going to be a build and the test has begun.
So once the test has begun, we expect the test to launch a Firefox browser.
So I'm just waiting for the Firefox browser to spawn.
All right.
Seems like the Firefox browser test is actually running behind the scene.
It is actually.
All right.
It seems like the Firefox browser has started initiation.
You can see that the Firefox browser is running here and the test has begun already.
So it is running the test of the automation in one browser and it is also running the test of the Google
search in the Firefox browser.
So there are like two browsers is being opened here.
You can see that the other browser has opened and it is running the Google Chrome Google test again
only in the Firefox browser.
So it is not really using the Chrome browser here, which is super cool, right?
So this is how you can see that we can parameterize the browser type over here within the oops, it
has somehow failed.
I don't know what is that?
So if I come down a little bit, what does it says?
All right.
It seems like some kind of exception, which is okay.
But the point is to show like how the things are actually working.
All right.
So now what I'm going to do is, again, I'm going to go back to my configure option here.
What I'm going to do is this time for the stage instead of the normal sequential execution, you can
see that the two browser actually spawned one by one each after one another.
Right?
I'm going to run them parallelly in multiple machines.
So in order to do that, I mean, if you want to run the test on a Firefox browser, then if you want
to run a test on a Chrome browser, I am going to write a stage here.
This time instead of the test, I'm going to change this to parallel testing or maybe parallel test,
and then I'm going to use a keyword called Parallel.
And then here I'm going to say Firefox, right?
So this is actually like a tag or a value.
You can specify anything you want, you can specify F or whatever you like.
This is like a tag, right?
So here I'm going to just say like for the Firefox, you just run this in parallel.
So I'm going to copy this over here, right?
And then for running in the Chrome, we can just specify once again a tag here and here you can just
copy this and paste it over here.
And instead of browser does Firefox, you can change this to oops, you can change this to Chrome,
right?
So this is going to run the test on a Chrome browser, right?
We do further modification in our next video to understand how things work instead of bumping all the
information on the same video and making things more harder.
So guys, please stay tuned for our next video to understand how things work.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Part 21 - Cross browser testing with Selenium (Part B) ---

Hey guys, my name is Karthik and I'm from execute automation.com.
And welcome to part 21 of our build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 for Java and C sharp.
In this video we'll be talking about parallel Cross-browser testing with Jenkins 2.0.
And this is part B of this continuation of part 20 videos.
So please go ahead and watch that video before watching this video because we are going to start from
that video only.
Right.
So let's get started.
So for that, I'm going to flip to our Jenkins right now.
So in our last video we did until here for the parallel execution, so we specified the param browser
is equal to Firefox and then params browser is equal to Chrome.
So which means this is going to execute the test for the Firefox and this is going to execute the test
for the Chrome.
And you can see that we have used a keyword parallel here and this is a tag to specify what kind of
execution is going to happen, right?
So I'm just going to save it right now.
And if I try to run this time right here, you can see that the build is actually happening.
And if I go back to my dashboard, you can see that part of the Dotnet pipeline job is actually running
in the Ubuntu agent.
You can see that the test has already started for the Firefox browser over here and there is one more
test starting in the Chrome browser on the same executors right here.
So now you can ask me like this is not really a parallel execution.
This is like a sequential execution happening because as you can see here, every time it is actually
executing only on a same executor instead of running in multiple executors.
So how to overcome this situation?
What is the mistake that we have made in our actual Dotnet pipeline project where it is actually running
all the tests in a same build executor So we can actually figure out this by going to the configure
option here.
And you can see that our complete test currently is running in a node Ubuntu.
So it is like a hard coded.
We are telling that.
Okay for this node ubuntu you run both of these tests parallelly.
So it is also making very much sense that we are restricting our test to actually run in only one node.
So in order to achieve a real parallelism using Jenkins, we have to split the nodes based on the browser
type.
So for the Firefox we need to run in a different node.
And for the Chrome browser, we need to run in a different node.
So for that what I'm going to do is I'm just going to remove this guy, the node from here altogether.
And I also have to showcase you very quickly like this particular parallel.
If you specify something like this as a Firefox or parallel Chrome or here, it works fine without any
problem.
But we also have to follow a little more syntax here.
So if you go to the pipeline syntax very quickly and if you search for what is called as parallel,
if you come down here, if you see somewhere something like parallel execute in parallel, right?
If you just see the help here, you can see that it takes a map of branch names to closures and an optional
argument fail fast, which terminates a branch upon a failure.
Another branch.
Right.
So how we specify the syntax is something like this parallel.
And then you specify the browser name as the first branch or something like that, or maybe Chrome in
our case.
And then there is a comma of which browser, right?
And then fail fast.
If you say true or false is against default, so we don't have to do anything.
So we have missed a comma in our syntax as well.
So maybe we can just give a comma here and to look more even you can see like this syntax, right?
You can actually do something like this.
So you can specify comma and you don't really have to specify a parallel here.
Rather, you can just specify chrome, right?
And then it works fine.
Or if you don't really have to give the comma here, you can just directly give what is called as a
parallel and then you can give something like this.
So anything is fine.
I mean, you can choose anything you want, so I can maybe choose this again, just going to reduce
some line of code for us.
And as I said, the node, right for that you can actually do something like this.
So now we can specify in which node it has to.
We don't really have to specify which node it has to execute, but here you can specify node something
like this, right?
And this will actually run the test on our node.
It makes more sense, right?
So you can see that node.
So this test is going to run in one node and again there is a node is going to run this particular browser
in another node.
And the thing here is actually that it is going to run on each and every node for us and also it is
going.
To run the test on an available node.
So, for instance, if you're going to run a test on some nodes and if the node is not really available,
then the test is not really going to run Parallely So it is going to wait for the node to be available
to run the test, right?
So this is how it is going to perform and I don't know what is it saying?
Suddenly it's saying the end of file is expected, but I think this is totally fine without any problem.
Oh, sorry.
I just have to give a comma there, right?
I think so.
This is fine.
All right.
So now everything looks fine.
So I'm just going to save.
All right.
And now if I try to build this project.
Oops.
We have an error as it is indicated there.
I think the syntax is not pretty perfectly coming over there.
So let me just go back to the configure here again.
Oops, I think I missed one more thing.
Basically, this whole test is also need to be executed in a node, right?
So even though we don't specify the ubuntu here, it is also very important that any test that you're
going to run is going to run within a node, right?
So we have to specify that as well.
So I'm just going to indent this code here to make it more readable.
So as you can see, this particular node is going to perform these jobs well.
We have to do this jobs as well.
All right.
So, oops, I think I missed one more thing.
I should have did this execution of node until here at least until to the stage because anyways these
are the parallel things are going to execute in a different node.
So maybe I can just enter it here.
All right.
So I'm just going to delete this.
So our Jenkins file is right now ready?
So now I'm going to save this.
But there are some cases where we may have some problems as well.
So the problem is something like sometimes the node will not able to allocate to the available node,
even though if it is because I'm right now running two nodes in the same machine, the actual delegation
of work in different nodes will not sometimes happen.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to try to build this right now and if I go to the dashboard this
time, you can see that the master is actually running one test and there is one more executor, which
is also executing the test.
So right now it is doing little parallel over here, but sometimes we may end up in using the same,
uh, same agent to perform the operations.
As you can see, the Chrome is not open here.
It's only the Firefox which is actually executing and it is running the test here.
All right.
So it came to the Selenium test, but by this time the Chrome should have also opened to perform the
operation.
But somehow the Chrome has not initiated.
So if I go to the Dotnet pipeline project, you can see that we have a failure.
So this is pretty much expected that, as I already said, the DLL will not be found by this time.
If I could drill down a little bit here, you can see that file not found.
So this particular DLL is not found and the Chrome browser is not initiated.
And the reason is because we actually are using the same agent.
What if if there is a same agent which is going to execute the test, it is actually going to fail,
right?
So in order to remove this confusion, what I'm going to tell is I'm going to explicitly tell this time.
All right.
For this particular node, you try to use what is called as our master agent.
And for the Chrome browser, you use the Ubuntu agent that we created.
So it's going to use the Ubuntu agent.
So right now you can see there is a master agent can execute one particular browser test and the ubuntu
agent is going to execute the chrome test.
But each and every agent actually has their own executors.
So it has like three executors in the ubuntu and it has two executors.
So I'm going to save this.
And right now if I try to build this guy, you can see that the bad guy is right now out and you can
go to the dashboard and see that right now it is going to execute the test on a multiple agents parallely
So you can see that the part of the data pipeline is running on the master and also in the so you can
see right now it has opened the Chrome and also the Firefox Parallely for us.
You can see they're executing.
So you can see the Firefox is again closed and the the chrome is actually spawned.
So right now it is much parallel than before, right?
So the same test is actually being executed in a multiple browser, same time without any problem.
And also we should see that the test should get passed this time instead of failed.
So you can see still the master agent is performing some operation and both of the agents are right
now idle state.
And now if I go to the Dotnet pipeline this time you can see that this is a green color or success.
And if I go to the console output this time, you can see that we actually have our test being executed
in multiple browser same time compared to compared to the previous one.
So this ends our parallel browser testing option using what is called as the parallel option available
in our Jenkins.
So you can see that this particular Jenkins file is right now a little more improved compared to before
because right now we have a parallel execution of.
Different browser at the same time.
And also we are doing like checkout, restore and build.
So as you can see that the Jenkins pipeline is really, really cool compared to what is called as a
freestyle jar because it has so many options and it's also much neater way of doing it.
The final thing, which I'm going to show before we end up this course, maybe this particular section
is going to be the open blue ocean.
So if we go to the open blue ocean option this time, you can actually see the more intuitive way of
displaying the result.
So if I click this, you can actually see that checkout restore new build.
And in the parallel test it actually showing you the Browse types as well, the Chrome and the Firefox.
This is really, really awesome because it also shows a very neat diagram here and your test is being
executed in multiple browsers and you can see the batch script which is being executed for each and
every test that is being happened here and for the build, what is really happening.
So everything is being seen much clearer in the blue ocean then compared to your classical way of displaying
the result as the stages in the UI?
Right.
So this is much easier.
So if I if I go to here, you can see that this has failed.
The chrome has failed because of some reason, but the Firefox test has got passed, right?
So this is also a way to showcase the theme that how the test has been executed using the Jenkins parallel
execution for different browsers.
Right.
So that's it, guys.
Once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Installing and Working with Jenkins Docker image ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Amazon.com.
And welcome to another video of our build deploy test with Jenkins course.
And today we are going to be talking about working with Jenkins with Docker Image.
And that's why I have changed the course name as build deploy test with Jenkins plus Docker.
So Jenkins, we have discussed so far in our previous videos on different sections of how to work with
Jenkins, with Dotnet, with Java and stuff, but now Jenkins with Docker is picking up a lot and a
lot of people are now using Jenkins along with the Docker images.
So we are going to be working with that in this particular video.
So.
Jenkins with Docker.
Jenkins with Docker, Image is now a de facto of CI CD.
A lot of companies are now using Jenkins within the Docker images.
It can be deployed either in an Azure Docker container or in an AWS Docker container or in an Google
Docker container.
And they just use the Jenkins Dockers straight from the images which is available, as you can see on
the left hand side.
So there are different images which is currently available in Docker Hub.
As you can see, like Jenkins and Jenkins, NLP Agent, Maven Jnlp Agent Node, Custom Packager, Auth
PCT Slave, and you can see that the downloads were like in millions and also in thousands.
So Jenkins, as you can see in the Docker images, is really a good move.
The reason is because now everybody is using towards the cloud services and having Jenkins within the
Docker image is really a great thing.
So Jenkins, as I said, has many images now in Docker Hub with different agent and configurations,
which are something that we are going to be installing in this particular video.
So before we start working with the Jenkins Docker images, we need to have the following prerequisite
software installed within our machine.
You should have a docker for Windows or Mac operating system installed within your machine so that you
can follow along with the course.
And before that the Docker for Windows can only work with Windows 10 Pro or Enterprise edition.
So if you have Windows 10 Home Edition, then this particular installation is not going to work.
And again, Docker for Windows and working with the Docker and Understanding Dockers, I have already
discussed about that in a separate course in our YouTube as well as in Udemy.
So you can go ahead and watch that.
And again, it's all completely for free, so you can go and learn from there.
But again, if you have a mac operating system, you don't really have to go through all these problems.
Docker for Mac will straight away work without any problem.
And the reason why Docker for Windows require an enterprise and Pro Edition is because the Enterprise
and Pro Edition actually has Hyper-V feature within it, and only if you enable the Hyper-V within your
windows, you can install the Docker for Windows.
And that's very, very important.
And that's the reason the Docker for Windows really requires you to have the Windows 10 pro or enterprise
edition.
So let's quickly install our Jenkins within our Docker image and we'll see how we can access the installed
Jenkins from the Docker container and use that within our local machine.
All right.
As you can see here, we have the installation guide for the Jenkins within our Docker.
So you can see that you need to install the Docker as the first thing.
And then if you have the Mac operating system or Linux operating system, then you need to follow these
commands.
And again, you can see that the commands for installing the docker is pretty simple and straightforward.
All you have to do is like Docker run of the user permission as root, and then you're going to be doing
an RPM and then you're going to do a hyphen D and hyphen P And again guys, these are something which
I have already discussed in my other courses in Udemy as well as in YouTube, So please go ahead and
watch there.
I'm really not going to be diving into this particular command because that's going to be confusing
at this particular context.
So I'm just going to copy the commands which is available over here.
And you can see that this is the command that you need to be using for running the Jenkins within your
Docker container and then you can start using it.
So the first thing I'm going to be doing is going to be opening a PowerShell and I'm going to be running
that as administrator mode.
So I have already installed the Docker within my Windows operating system.
And now if I just do something like Docker, you can see that I could able to see all the commands coming
in over here from my docker and I can do something like Docker images and you can see that it shows
me all the images that I have already downloaded from the Docker hub and once again, the Docker hub
is this one.
Just go to the Hub.docker.com.
This is where all the Jenkins images is actually sitting so I can just search for Jenkins and you can
see all the images coming in over here from the Jenkins.
And also you can see that some of the some of the images are not from Jenkins.
It's something like Jenkins x i, o So maybe those are the unofficial documentation.
So make sure that the images that you download is from official and maybe your known sources of it.
All right, So enough theory about the Docker hub.
So I'm just going to copy all these command and I'm going to paste it over here.
Oops.
And you can see that it's going to show me this error.
The reason is because of this slash that I have got.
So I'm going to make this as one line and then I will paste it over here so that you can see that it
is going to work without any problem.
So I'm just going to paste it.
So I'm just going to do that.
It's exactly the same command that we saw over there in the documentation, and then I'm going to hit
enter and you can see that once I do that, it is going to download the Jenkins CI Blue Ocean latest
version for me.
So that way it is going to have all the latest versions of Jenkins.
So as you can see that within my localhost colon 8080 I don't really have any Jenkins as of now.
So once it is installed, we can see the Jenkins over there.
And the meantime, you can also see that once the Jenkins is been installed, you can also see the password
of the Jenkins, which you can get during the installation process, which you can do using this particular
command Docker log of the container name or the container ID, You can do that.
This way it is going to be very easy for you to get the password from the installation part.
So I guess it's currently.
Are done.
There you go.
And now if I go to the maybe I can also show you like if I go to the Docker PS hyphen A and you can
see that this particular image is currently running over here.
So now I can just do this Docker logs of this container name, which is the container ID.
Once I do that, you can see it shows me the complete command over here.
It's up and running and now if I just go to the localhost, you can see that it says like, please wait
while the Jenkins is getting ready to work.
And it is kind of right now loading, which means it's going to do something for us over here.
And now if I just go to the.
To the logs like Docker ps hyphen A for this container id.
I can just see the logs, something like this.
And you can see that I actually have a password here for the Jenkins installation that I really require
over here.
Right.
So I can just give this and once I hit continue.
Oops.
You can see that it is going to do the installation.
For me, it's going to be pretty much exactly the same thing that we saw before.
The installation is going to be pretty much the same thing, but just that this time we are doing the
Jenkins installation within the Jenkins container in our local machine.
So basically the container is running within our local docker and the image is something which is sitting
in the Docker hub.
So we're taking the hub image from the Docker and then we are creating a container of the local Jenkins
within our machine and then we are running it.
So that's what we did here.
So if you could see here once again with the Docker PS hyphen A this is the Jenkins that we are running
within our own container and it is currently up and running for us over here.
So this way it installs the Jenkins for us within here and then we can use this Jenkins for running
our code that we executed before.
So if I go to the GitHub of Execute automation and let's say if I want to run the Selenium with Cucumber
so I can just clone this project or maybe copy this particular URL and then I can use that over here
within this particular Jenkins and then I can run this build process over here and I will see like how
the execution is going to happen.
So I'll wait for the installation to be completed and then I'll be back.
The installation is done right now, and then I'm going to create the username and password.
So it's going to be all admin and the first name is going to be execute automation and my email ID is
going to be this one.
And then I'm just going to hit Save and continue and it's going to run on the localhost, which is cool.
And then I'm going to start using the Jenkins and again, it's going to be pretty much like exactly
how we did before.
And as I said, I'm going to create a very, very super simple freestyle project this time and I will
show you how to work with it.
So I'm going to say from.
Jenkins Ah, Docker.
It's a freestyle project I'm going to hit.
Okay.
And since we already have copied that into our clipboard, I'm going to go to the git for the source
control.
I'm not going to give any credentials here.
And for the build process, I'm going to run the Maven and let's say I'm going to just run the Maven
goal as clean and I'm going to save and then I'm going to trigger the run.
But once I run this particular execution, you will see that it is going to fail, basically.
And let me refresh this over here.
So it's currently up and running.
I'm just going to go to the Jenkins here.
You can see that it is kind of failed this time.
And once I go to the failures console log, you can see that it says that cost Java io io exception
cannot run the program maven within this particular directory.
Var Jenkins home workspace from Jenkins Docker.
So what is this really happening and why is this really happening?
Well, the reason for this execution failure is because we are trying to run the Maven command from
within this particular container that we have actually created this one.
But just to let you know that this particular container is actually coming from the image that we downloaded,
which is nothing but the blue ocean image that we just downloaded.
But the problem with the blue ocean image of Jenkins is that you don't really have the Maven installation
within that particular image itself, so you need to have the Maven installed within that particular
Jenkins image so that you can use that within the code execution over here.
And this one we are going to be discussing in our next video and I will show you how to resolve this
problem and how to make this particular test up and running without any problem.
Thank you.

--- Running Maven with Jenkins docker image via custom docker build ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from automation.com.
And welcome to part 23 of our build deploy test with Jenkins and Docker course.
And in this video we'll be talking about running Maven within Jenkins Docker image, which we were failing
in our previous video, which is part 22.
So before watching this part, I would request you to watch Part 22 because this video is going to be
a complete continuation of our previous video.
All right, so let's get started.
So in our previous video, while we were running Jenkins with Maven and we were actually getting this
particular error, it says that cannot run the program maven within it.
The reason is because it says no such file or directory found.
And we know that.
The reason is because the image that we downloaded, the Blue Ocean image from Jenkins of the Docker
hub actually does not contain MVN or Maven itself.
So we need to explicitly download the Maven and install that within that particular image so that we
can use that.
And once again, within our Jenkins course of our automations YouTube channel as well as in Udemy,
we discussed how to create our own image of Jenkins using what is called as a Docker file and then how
we can do that.
And that's exactly what I'm going to be showing in this particular video as well.
So basically I'm going to create this particular Docker file.
As you can see here, it says pulling the blue ocean image from and then I'm going to use the user as
root and then I'm going to run an apt get to install the wget, whereas from wget, I can get the Maven
installation directory, which is going to be from this particular location.
And then I'm going to do an install maven over here.
Which is going to be like extracting the tar file and then going to that particular file and setting
the home path.
And then you can see that main path is being set, expose the path, and then I'm going to clean the
already existing archive files and then I'm going to be running the Jenkins over here.
So this is what is this particular Docker file is going to be doing things for us and using this we
can actually run code with the Maven command itself.
So that's going to be very interesting because this particular code that you are seeing over here is
actually not a code.
Basically, it's just a command which you can use to run the Docker with Maven itself.
And again, the Docker image that we are downloading, the blue ocean does not really have the Maven
and we are actually doing the installation over here and then we are going to be building our own Docker
image so that we can run that particular container along with the Maven itself.
So for that I'm going to go back to my command prompt, the one which we opened in our previous video.
And over here I'm actually going to go to my C colon, so I'm just going to go to the C colon.
I'm going to LS and you can see that I have a folder called Docker.
I just created that.
So if I just go to the Docker and if I just do an LS, you can see that I have a Docker file.
So the Docker file is basically this file that you are seeing or here within my VS code.
That's exactly is what is this one?
And in order to build the Docker image, I'm just going to do a command Docker build and then I'm just
going to give a tag as something like, so this is the tag name that I'm going to be using for my custom
Docker with Maven.
I'm going to use the file, which is nothing but the Docker file that I already have within my C colon,
and now I'm just going to hit enter.
Oops.
It says like the tag like custom with Maven has the invalid argument is because of the capital letter.
So probably I'm just going to change this to small letter and you can see that this time I'm getting
a different error.
It says that the apt get not found.
Well, the reason is because the apt get is not there within this particular Docker image that I'm trying
to download, which is nothing but the Jenkins Blue Ocean image.
So instead of using the Jenkins Blue Ocean image, I'm just going to use the Jenkins LTS version.
So if I go there so you can see that this is the LTS version, so I can just copy this guy and I'm just
going to paste it over here.
The reason why I have used this blue ocean is because in our previous video I showed you how to work
with the blue ocean itself.
So if I just do a Docker images, you can see that I actually have a blue ocean image over here.
And that's the reason I actually use this particular version.
So I'm probably going to change this to Jenkins of LTS tag.
And now if I just build it once again, you can see that this time it is actually working fine without
any problem.
So which means this particular version of the Jenkins actually has the apt get that was not there.
So make sure that you're not going to be using the Jenkins Blue Ocean image.
Rather you can use the Jenkins of LTS so that you can have the apt get that you can install the maven
in it.
All right.
But again, another thing is like the blue ocean is also available within the Jenkins LTS itself, so
you don't really have to worry about the blue ocean.
Its been missing or something like that.
You can still use the blue ocean within that particular image as well.
There you go.
You can see that the image has been downloaded and now it is trying to download the maven for us over
here.
And then.
As you can see, it has installed the Maven for us.
And it's also.
Cleaning the downloaded files that we did and then everything is done.
And now if I just do a Docker images, you can see that I have the custom docker with Maven over here.
Now I can use the same command that I used in our previous video to run this particular docker, but
just that instead of using the Jenkins CI with the blue ocean, I'm going to be running my own custom
image that we have over here and then I can run that for us again.
If you run this directly, you are going to be ending up with some sort of problem.
So maybe I'm just going to change the directory from new to maybe custom, something like that.
And if I hit enter, oops, it seems like our existing image is actually running as well.
Okay.
This is the container which is running, so probably I can stop this docker stop of this and then similarly
I need to stop this particular container running.
So Docker, stop over here.
So two containers are stopped.
It's okay.
I'm just going to clear.
And now if I just try to run this particular guy, you can see that it is currently running, which
you can see from the Docker PS hyphen A and you can grab this particular container ID and then you can
just do Docker logs of this particular container ID where you can see it is currently up and running
and you also have the secret key to install your.
Jenkins So now I can just go to the localhost of 880, which means you can now see that particular administrator
password page being shown.
I can just copy this guy and paste it over here and then I can again do the exact same installation
process that we were doing before for installing all the different packages which is required for our
Jenkins setup.
So once the whole installation is done, I'm going to be back and I will quickly show you the execution
of the exact same repository that we were executing in our previous video.
There we go.
The installation is done.
And now I'm just going to create the username and password here, which is going to be the exact same
thing.
Admin admin admin name is oops.
And the email ID.
All right, good save and continue.
And I'm going to say the local host is going to be the access URL for me and then I'm going to start
using the Jenkins So you're going to see that this is exactly the same kind of kind of Jenkins here
as well.
And I'm going to choose the freestyle project and I'm going to use the name as from Jenkins Docker for
the freestyle project, and I'm going to hit okay.
And then I'm going to copy this particular repository, which is the one that we discussed in our previous
video, which was not working without a maven.
And I'm going to select the git, I'm going to copy paste this guy and I'm going to go to the build
command, or here I'm going to add the setup as invoke top level target.
I'm going to do a clean.
This was the command which was not working before, so I'm just going to do a save.
And now I'm going to go to the back to the dashboard and then I'm going to hit run.
And this time, hopefully the build execution should be passing for us because this was the one which
was not working before.
So you can see that from Jenkins.
Docker is currently up and running and I can go to this particular execution, go to the console output.
There you go.
You can see that this time it is actually trying to run the jar files.
It is trying to deploy and it is also building the whole stuff for us.
And it is also successful in building this particular command for us.
So the next thing which I can do probably is after the clean, we can do a compile command.
So I'm going to go to the configure and instead of clean, let's say I'm going to do a compile, I'm
going to hit save and go to the dashboard and then I'm going to run this guy once again for the second
one.
And you can see that this time it is also building things for me.
It is downloading the stuffs for us and it is working fine without any problem.
So this is the reason why the build was actually failing.
In our previous video while we were trying to use the Jenkins without Maven as the image does not really
contain the Maven Maven installation in that.
But now for this particular custom container that we have within our local machine, we actually have
the Maven installation.
And now if I see the logs, you can see that it is running the logs for us where it is trying to install
things for us without any problem.
All right, so this is how you can use the Maven and the Docker file to create your own Docker images
and then you can run the container within your local machine and then you can run the whole build for
you without any problem.
This is how things are actually happening within the cloud and many people are actually using this way
for creating the build and running the build and using Jenkins within the cloud like Azure DevOps or
AWS or Google Cloud.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video and have a great day.

--- Jenkins Docker file ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding Pipeline as a code in Jenkins ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Amazon.com.
And welcome to another section of our popular course build deploy test with Jenkins and Docker.
And this is an advanced section where starting this section, we are going to talk about some of the
most advanced topics that we have not ever discussed in this particular course.
And in this video we are going to talk about understanding Pipeline as code with Jenkins.
So let's quickly do a recap of what we have discussed so far in this course.
We have already discussed about Jenkins introduction and installation from Jenkins var file as well
as from the Docker image.
We also discussed about Jenkins freestyle project and also working with Jenkins pipeline project with
scripted pipeline syntax.
And also we discussed many different things, as you can see on the course agenda, the first video
of this course.
So we have discussed so many things and a lot of details that we discussed are very, very basic and
those are pretty important for you to get started with.
Jenkins But now Jenkins have changed a lot from 2017 while I released this course to 2020, so many
new things started to introduce within Jenkins and the Blue Ocean theme that I discussed in 2017 was
pretty new.
It was in beta stage and now it is kind of getting like a stable version.
There are so many different features coming in within the Blue Ocean pipeline.
So we are going to talk about blue ocean pipelines, blue ocean themes and how we can configure and
all those stuff.
But we are going to take a step by step approach in this section as well, and we'll see how we can
leverage the power of Jenkins in a more advanced fashion.
So the first one of this kind is the pipeline as code with Jenkins.
So the default interaction model with Jenkins historically has been very web UI driven, requiring user
to manually create job, then manually fill in the details through the web browser.
And this requires an additional effort to create and manage jobs to test and build multiple project.
It also keeps the configuration of a job to the build deploy test separate from the actual code being
the build tested and deployed, which is kind of not the right way of doing the 2 in 2020 with so many
things have came into picture.
The old way of working with web UI is kind of not the fashion that people and the developer are tend
to be going towards.
And this UI based fashion prevents user from applying their existing CI CD practices to jobs configuration
themselves because you are trying to isolate the Jenkins configuration of the pipeline like freestyle
project or the pipeline scripted project that we discussed earlier within the Jenkins Config.xml file,
but not within the source code that we are actually building the application with.
So the benefits of the pipeline as a code is completely opposite to what we have did all these days
with the freestyle project and pipeline scripted project.
So the pipeline as a code project retains the history of all the changes to the pipeline and it rollbacks
to a previous pipeline version because you're going to be checking in this particular pipeline as a
code within your source code that your application is being built.
You can also view the diff and merge changes to the pipelines pretty much exactly like how you can see
the code that you are building for your application.
You can also test new pipeline steps in branches and run the same pipeline on different Jenkins serve,
which is pretty cool.
And this is the power of pipeline as a code, which is really, really changing the way the continuous
integration and deployments are happening in the modern era.
And let's quickly see a complete differentiation between the pipeline as a code versus the freestyle
job that we discussed earlier.
So pipeline is a code or as it is called, as the Jenkins files.
So I'm talking about something called as Jenkins files here.
This is kind of new.
We have never discussed in this course before, but this is what is the way of working with Jenkins
in the modern era.
So the Jenkins files is where all the pipeline code are going to be sitting.
Don't worry about it yet.
We are going to talk about Jenkins files in detail.
So the pipeline codes are going to be maintained in the source code repo, whereas in the freestyle
job it maintained within the Jenkins own config.xml file.
So if your config.xml file is destroyed or your Jenkins is being destroyed for some reason, all your
freestyle jobs that you created within the Jenkins will be destroyed as well.
You might have noticed this before while working with the freestyle jobs, whereas in the pipeline as
a code, these things are never going to happen unless until you destroy the whole repo of the source
code.
And similarly, in Python as a code, there is no need to recreate the job every time, as I told you
before, whereas in freestyle job you need to recreate job every time in pipeline as a code it is easy
to code and no need to work with UI of Jenkins a lot, whereas in freestyle job you are fully UI dependent
and you need to have.
The UI of the Jenkins up and running.
And similarly new pipelines created for every branch automatically in pipeline as a code.
Whereas in freestyle job you need to create a separate job for every branch else.
You need to modify the job in the UI at least to point to the branch that you're working with, which
is also a kind of pain.
Whereas in pipeline as a code job, these are going to happen for you automatically.
So these are the high level differentiation between pipeline as a code versus the freestyle job.
There are even more advantages available in Pipeline as a core job, which we'll be discussing in this
whole section.
So we have been talking about this pipeline as a code.
And I also told there is something called as a Jenkins file.
So in order to use the pipeline as a code, projects must contain a file named Jenkins file in Repositories
root folder, which contains a pipeline script.
So this is the place or this is the file which holds your pipelines script and the Jenkins file should
contain a pipeline script specifying the steps to execute the job and the scripts.
Has the power of the pipeline available from something as simple as invoking a maven builder to a series
of interdependent steps which have coordinated parallel execution with deployments and validation phases.
So this is the power of Jenkins file and the power of this pipeline syntax, which we'll be talking
in our next video.
By the way, there are so many things that you can do within this Jenkins file.
An example of the Jenkins file is going to look something like this.
As you can see, it has an pipeline syntax which is kind of new.
Don't worry about it.
We'll be talking about that in our upcoming videos.
But as of now, yeah, this is what it is.
And you can see there is something called as an agent any and there is a stage and the stages are pretty
much exactly like the stage that we discussed in our scripted pipeline syntax.
That's exactly what it is.
And it has something called as parallel, and there is one more stage with it and then there is a shell
scripting and echo command, something like that.
And this is how the Jenkins file is going to look like.
And one more example is going to look something like this.
As you can see, there are some more stages You can create some artifacts.
You can write a file.
You have something called as an environment like there is a cut over there.
I couldn't able to take the whole screenshot, but yes, you can do all sorts of jazz in here.
So once you execute this pipeline execution, it's going to do something like this.
As we already discussed in our earlier video, this is exactly like the pipeline job that we discussed
before and within the blue Ocean view, it's going to look something like this.
So yes, the UI has been refined a bit this time.
While I discussed in 2017, the UI was a bit odd, but right now the UI has been improved a bit.
You can also have something called as Jenkins job editor, something like that.
We'll be discussing about that pretty quickly.
But yeah, this is how the UI is going to look like.
And as I told you, this Jenkins file is going to sit within our source code.
So how is that going to look like It is going to look something like this as you can see within my GitHub
repo of the Selenium with Cucumber project that we discussed for the very same project in this particular
Jenkins demonstration in our earlier videos of this course.
But this time we have something called as Jenkins file and you can see that I have updated this like
two hours before.
So this is a new one and this file is going to sit along with your source code.
So this way, every time you build a source code, your Jenkins file is going to also build along with
this particular source code and so that you can maintain the changes, the diff, and then you can see
that even if your Jenkins is going to be crashed fully, if you refer this particular GitHub repo,
it will automatically pick up this Jenkins file and then it start executing.
If you refer your pipeline project for execution, which is pretty cool.
Just to deviate from the Jenkins itself, this is exactly the same concept which is already available
in Azure DevOps, which I have already discussed in my advanced Azure DevOps course, which is available
in Udemy, where I have discussed like how the Azure pipeline Yaml file is going to generate the whole
build definition as a code.
So this Yaml file has all the default information while you create something like triggers, which is
going to be the master branch, the pool and the variables which are nothing but like an environment
variable.
And then you can see the steps, the task and the inputs and stuff.
So it has like an Yaml file.
It's completely different from the Jenkins file that we will be discussing.
But yes, the same idea of what we just discussed on pipeline as a code concept is already available
within Azure DevOps and it is exactly the same thing that we'll be discussing within our Jenkins as
well.
Well, as I said, we are going to discuss all these theoretical discussion in our next video into action
and we'll see how we can capitalize that by creating our first Jenkins file within our GitHub repo.
And we'll see how we can execute them and work with it.
Meet you in our next video.
Thank you.

--- Creating Jenkinsfile from Jenkins Pipeline UI editor to check-in pipeline in Git ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I am from Amazon.com.
And welcome to another video of our build deploy test with Jenkins and Docker.
And this is an advanced section.
And in this video we're going to talk about pipeline is a code with Jenkins and complete walkthrough.
And in our last video we discussed how pipeline as a code with Jenkins is going to transform the way
the CI CD build is going to happen with our project as opposed to the classical way of working with
Jenkins using freestyle project and with a pipeline project with scripted pipeline syntax.
So let's quickly jump into a machine and this time I'm going to show you how we can spin up a Docker
container for Jenkins LTS or the long term support build and how we can install the Blue Ocean theme,
which was not there while we released this course on 2017.
But now a bit has changed.
This time I'm going to quickly walk through how the installation is going to happen as well, even though
we have already discussed about it.
But this time we're just going to go a quick walkthrough of how to do an installation and then we will
start creating a simple pipeline as a code with Jenkins.
All right.
So let's get started.
All right.
So this is my machine.
And this time I'm going to use the Windows terminal to show you how we can actually run a Docker container.
So you can see that this is my customized Windows terminal.
There are so many different themes and the color scheme is available.
I'm going to create a separate video on how you can customize the Windows terminal and how you can set
the different customization for different terminals and all those details.
But just for now, because in order to not deviate from the topic that we are going to be discussing
this time, I'm going to show you how we can spin up the Docker container for the Jenkins image.
So I'm just going to go to the Chrome browser and if I just search for Jenkins Docker image, as you
can see in here and there is this GitHub link, which is the one which has the official repo of all
the Jenkins CI.
And you can see that this is the usage of how you can execute the Jenkins Docker container.
So this is the image, as you can see, the Jenkins and the LTS is the long term support.
So this is something which is not going to change a lot.
So it's going to be a long term support.
At least after six months the build will be changed.
But if you just take the Jenkins with the latest one, it is going to update like every one week, if
there is any new update is going to happen.
So I will recommend you to just go with the LTS because that's kind of stable.
So I'm just going to copy this whole command and I'm going to go to my terminal and over here I'm just
going to do this Docker images.
I'm just going to show you if I really have other Docker image sitting in my machine and you can see
that I already have Jenkins with LTS downloaded within my machine.
So all I'm going to do is I'm just going to spin up the Docker.
Jenkins and then I'm going to run and see how the execution is going to happen.
So let me just clear the screen and I'm going to paste this command.
I'm just going to hit enter.
So this way it is going to start a all new fresh Jenkins container.
And you can see that this time when it starts, it is going to give me the secret password, which is
something we can use for setting the Jenkins itself.
So you can see that it's all up and running.
And if I go to the localhost colon, 8080 because that's what is the port that I have mapped over here,
if you can see in my terminal.
So this is the port that I'm mapping into the 88.
That's why it's coming in here.
Paste the secret password I'm going to hit continue.
And then it's going to ask me to install the suggested plugins.
So I'm just going to install all the suggested plugins because it is something required.
So what happens right now is just to recollect, right now we are trying to spin up a Jenkins Docker
container and this Docker container is going to have all these plugins within it and it is going to
install within that particular container.
As you can see right now it is just doing all the installation.
So if I open a new tab and if I just do Docker PS hyphen A, it is going to show me what is currently
executing.
So you can see that this guy is currently executing over here.
Docker installation is also happening with all the plugins.
Well, this is happening.
I'm also going to do one more thing within our GitHub repo of automation.
So if I go to the GitHub repo of our Execute automation over here, I don't really have any repositories
for Jenkins Docker over here.
I have Jenkins pipeline advanced, so don't worry about it yet.
We're going to talk about this in this particular series, but I'm going to create a new repository
this time and I'm going to call this as Jenkins Basics.
So maybe Jenkins Pipeline.
So I'm just going to call this as Jenkins pipeline.
And this repo is for demonstration is going to demonstrate Jenkins pipeline and this is going to be
public and I'm going to hit create repo.
So this way I'm going to use this repo for all my operations that I'm going to be doing.
So I'm just going to copy this repository over here.
And while the installation is happening for Docker still I'm just going to open another terminal over
here and let's oops, let's try to create a directory and let's call this as Jenkins Pipeline Basic
and this is the directory where I'm just going to show you all the different pipeline syntaxes and declarative
syntax and working with Jenkins and all those details.
So I'm just going to open Visual Studio code over here.
We can do a git pull over here itself, but I'm going to show you how we can do with Visual Studio code
much, much easily.
You can press Ctrl shift P, which is going to open this quick navigation option where you can also
do something called as Git clone as you can see.
Or maybe if you just put Git colon, you can see all the different options for the git comes in and
we're going to choose the git clone from the GitHub.
I have already made the authorization.
That's why you can see all my repos coming in and this is the repo that we just created the Jenkins
pipeline repo.
So I'm just going to select that and it's going to ask me which folder I'm going to put this particular
repo.
So I'm just going to put this in my C colon and you can see that the Jenkins pipeline is now sitting
for me over here, which is pretty cool.
So all good right now.
So Jenkins Pipeline is now talking with our GitHub repo.
So if I do any add operation over here that is going to be coming in for us over there.
But as of now, we don't really require this particular Visual Studio code.
But I have just made this setup because we will be requiring this in our future videos.
But as of now, this setup is going to be something that you should be having as well.
While the Jenkins installation is happening, it seems like the Jenkins installation is happening,
so I'm just going to give the username password as admin admin and I'm just going to give my email address.
I'm just going to hit save and continue and say when finished.
So Jenkins is up and running right now and it's ready for us to perform all the different operation.
So I'm just going to go to the manage.
Jenkins And if I go to the manage plugins and if I go to the Availables, I'm just going to go and install
the blue ocean as well.
The reason I'm installing the blue ocean is I'm just going to show you quickly how easy it is to work
with Blue Ocean while you try to work with the pipeline.
Syntaxes And this is a kind of new operation which is available this time with the Jenkins Blue Ocean
team.
So once you have this, you can see that so many different plugins are being installed.
Once I select the blue ocean, you can see there is a rest implementation for blue ocean pipeline implementation
for blue ocean, GitHub pipeline for blue ocean and many different plugins are being installed.
Even Docker pipeline is also being installed along with the blue ocean.
So these things will be requiring in our future videos.
But these are the installation that you really require to have while the plugin is being installed while
starting to work with the Jenkins pipeline itself.
So once the installation is fully done, I'll be back.
I guess the installation is done.
So let me refresh the Jenkins.
You can see that it's asking me the username and password to be entered again and you can see that there
is no more plugin to be updated.
So the blue ocean is up and running is already installed within my Jenkins.
Well, just pretty cool.
So you can see there is this blue ocean coming in.
So once I select this open blue ocean, you can see that this new theme comes in and it tells me that
there is no pipeline available, which is okay because we don't really have any pipeline created and
there is no even not even a single repo available.
So I'm just going to create a new pipeline and it's going to ask me where do you store your code?
So this is the new one.
Guys, we have never discussed this before in our Jenkins discussion, so I'm just going to quickly
do this time.
So I'm just going to select this GitHub.
This is where my repos are actually sitting and I'm going to create a new access token pretty quickly
and I'm just going to give a name maybe Jenkins if I have not given already.
So let's try to generate one and I'm going to copy the personal access token or p, a c, p, a T.
I'm going to paste this and I'm going to connect it.
So once I connect this, you can see that it takes my organization as execute automation, which is
pretty cool.
And then I'm going to create a new repository, choose a new repository from here, which is nothing
but our Jenkins pipeline that I just created.
That's the reason I actually created the Jenkins pipeline once while the installation of our Jenkins
was actually happening.
So I'm going to choose Jenkins Pipeline.
I'm going to create a new pipeline.
So you already know that we don't really have anything in our pipeline.
Jenkins Pipeline repo yet.
But once I create a new pipeline in our Jenkins, you can see that some metrics are going to happen
for you automatically, which is pretty, pretty cool and you'll be seeing that pretty quickly.
So you can see that this pipeline is now showing us a pipeline editor.
So this pipeline editor is like a graphical user interface.
You can actually modify the same thing from the Jenkins file itself like a Ras, but you can see that
you can actually do the same thing from the UI itself.
So here I can actually choose.
The steps or the stages where you can actually say you're going to perform a build operation.
So this is one of the stage.
And here within the stage you can have multiple steps in it.
So let's say if we want to print a message so you can say something like building the Dotnet core application,
something like that.
So basically you should be doing a build operation.
But I'm just trying to print this time.
And once you do the build operation, you can also do some sort of test operation.
So you're going to perform a test stage and where you're going to perform one another print message
where you're going to be telling, testing the application, something like that.
And once the testing of the application is, then you are then going to do a deployment operation.
So here the stage is going to be a deploy stage.
And within this you're going to add a step here.
I'm just going to do a print message again, so no big deal.
So I'm just going to say deploying the app in is server, something like that, and that's it.
This is the pipeline that I have created very, very generic pipeline directly from the Jenkins Blue
Ocean theme.
And I'm just going to hit save.
And you can see this is the magic guys.
Once I hit a save operation, it tells me that saving the pipeline will commit a Jenkins file to the
repository.
So this is what I was talking about.
The Jenkins file is going to be created from this particular Jenkins pipeline, so I'm just going to
save it.
All right.
What's changed?
Created our first ever Jenkins pipeline in this course.
All right.
And you're going to say it tells me it asks me that you're going to commit to the master or you're going
to create a new branch and you give a specific name for that branch.
I'm directly going to commit this to master for now because there is only one branch for now.
So once I hit Save and Run, you can see that it is going to commit the code directly or the pipeline
directly to the repo and it's also going to execute for us.
So you can see that once I hit it, you can see it is now checking out the code from the version control,
which is nothing but our automation.
Jenkins pipeline dot git as you can see.
And it also executed the pipeline for us.
There you go.
So within 19 seconds magics happened.
So if I click the build, you can see that it printed us the message building, the Dotnet core app
and then testing the application.
And it also deployed the application to the server.
Basically all virtually there is nothing really magic happened behind the scene.
It's all just the text and everything happened for us within Jenkins Pipelines Blue Ocean theme, which
is very, very awesome.
So now if I go to the repo that I have within my automation and if I hit refresh, you can see that
there is a Jenkins file been sitting on the root directory of my project.
So this is what happens.
So if you have a Jenkins file within your repository, it should be within a root file or root directory
of your project.
That is a good practice, but if you have multiple Jenkins file within your project for some reason,
maybe for testing, you have a different Jenkins file, Maybe for staging deployment, you have a different
Jenkins file or production deployment, you have different Jenkins file.
You can probably put that in a directory and then you can refer the file based on those deployment of
the environment.
But in usual cases, Jenkins file will be sitting on the root directory, and that's what happened here.
Within the project, you don't really have any source code, but still, Jenkins automatically puts
the Jenkins file within our root directory.
And if we see this Jenkins file over here, you can see that it magically created a pipeline code for
us like this.
So this is basically a groovy DSL or groovy on domain specific language.
And this is pretty much exactly inheriting from the scripted pipeline syntax that we saw earlier in
our videos with a pipeline projects.
But this is the real new declarative pipeline syntax of Jenkins, which is introduced pretty much recently.
And this has almost a different syntax or maybe pretty close to the syntax of what we have discussed
earlier with a scripted pipeline syntax.
We'll discuss more about this declarative pipeline syntax in our upcoming videos or maybe the next video.
We'll talk about declarative pipeline in even more detail.
But yes, this is what is the code which is automatically generated by Jenkins for you?
Well, as I said in our next video, we'll discuss about the declarative pipeline in even more detail
and what is the differentiation between the declarative pipeline versus the scripted pipeline and understand
how things work.
So once again, thank you very much for watching this video.
And stay tuned for our next video.
Thank you.

--- Understanding and working with Declarative pipeline Syntax for Jenkinsfile build ---

Hey guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from Amazon.com.
And welcome to another video of our build deploy test with Jenkins and Docker Video series.
And this is an advanced section.
And in this video we are going to talk about understanding declarative pipelines of Jenkins 2.0 scripted
pipeline syntax.
We already discussed about the scripted pipeline syntax while we were working with pipeline project,
and we also saw how we use the script to create nodes and specify agent to perform certain task like
building, deploying and testing the application.
So we also use the script editor to generate the script for us.
And we also saw how easy it is to generate the script to perform or create the pipeline, which is pretty
close to how you did with the freestyle project.
But you can do the same exact same thing with a scripted pipeline syntax as well.
And again, there was the script editor which gave us the syntax for us pretty, pretty quickly.
So all those magics happen for us very, very easily with the scripted pipeline.
But then this new declarative pipelines of Jenkins came in.
The declarative pipeline is a relatively recent addition to Jenkins Pipeline, which present a more
sophisticated or simplified and opinionated syntax on top of the pipeline subsystem itself.
And since declarative pipeline syntax sits on Jenkins file, they are now version controlled.
Pretty much like how the rest of your application code is maintained in the source control.
This is exactly what we discussed in our starting of this section, that this Jenkins file is going
to be something version controlled, maintained.
It creates the pipeline for you automatically and you don't really have to rely on the Jenkins UI itself.
So even if the Jenkins master is being destroyed, everything is going to be resurrected automatically
based on the Jenkins file that you have specified within your source control repo.
And before going even further with this descriptive pipeline, this pipelines in Jenkins is not all
new.
But still, Jenkins is fundamentally an automation engine which supports a number of automation patterns.
Pipelines add a powerful set of automation tools on Jenkins supporting use cases that span from simple
continuous integration to comprehensive CD pipelines.
By modeling a series of related tasks, user can take advantage of many features of pipeline such as
coding, durable coding, possible coding, versatile executions of the CI CD and make the pipeline
as extendable.
And you can see that the more robust or the complex pipeline is going to look something like this,
right?
So this is exactly the same content that I have taken from the jenkins.io page, which is the credit
for this particular image.
I have not created this image.
Basically, the image and the text that you are seeing over here in this slide are directly copy pasted
from the Jenkins io website itself, which makes more sense because I don't really have to reinvent
the wheel to tell the exact same thing again and again in my own way, because this text itself is oversimplified.
You can see that this pipeline, as you can see, has started with an SM commit and then it creates
a repo and then it takes a repo from a specific branch and the workflow starts and then you can see
that there are many different stages and each stage is going to perform different operations like checkout,
launching a Docker agent on a Jenkins agent and then running a test stage to run different kinds of
testing and then deploying the application and generating a build report.
And then the workflow ends and there will be some test report as well, obviously.
So this proves the point that Jenkins Pipeline is even more addictive and important in terms of how
the continuous integration and deployments can be done for an workflow of application.
We already saw an example of the pipeline syntax of Jenkins, something like this, and we also saw
the exact same thing that while we created our first repo and the first pipeline with our blue ocean
theme, the pipeline was automatically created for us.
And this exact syntax that you can see here is called as the declarative pipeline syntax.
So declarative pipeline syntax is not limited to what you see in here.
Something like agents or stages and echo commands and write files or archive artifacts, something like
that.
There are even more syntax based on the plugin that you install.
So let's quickly see what I really mean about this declarative pipeline syntax itself.
And what is this complete details are all about.
So if I go to the browser over here and then if I search for declarative pipeline syntax over here,
you can see that this is the pipeline syntax and this is the declarative pipeline.
So you can see that every single pipeline starts with a pipeline block over here, and then you start
the insertion of the declarative pipeline codes.
So you can see there are different sections available for the declarative pipelines.
The first one, it starts with an agent basically.
So the agent can be any agent, which is going to be your Jenkins on slave agent.
So there are some discussion happening on the forum or the Jenkins group.
If you join the Google Group of Jenkins, they're talking about what do they name the slave itself?
Because that sounds very, very not correct.
So Jenkins slave master, they're going to replace that with the naming convention.
So they're going to be there is going to be some naming convention.
Change is going to happen pretty quickly.
So they're going to call any more slaves because the agent has already replaced it.
So probably the concept is going to be fade away soon.
So you will see new changes coming in.
I'll be adding a video on that.
But again, you can see that within this particular agent section, you can see there are many different
options available.
Something like any, it can be any agent and then there is none, which can be none of the agent, but
it's going to choose the global agent for you.
And then you can label the agent and then the node.
We know that this node is something that you can specify within your Jenkins which node has been attached
to that particular.
Jenkins And there is something called as Docker.
You can also specify a Docker image which is going to be automatically pulled for you from within.
Jenkins And then you can label the image like LTS or latest or whatever it is, and then you can pass
some arguments for running that particular image, and then you can specify the registry URL like where
the images are actually be sitting.
It can be sitting directly in the hub.docker.com, it can be sitting in your own company's Docker registry
or it can be sitting within a private repo registry.
So it can be anything.
So you can specify the registry URL and its credential ID as well.
And similarly, you can also run a Docker file for that matter.
So you can specify you can put a Docker file within that particular Docker files section of an agent,
and then you can tell what operations are going to be performing.
And again, guys, there are some confusion on this Docker file versus the Docker as an agent itself.
We were talking about that pretty quickly in our upcoming videos of this series.
But yeah, these are the things that you can do and you can also spin up a Kubernetes for that matter.
You can specify the part containers and volumes and all those details that we already discussed in our
Kubernetes for Tester series.
So you can also specify that the direct Yaml file in triple quotes over here.
So you can do all sorts of things as an agent.
And similarly, you can also see based on the plugins that you have installed, you can change the stages
and its steps.
There is something called as the pipeline step reference.
If I go over here, you can see that within the step you can do a lot of operations.
This is what I was talking about.
Based on the plugin that you're actually installing, these things are going to be changed.
For instance, if I'm just going to execute a PowerShell command so I can do something like this, you
can see the PowerShell script.
So once I click this particular thing it will tell me what kind of syntax that I need to be using for
the PowerShell operation.
So for the PowerShell core we should be using SSH for the PowerShell seven, which is running within
our windows alone.
You can specify a PowerShell, something like that.
So there are many different syntax.
Again guys, these are something which keep extending based on the plugin that you are installing within
your Jenkins and you can see that the syntax itself is spanning so long like that.
So for sure you can see that the syntax will change based on the plugin that you're actually been using.
Well, as I said, let's jump into the way how we can work with the pipelines using declarative syntax
in even more details like what are the magics that we can do within this particular pipelines, at least
within the UI?
And then we'll also see how we can use within our Visual Studio code that we configured in our earlier
video.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go over here and then I'm just going to do a git fetch.
So this way it is going to fetch from our master branch, let's do a git pull and you can see that our
Jenkins file is automatically appeared here and you can see that this is the Jenkins file that we just
created in our earlier video.
Right.
This can be here just in case because we are going to be using it for some reason.
So I'm just going to hold this guy as it is.
And now within this particular UI, what I'm going to do is I'm going to do an edit operation.
So within this Blue Ocean theme, I can also do an edit of the same build that I have just created.
And over here, let's say if I want to do something like I want to do an usage of environment variable,
this is something that is very, very important while we really work with Jenkins.
So what I'm going to do is let's say if I have something called as a chrome driver path.
So I'm just going to say chrome driver path, something like that.
And then I'm just going to specify the path where my chrome driver is sitting, something like this.
And this is the environment variable, let's say I want to use within one of my build step or maybe
over here within our test, I want to actually use Chrome driver path to execute my test.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to pass this as an argument.
So I'm just going to say print message over here just for now.
I'm just going to print the message and I'm going to say, get the driver path.
And over here I'm just going to specify a dollar of braces.
And here I'm just going to pass the chrome driver path, which is the one which I just specified.
And let's say I'm just going to put this guy in the double quotes because in order to interpolate the
chrome driver path, which is there in the environment variable, you should pass this in a double quotes.
If not, this is not going to work.
So I'm just going to do that.
I'm just going to save and I'm just going to do a save and run.
I will not be surprised if this particular variable is not going to be resolved because there are some
cases I have seen that sometimes it is not resolved correctly.
So let's the execution to happen.
And if I go to the test, you can see that it still shows the chrome driver path.
So as I told you before, I'm not very surprised on that.
So let's quickly go to the Visual Studio code.
And that's the reason I have actually used Visual Studio code over here.
Let's try to do once again the git fetch and I'm going to do a git pull over here and you can see that
I've actually got the changes that I have made on the UI, on the Jenkins pipeline.
And you can see that there is this single code standing over here.
So this is something which is not expected.
I don't really need to have this particular single quotes over there and that's the reason it has happened.
So I'm just going to save this guy right now.
And let's say if I just go to the git.
So I have renamed change that value.
So I'm going to say changed equal message and I'm going to do a git.
Push.
So the changes are going to be taking place over there.
And now I'm just going to go to my Jenkins Pipeline once again.
And if I go to the branches over here, you can see that we only have the master branch at this point
of time.
And once I hit the execution, it is going to run the pipeline for us and let's see what's going to
happen.
And within this test this time, you can see that the print message actually shows us the chrome driver
path over here.
So where is this actually coming from?
Is from our environment variable that we created on the start.
So if I go to my Visual Studio code, you can also notice that we have something called as an environment
stage where it actually has the environment path as the chrome driver path over here.
So this is exactly where it has resolved the chrome driver path for us and it has printed here.
So you can see that basically all the declarative pipeline will have a pipeline block and within the
pipeline block it will have an agent.
This is where the execution is going to happen within the Jenkins master itself.
And then there will be a series of stages.
And within the stages you can see, because we have in this UI, we have two stage within this particular
pipeline.
We have this in the stages.
So you can see that they have automatically taken them as parallel and this a build stage and a test
stage, which is these two.
And within this stage you have a step.
The steps is nothing but equal of the message that you have printed.
And then there is an echo of chrome driver path that you have got from the environment variable over
here.
And then there is one more stage which is called as a deployment stage, where you're going to be deploying
your application and it has a step like that.
So this is the power of the declarative syntax itself in Jenkins And let's quickly do some more complex
operation and we'll see how we can leverage the power of declarative syntax.
For instance, let's say if I want to do an interactive session over here.
So for instance, if I again go to this particular editing operation and if I want to do a conditional
deployment over here, something like only if I say yes for doing a deployment, then I can do something
like an wait for an interactive input.
So if I select this and I can tell a message, do you want to still deploy?
Or maybe do you want to deploy?
And if I say an okay, only then you perform a deployment.
If not, you don't really need to deploy the application itself.
So this is kind of a new operation that you can do.
So this can be coming over here, something like that.
That's the first one and I'm going to hit save and you will see the magic basically happen.
So once I hit Save and Run, you can see that the execution is basically happening.
And you can see once it comes to the deployment, it is now waiting for us to perform or proceed for
an operation.
So once I select this particular stage, it says, do you want to deploy?
So only if I proceed it is going to perform the operation.
If not, it's going to just abandon the operation.
Let's say if I just want to abort this operation, and if I go over here, you can see that the wait
for operation has been cancelled and the deployment has not happened, which is nothing but the next
step that we have specified, which is deploying the application to the server has not really happened
for us.
But now let's say if I want to go back over here once again, if I just rerun the job.
Over here, you can see that it's going to ask me, do you want to deploy?
And if I do a proceed, you can see that the application has been deployed for us.
So this is another way that you can actually make sure that your deployment has to happen or not.
And you can also note here that there is something like replayed from the fourth build execution.
So it is also very, very clear to tell us that there is no change happened.
Basically, it has been replayed from the fourth build that you have made within the Jenkins pipeline.
So these are cool things which are available with the recent changes of the pipelines.
We can also do a few more operations, like even more fancy operations that we'll be talking about in
our next video.
Thank you.

--- Jenkins Declarative Pipeline Syntax - Archive and Conditional steps ---

In our last video, we discussed how we can leverage the power of declarative pipelines and how this
pipeline can be replayed and how the deployment of interactive deployments can all happen.
All this stuff.
And we also discussed different types of syntaxes over here.
So we also saw if I do a git pull over here, you can see that we performed an interactive operation,
something like this.
And all those stuff happens for us very, very easily.
And let's say if I want to create a file and then if I want to make an archive of that particular file,
and then if I want to create an artifacts for that, we can do that as well with this particular declarative
pipeline.
And this is also something you can do from the UI itself.
So if I let's say once the test has been executed, let's say if I want to create a stage where I want
to create a let's assume that this is the test log which has been created.
So test log, something like that.
And the step that I'm going to be creating is a file that is something called as write file to the workspace.
I'm just going to choose that.
And let's say I'm going to say log test, file dot txt, something like that.
And I'm going to say this is an automated or maybe automation file, something like that.
You can specify the UTF eight or UTF 16 encoding if you want.
I'm going to be doing all those kind of thing right now.
Let's say this is the one thing which I'm going to be doing and if I want to also make an archive,
I can also do that as well.
Let's quickly do a save and run this and we can talk about the archive a bit.
We'll first see if that particular file is being generated for us.
So you can see that the execution is happening.
And do you want to proceed?
I'm just going to say yes.
And if I go to the test log over here, you can see that it has actually created a test log file.
You cannot actually see that in the artifacts.
If you go over here, basically within the artifact, you can only see the pipeline log, but there
is no file that we have created is actually being displayed.
And that's the reason I actually saved it.
So now if I want to see that particular test file that we just created, which is nothing but the log
test file dot txt, I can actually create what is called as an artifact file.
So once the deployment is done, I need to create an artifact.
So let's say if I want to do an artifacts creation.
So let's search for artifacts.
You can see there is something called as archive the artifacts.
I can choose this particular step and I'm going to give the name of the file, which is nothing but
the log file.
Log test, file dot txt and I'm going to hit save.
I'm going to hit save run.
I guess this is log test file.
That's what I gave as the name of the file and I'm executing the test.
So the build is now waiting for us to proceed.
The deployment.
I'm just going to hit Proceed.
And let's go to the artifact this time.
And you can see that we have this log text file and the content of the log text file is going to be
the content that we just gave within that particular file itself.
So you can see that this is also happening for us automatically, which is pretty cool.
So now if I just do a git pull over here within my studio code, you can see that the syntax is right
file of the file, which is nothing but the log text file dot txt.
And this is the text that we have gave.
Now let's do one more thing.
So let's say if I want to access the environment variable, which is nothing but the chrome driver path
as well, I can do that as well within this particular file itself.
So let's put this as double quotes.
I'm going to paste this over here and then if I try to run this, it should work as well.
And this proves the point that for each and every step we can actually use the environment variables
that we have and we can leverage the power of it pretty much like a coding standard within this Jenkins
file, which is pretty, pretty cool.
You can also get some of the variables from one stage and then you can pass that to another stage using
environment variable, or you can create your own local environment variable stages and you can print
that as well.
For instance, if I want to create an environment over here and this is called as local variable, which
is going to be Hello local.
So this is the value that I'm going to be taking.
So this is the automation file log.
Or maybe I just change the content a bit.
This is the automation.
This is chrome driver path and I'm going to say and local variable value is going to be local variable,
something like that.
I'm just going to save this added right file content and let's do a git push.
So it would have added on the git without any doubt.
And now if I go back to the Jenkins app and go to the branch and if I try to execute this.
You can see the conditional waiting is coming over here.
Let's do proceed and let's go to the artifacts.
If I go to the log test file this time, you can see that it shows me the chrome driver path from the
environment variable, which is the common environment variable and the local variable which is coming
from the local environment that we just created over here.
So the environment is now specific to the local environment variable within the stage for that particular
step.
Or you can also take the common environment which can be used across all the stages and steps.
So this is the power of the declarative pipeline syntax itself.
It is too much powerful and we can do a lot of things over here.
And now let's say if I want to perform another conditional operation within my Jenkins, for instance,
okay, let me close these windows because there are so many windows already opened.
And if I go to the Jenkins pipeline over here?
And let's say if I want to edit this and let's say if there is a scenario where I need to perform a
deployment only if my application branch is off the master branch, not from any other branch.
So basically in order to demonstrate this, we need to at least have another branch, let's say development
branch or something like that to see this particular scenario in action.
So if I just do something like this, I'm going to make some changes on the, on this particular branch,
something like that in the.
Jenkins So I'm going to commit to a new branch that is the most easiest way that I can really think
of, and then I'm going to hit Save and Run.
So basically what I'm trying to do this time is I'm just going to create a new branch called Development
Branch from the master branch, and I'm just going to run our code and I'm going to see like, what
are the changes that I have made is going to execute or not.
So once you see that, once I try to execute this code, you can see that now I have two execution happening.
One is the master branch and another one is on the development branch.
So I need to basically run both the branch interactively this time, which is kind of crazy.
So I can also make sure that if it is a development branch, I don't really need to do this interactive
operation each and every time.
Only if it is a master branch, do a deployment.
If not, don't even do a deployment of my application, something like that.
So this is kind of a condition where I have brought in this time.
And because we have now two branches, the Blue Ocean theme might have already picked up two branches
for us over here automatically, which is also pretty cool.
So now you can independently run on two different pipelines same time.
So this is also one of the power guys.
This is what I was telling while I was talking about the Jenkins pipeline itself using the Jenkins file.
This is so powerful, it automatically knows that your code now has two branches.
One is the develop branch and another one is the master branch.
And Jenkins will automatically see works for you for both the pipeline regardless of you to create that
separately.
Whereas in the freestyle project or in the pipeline project earlier, you should be creating that manually
for each and every branches of your repository.
Well, as I said, we now have a development branch.
So if I do, if I just go to the Visual Studio code, you can see that it automatically takes for us.
And now if I just go to, let's say Development Branch over here, this is the remote branch.
I have checked out the code to the development branch over here.
And what I'm going to do this time is I'm going to perform a conditional operation of the deployment
this time.
So you can do a deployment operation only if it is going to be a development branch.
So there is something called as a Venn where I'm just going to say if the branch is going to be a master
branch, so only if it is a master branch, you do the deployment.
If it is going to be something like a development branch, don't even worry about it.
Right?
So I'm just going to save this guy.
Well, later we can also merge this within the development master branch itself, so I'm just going
to save this guy right now.
So I'm just going to check in this particular code it when condition and I'm going to do a git push
so you can see that we are working with a Jenkins as if like a code this time, which is also pretty
cool.
And now if I go over here to the development branch, you can see that there is this Jenkins file and
it shows you that there is a when statement where this when statement will now evaluate only if it is
going to be a master branch, then it do a deployment.
If not, don't even run this particular stage, something like that.
So if I just go to the development branch run this time, you can see what's going to basically happen.
Oops, sorry about that.
You can see that it tells me that this particular one is actually wrong because the error information
is not that clear anyways.
But it tells you that this one is actually throwing you an error in the workflow script.
Well, this has happened for a specific reason and I will tell you how you can actually resolve this
problem in a more and more intuitive manner in our upcoming videos.
But yes, you got the idea.
Right now we have an failure in the Jenkins file.
We now have to resolve this.
But in order to resolve this, please bear with me for our next video.
Stay tuned.
Talk to you in our next video.
Thank you.

--- Jenkinsfile syntax validator with VS Code ---

Hi guys.
My name is Karthik and I'm from Azure automation.com.
And welcome to our next video of build deploy test with Jenkins 2.0 and Docker.
And we have been talking about this declarative pipeline syntax of Jenkins and we are now in a verge
of completing that.
But in our last video we saw an error which was actually a very, very intentional error that I made
so that I can show you another feature of Visual Studio code.
So what I made last time in our last video was I created a win step within the parallel stage and we
saw that the code was actually not working for us.
But if you think of this, if this Jenkins file is kind of a file which is not very intelligent enough
in Visual Studio, which is not even going to tell you any errors, something like that, you can actually
use what is called as a validate Jenkins file plugin.
So once you run this particular validate Jenkins file plugin, it will tell you there is an error which
is happening within your code.
Something like this.
Well, where is this magic happened?
Well, guys, behind the scene, what I did is I actually installed an extension what is called as a
Jenkins file validator.
You can see there is something called as the Jenkins Pipeline Linter Connector.
This is nothing but a validation of a Jenkins file as well.
So this basically validates our Jenkins file, which we are actually working with.
So this is more like a code, guys, because our Jenkins file is more like a code.
We of course need a validation because this is more like a plain text.
We cannot tell that this particular code that we are writing over here is actually correct or not.
So in order for this to be executed, we have what is called as a Jenkins Pipeline Linter Connector
of Visual Studio Code, which will help you to do a validation as well.
And apart from this installation, I also made what is called as a settings change.
So if you go over here within my user settings of the Jenkins over here, you can also create a workspace
setting if you want.
But this is the user settings that I have made and you can see that I have specified the Jenkins pipeline
path over here and then the Jenkins username and password, something like this, admin and admin.
And then I also specified the Jenkins server which I'm running and the pipeline model converter validate.
So if you're wondering how I got these information, if you go to the Jenkins pipeline over here, it
actually tells you all these details for you over here.
So these are the information I actually grabbed and then I just pasted within my settings.
And these things are actually coming for me over here.
I can probably add this same thing like the settings within my Visual Studio code of the workspace settings
so that you don't really have to worry about all these settings.
I can probably add that within our GitHub repo, but yes, this is the whole idea.
So once you install the Jenkins pipeline Linter Connector, you will also gain the ability to validate
the Jenkins file and make sure that you are not doing something wrong like what we did in our earlier
video.
So you can see that this is what happened.
So the when is actually sitting in a wrong place and that's why it tells you that this is wrong.
Well, it is not that intuitive.
But still, yes, it proves the point that this is actually working fine.
So if I put this over here and if I just do a validate Jenkins this time, it tells me that this Jenkins
file is all good right now.
So basically, this one should be sitting within a stage, not within a parallel itself.
So that's the whole idea.
Now, if I do a validate Jenkins, you can see that the Jenkins is all good, so no problem on that
side.
So that's the major thing, guys.
This is the reason why I made this intentional exception.
And now if I go over here and let's say added when incorrect place of stage and let's check in the code
and I also do a git push and now hopefully this code should not be throwing as an error.
So let's try to rerun this particular build.
Oops, it's not happening I guess.
Let's go to the branch.
Let's try to execute this.
All right.
So now you can see that the execution has happened and you can see that the deployment is basically
completely skipped for us over here.
So the deployment is completely skipped because this is a development branch and because this is a development
branch, this particular deployment is not even going to happen, which is pretty cool.
So now we have completely skipped our deployment if the branch is actually a developed branch, but
if it is a master branch, then you would expect the application to be deployed.
So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to be creating a pull request of this particular branch
so that I can merge that within the master branch without deleting this particular development branch.
What I'm going to do is merge the one stage of Jenkins and I'm going to create a pull request.
To the master branch over here.
It is now created by automation.
So I'm just going to.
Create a merge.
Okay.
Merge the pull request.
I'm just going to confirm.
I'm not going to delete the branch.
I'm just going to leave the development branch as it is.
So this branch is going to still exist there, which is all good.
And now if I go to the code you can see that I will have a develop branch and a master branch for us,
which is also pretty good.
And if I go to the Jenkins pipeline over here and if I go to the develop branch, if I try to execute
this code and this one, what will happen is within the master, basically the deployment is going to
happen.
You can see that the wait for interactive input comes in.
Do you want to do a deployment?
If I do, a proceed is going to happen.
Whereas if I go to the develop branch over here, you can see that the development is complete, the
deployment is completely skipped in the develop branch.
And the reason is because we don't want the deployment to happen if it is going to be a develop branch.
So this is what it is, guys.
This is the power of pipelines in Jenkins and this is the power of the declarative syntax, declarative
pipeline syntax of Jenkins, which makes all sorts of things much, much easily.
We can even empower, we can even leverage the power of declarative syntax even more in our upcoming
videos while we actually are going to work with Dockers and how we can create an agent of the Docker
to run the build for us and how we can do a real deployment of applications and all those details.
But yes, this is what is the declarative pipelines of Jenkins.
And once again, thank you very much for watching this video and you have a great day.
