

=== Course Introduction ===


--- Introduction to Understanding Jira for Users, Managers, and Admins ---

Hello and welcome to understanding JIRA for users, managers and admins.
My name is Dan Lefebvre and for over a decade now I've consulted for and helped develop standards,
processes and workflows for organizations and companies around the world who are using JIRA for project
management.
Along the way, I've picked up a ton of tips and tricks that I'll sprinkle throughout this course,
but our core focus today is how you can get up to speed with Jiras powerful capabilities as fast as
possible, and we'll start by learning some of the specific terms and concepts that JIRA just assumes,
you know, ahead of time.
And we'll also set some expectations about this course, because the team behind JIRA has started rolling
out some major changes to terminology and the interface.
So we'll learn more about what to expect from this course regarding all those changes.
From there, we'll jump into JIRA itself to start seeing those concepts in action from the perspective
of someone who is just using Jira on a day to day basis without worrying about Jiras administrative
back end.
After that, we'll build on that knowledge by learning how team leaders and managers can benefit from
Jiras core features, along with some tips and tricks that I've learned from my wide range of clients
over the years.
And then finally, we'll wrap up this course with a look at the back end as a global JIRA administrator,
so you'll know some of the key things that you need to know to get your team up and running in JIRA.
Now we've got a ton to cover throughout this course, but before we get started, let's take a couple
minutes in our next video for me to set up how this course is organized so you can get the most out
of our time together.
See you there.

--- How to Use This Course Successfully ---

In this video, we'll take a few moments to look at how this course is organized, so you'll be able
to get the most out of it.
Now, JIRA is a tool that can be used differently depending on what your needs are.
As an example, if you're setting up JIRA for your company, you'll need to know more about the back
end of how JIRA works than if you're just using projects that someone else has set up.
So while I would recommend watching this entire course, it's also designed in a way that you can just
skim some videos if you only need a refresher.
Like most software, Jira is constantly being updated with new features being added all the time, but
it's not like software gets updated all at once.
Those updates are rolled out as they're completed.
So in an effort to keep this course up to date with those new features as they roll out, that's exactly
the same style of updating that I'll be doing with this course, with each of the five core sections
constantly being updated one at a time.
This first section is pretty self-explanatory.
It's the introduction, and it's what you're watching right now.
The key takeaway from this first section is to get an expectation for what the rest of the course will
cover.
This is an introductory level course, and it's intended to teach you the core fundamentals that you
need to know to get up and running inside of JIRA.
In the second section, we'll start laying the groundwork for some of the key terms and concepts that
you'll see inside of JIRA.
This is a great example of what I was talking about a moment ago, where it might be okay to skim some
videos, because if you're already familiar with agile methodology, then you're already familiar with
some of the terms that JIRA itself never really explains, like user stories and epics.
But if you're new to agile, then Jira might be extra confusing because it just assumes that you already
know some key terms and concepts.
So we're going to cover those in this section.
But even if you are familiar with agile, I still wouldn't recommend skipping this entire section because
we're going to cover some JIRA specific concepts too.
For example, everyone knows what a project is, but what does Jira mean when it refers to a project?
It might not be what you think, so we'll break all of that down to understand some JIRA terms and concepts
as well.
In the third section, that's where we're going to open JIRA for the first time.
This section is targeted at anyone who is using JIRA without any additional permissions.
That means you don't have to have administrative permissions for the features in this section.
We'll be logged in as a regular JIRA user for everything in this section, as we cover topics like navigating
the interface, understanding the different views and the core features inside JIRA.
Ultimately, if you're going to be using JIRA at all, then you'll need to know everything that we're
going to cover in this section.
Another common use for JIRA comes if you are a manager or team leader.
Now, an important thing to keep in mind is that by default, JIRA does not have a special setting for
managers or team leaders.
With that said, though, in my experience, I've had managers at companies that I've worked for ask
me to set up extra permissions for managers or team leaders so they can customize JIRA for their teams.
And that's what we'll be looking at in this section.
We'll look at things like creating an agile board for your team, and sharing items with your team to
help them get stuff done faster without needing the global JIRA administrator.
Instead, we'll be working as a project administrator in this section.
That means everything in this section is additive to the last one.
So we'll be building on the things that we learned from the last section as a user to add another layer
of knowledge to our JIRA mastery.
That brings us to section number five, JIRA for administrators.
And as the title implies, in this section we'll cover the back end of JIRA as an administrator.
So with that in mind, we'll build on all the sections up until this point.
As we look at things like creating the workflows your team will be using in JIRA.
As a global JIRA administrator, it's your job to get everything set up for your managers and the users
at your company.
So we'll learn how to do things like creating the company, managed projects, customizing them, as
well as how to set up the permissions for managers and team leaders.
Everything you need to know to get up and running as a new JIRA administrator.
Now, you might have noticed something that I mentioned a moment ago, and that is that each of these
sections is additive.
For example, before we hop into using JIRA in section number three, you'll need to know the essential
terms and concepts in section number two before using some of the elevated permissions in JIRA in section
number four.
You'll need to know how to use JIRA in section number three.
And before you're a global JIRA administrator, you'll need to know everything in the sections before
section number five.
One of the greatest things about JIRA is that it is extremely flexible.
So while this course is designed to build on each section before it, feel free to hop around and watch
what you need to know to help you with your own JIRA productivity.
So those are the core sections of this course that will continually be updated here on Udemy after I'm
done updating this section.
Section number one that you're watching right now, I'll start making any necessary updates to section
number two, then section number three, four and five, rolling out each section's updates as they're
completed until the entire course is updated.
And then I'll start all over again, refreshing the course with any new updates that JIRA may have made
in that time, as well as any new tips and tricks from working with my consulting clients since the
last course.
Refresh.
What that means for you is that once you're a student, thanks to Udemy's lifetime license, you'll
get all the future updates for free forever, making this the only course you'll ever need to understand
the core features in JIRA.
That leads us to the final section.
Over the years that this course has been a bestseller on Udemy, I've had a lot of questions come through
Udemy's Q&amp;A functionality.
Sometimes it's a simple question that's faster to understand through typing out the answer, and other
times it's better to explain the answer by recording a quick video.
Those videos will get added to the section so everyone can get the answer to questions that anyone else
might have.
With that in mind, though, I want to point out that as much as I would love to answer every single
question, there's just so much customization that you can do inside of JIRA.
It makes it impossible to answer every single question in Udemy's Q&amp;A, because sometimes the questions
are simply beyond the scope of the things that we're covering in this introduction to JIRA.
So by all means, feel free to ask your questions.
But this course is not designed to be tech support for your company's JIRA installation.
So in those cases, I would recommend reaching out to Atlassian support team or hiring a consultant
who can see how things are set up in your organization's unique JIRA installation and help you with
that.
Alrighty, now that we have a good understanding of how this course is organized, let's move on to
our next section where we'll start learning about some of the key terms and concepts that we need to
know.


=== Terms & Concepts ===


--- Introduction to the Terms and Concepts Section ---

Hello and welcome to the Terms and Concepts section.
Before we dive into JIRA, it's important to understand some of the concepts that will come across once
we get there.
For example projects.
That's a simple term, right?
We all know what a project is.
After all, we tackle projects every day at work and at home.
Come to think of it, maybe you're like me and you use the definition of projects from David Allen's
Getting Things Done, which says a project is something that you need to get done that has multiple
tasks.
Simple, right?
Well, that's not at all how JIRA uses the term projects.
So even though the concept of projects isn't anything new, if you've never used Jira before, then
how Jira uses projects and structures.
Things inside of them may be a little confusing.
Because what Jira refers to as a project isn't really what you think of when you think of the tasks
that you have to do at work each day.
All these terms and concepts covered in this section are the key things that I've had colleagues or
students over the years asking questions about.
Not necessarily just what they are, but specifically what JIRA means for them.
And on that note, let's start with breaking down what Jira does and what it doesn't do, and we'll
learn about that in our next video.


=== Jira for Users ===


--- Jira Defined: What It Does and What It Doesn’t Do ---

In this video.
We'll take a couple minutes to understand exactly what jeera does, and perhaps just as importantly,
what jeera doesn't do.
Simply put, jeera is an agile project management and work tracking tool.
As a fun little fact, the name jeera comes from Gojira, the Japanese name for Godzilla.
The team at Atlassian got that from bugzilla, which in turn was developed by Mozilla for tracking bugs.
Well, as the story goes, the team at Atlassian wanted something more powerful than bugzilla could
provide to track bugs and their work.
So they decided to create their own in-house tool, and that ended up becoming what we now know as JIRA.
By the way, you'll notice I mentioned the name Atlassian.
I am not associated with Atlassian at all, but you're going to hear that name throughout this course
because Atlassian is the name of the company that makes JIRA.
But there's another term in that definition of Jira that we're going to hear a lot throughout this course
as well.
Agile.
Now, there are a lot of different ways that companies organize their projects waterfall, Six Sigma,
Prince2, and so on.
Some of those methodologies or ways of organizing and getting work done are similar, and some of them
are quite different from each other.
And I'm not here to say that one is better than another, because different organizations and teams
might work better with one over the other.
For our purposes today, though, it's important to understand what works best in your organization
or even in your teams.
And sometimes different teams in the same organization can use different project management frameworks,
and the framework that your company uses can determine what tool you're going to use to organize all
that work.
And that brings us to understanding what Jira is not because I've worked with teams that have used apps
or plugins to get JIRA to work with different frameworks like waterfall, but by default and without
any extended capabilities.
JIRA just isn't designed to use any of these other frameworks, so it's probably going to feel like
you're swimming upstream if you try that.
What Jira is designed for is one of the most popular project management frameworks out there, called
agile methodology.
And when you're using JIRA, it's just going to assume that that is what your team is using.
So we've answered what JIRA is not.
It is not designed for every project management framework out there, but it is designed for an agile
workflow.
And that begs another question what exactly is agile project management?
Now, this course is not designed to be a deep dive into agile methodology itself, because that could
be its own course by itself without ever touching JIRA.
But because JIRA project management tools revolve around agile, that means there are a lot of agile
terms and concepts that we're going to come across inside of Jira, and that's why it's important to
take some time to understand the basics of agile methodology.
And that's exactly what we're going to do in our next video.


=== Jira for Managers and Team Leaders ===


--- Understanding the Basics of Agile ---

In this video, we'll get an overview of agile methodology.
Now, before we begin, let's set some expectations for this video.
Because learning the ins and outs of agile methodology could be an entire course by itself.
But then we wouldn't have any time left to learn JIRA.
So the purpose of this video is not to be an in-depth look at agile, but instead the purpose of this
video is to help you learn enough about how agile works, so you'll be able to understand how JIRA works
once we get in there, because it just assumes that you already know all of this information.
For our purposes today, the term agile refers to a set of rules and practices that teams around the
world use to get stuff done.
In my experience, I've worked with teams of developers, creative marketing, customer service, and
more that are all using agile methodology.
But it's always helpful to keep in mind that agile history was being founded by software developers
in the early 2000.
That's important because there's a lot of terminology and concepts inside of agile that come from the
position of being for software developers.
And we'll see that once we get into JIRA as well.
But for now, just keep that in mind.
A big reason agile has grown to be so popular as a project management methodology used by all kinds
of teams, even outside of software development, is because it's proven itself to be a framework that
helps teams adapt their planning strategies ahead of time, while also giving everyone on the team the
freedom they need to organize their own work.
It helps ensure everyone is constantly improving.
That helps teams be flexible enough for those inevitable times when you'll have to change directions
or make quick decisions.
In other words, being agile.
So simply put, when a team at your organization is using agile methodology, you are an agile team.
But exactly how do agile teams manage to get all of that done?
Perhaps the most fundamental thing for agile team is to track work on an agile board.
So here is an example of what an agile board looks like with these columns.
Sometimes in agile you might hear them called lanes, but in JIRA they're called columns.
So that's the terminology we're going to use today.
Think of these columns as the steps you need to get a project done.
Going from left to right the column on the far left is the backlog.
Then in a simple project there will be three columns to do or not started in progress and done.
Of course, agile boards can get even more complex if your team's workflow needs more steps, and we're
going to look at that later on in this course.
But for now, we're learning this concept.
So keep the board structure in mind because there are two key types of agile boards that we can use
in JIRA.
These two types of agile boards are tied directly to the two core frameworks in agile methodology.
One of those is called scrum and the other is Kanban.
Each of these have their own workflow, and the differences in these workflows again, could be an entire
course in and of itself.
But for our purposes today, when it comes to how they're used in JIRA, there's really one key difference
to keep in mind.
And that difference has to do with something called a sprint scrum.
Agile has sprints while Kanban does not have sprints.
Which begs the question what's a sprint?
A sprint is an agile term that refers to a block of time that your team will fill with work to get done.
The basic idea is to fill it up completely so you're sprinting to the end and not walking.
Since a sprint is a pretty abstract concept, let's walk through an example.
First, we'll have to establish an important parameter for our sprint example because as we just learned,
a sprint is a predetermined amount of time.
What I mean by that is different teams will have different sprint lengths.
In my experience, the most common time length for sprint is two weeks, but I've worked with teams
that prefer one week or even up to a month, although it is rare to go more than a month.
So for this example, let's go with two weeks.
I would recommend starting shorter maybe a week or two, and then you can always decide to change that
time period later on.
If your team feels that maybe it's not meeting enough, or maybe it's meeting too much.
I've even worked with teams who have a two week sprint, but then during the holiday crunch time, they
need to go to a one week sprint so their team will have more communication touch points.
That's part of what I mentioned earlier with agile being evolving and changing to your team's needs.
So on the first day of a sprint, it starts with a sprint meeting, and usually a sprint meeting will
have an agenda similar to this example, which kicks off by talking about the sprint that we just completed.
So let's go back to our agile board.
Normally we'd start by looking at the last sprint and we'll see that here soon.
But we've got to start somewhere.
So this is our first sprint.
So there's no last sprint to look at.
That means we don't have anything on the board yet.
The process before the sprint is the same though before the sprint meeting, everyone on the team adds
whatever they think needs to get done to the backlog.
Then during the sprint meeting, any new tickets or things that come up can get added to the backlog
as well.
On your side, you're probably going to have a lot more tickets than I do here in this example, but
we're keeping it simple with just a few tickets.
Since we're focused on the meeting agenda and the concepts rather than the specifics of the work itself.
So after all the tickets are added to the backlog, everybody has everything out of their minds of what
they think needs to get done.
Everyone on the team then decides and agrees on the work to get done for that sprint.
So in our example, we're doing a two week sprint.
What are the highest priorities for the next two weeks?
Those are the tickets that get moved over to the to do column.
Then the sprint meeting ends and everyone starts working on those tickets each morning in the sprint,
everyone on the team has what's called a standup meeting.
And it's called that because typically they're capped at about 15 minutes, and they're designed to
be so fast that no one even needs to sit down in a stand up meeting.
There are just a couple minutes for each person to quickly answer these questions.
What did you do yesterday?
What will you do today?
And what, if any, roadblocks do you have?
The idea behind these questions is so that everyone knows what's happening on the team.
And then if you're the team leader, it's a great chance to get a quick status update, as well as finding
out what sort of challenges your team might be facing.
Then, on the agile board during the what Will You Do today?
Part of the standup that days tickets will get pulled over to in-progress as everyone starts to get
their work done for that day.
And that's the basic cycle for how each day during the sprint will go.
Hopefully at the end of the day, that ticket is completed and then the next day during standup, the
next ticket is pulled over to in-progress to get completed.
Of course, in the real world, not everything goes according to plan every single day.
Sometimes people are going to come to you and ask you to get something done in the middle of a sprint.
Well, remember when I said the reason it's called a sprint is because everyone has it filled up to
sprint to the end.
That means everyone's time is already allocated for the sprint, and that's where the backlog comes
into play.
Anything new gets added to the backlog so it can be discussed in the next sprint meeting.
Of course, they might still be times where a very high priority item pops up in JIRA.
You'll get a notification when you add something to a sprint, because that changes the scope and risks
throwing off the chances of getting work done.
So most of the time you should add it to the backlog.
But if something really has to be added mid sprint, you'll want to sit down with your team leader to
find out what ticket can then get taken off your sprint.
After all, we only have so many hours in the day and they've already been accounted for.
That can be the discussion for the next stand up as part of the roadblocks question, since that should
be an exception rather than the rule, though in most cases those tickets will be added to your backlog
so you don't have to worry about them, and then you can just keep working on the tickets on your sprint
at the end of the sprint.
It's time for another sprint planning meeting, and since this isn't our first sprint anymore, sprint
meetings start with discussing the last sprint.
Looking at the tickets on the agile board going around the room, and each team member will have the
chance to answer those three questions about the work done in the sprint.
So in our example the past two weeks, what went well in the sprint?
This is a chance for everyone not only to celebrate their wins, but also share the areas that are going
smoothly.
So hopefully there's more of that in the future.
But of course, inevitably there are things that don't go well.
So in a sprint meeting, there's also a chance to review what didn't go well.
This is a great opportunity if you're the team leader, to see what sort of roadblocks there might be
on the team.
Maybe there were some technical issues or external communications that took longer than anyone expected.
Those are very valid reasons that can keep work from getting done in a sprint, but it's helpful to
let everyone know what's going on so that they can be overcome.
As we learned earlier, agile methodology is all about continuous improvement.
So when we're talking about what we can improve on for the next sprint, that's often when things like
roadblocks come up and how can we overcome them.
Maybe that's a chat about how we can better predict high priority work so things don't get added mid
sprint.
Or maybe it means we need to add or improve communications with another team.
What's something that we can do to try to resolve that in the next sprint?
And again, this is something where everyone agrees on the work that has to be done in the next sprint.
Usually, each team member has a good idea of what needs to get done next, but if there are new priorities
or deadlines, it's a good chance to chat about those.
The point to a lot of this is to keep getting better at how we get stuff done, but also to communicate
openly with the team, so nothing is happening in a silo.
That makes it a lot easier if you're a manager or a team leader, to help your team clear those roadblocks
to be more effective.
And that's what it's all about.
And then on the agile board, the last sprints tickets can be cleared off.
The new tickets get pulled onto the board for the next sprint, and the whole process repeats itself
again, and so on and so forth.
And that's how the process goes for sprints.
So that's an example of what a sprint workflow would look like.
And that's using the Scrum Agile workflow.
But not every team works best with sprints.
Sometimes it might be better for your team or projects to be working on an ongoing basis.
And that's where the Kanban agile framework comes into play.
So let's go back to our agile board to understand the Kanban workflow.
Now inside of JIRA, by default you will not find a backlog on a Kanban Agile board.
You can turn one on if you need to, and we'll look at how to do that.
But it's not enabled by default, because in a typical Kanban agile workflow, there's not a backlog.
Instead, with Kanban workflow, there aren't sprints, so all the tickets just get added to the to
do or not started column.
One crossover with Kanban and Scrum though, is the daily standup.
So each morning we're going to have our daily standup.
And that's when we pull tickets over that we want to get done that day.
And that process repeats over and over, essentially in perpetuity with a Kanban workflow that doesn't
have a backlog.
Any new tickets that get added will go directly to the to do column.
You'll notice the goal here is to try to get each ticket all the way to being done before starting on
the next one.
That is universal for all agile workflows, because you don't want to end up with a bunch of things
in progress that aren't completed.
So when we have a ticket that's in progress and something new is added to the to do column in Kanban
workflow, we're not going to start working on that right away until what's in progress gets moved over
to done.
Of course, just like we talked about with sprints, sometimes there are high priority items that require
you to stop working on anything that's in progress to get that done right away.
But that's where the daily standup comes into play, where you can discuss those roadblocks and then
decide as a team on what approach is best to move forward.
And since there's not a sprint in Kanban, you can clear off tickets from the done column any time.
Although once we get inside of Gerrit, we're going to learn how that ties into a JIRA specific feature
on Kanban boards.
Whew!
Okay, we've covered a ton in this video.
And as I mentioned at the beginning of this video, there's so much more depth that we can go into when
it comes to agile.
But now you have a good idea of the Scrum and Kanban workflows, and that will be extremely important
once we hop into JIRA.
But before we do that, there are some other concepts that we need to learn about.
So let's move on to our next video where we're going to break down a few more agile terms that you'll
see inside of JIRA.


=== Jira for Administrators ===


--- Agile Terms You Need to Know ---

In this video, we'll look at a couple of agile terms.
We're going to come across a lot inside of Jira stories and epics.
So this is what it looks like when you create a new work item inside Jira.
Most of these make sense, but this right here is one of the most common reasons why I get this question
from folks who are new to JIRA.
Why does this say story?
And what's an epic mean?
Let's start with the story.
What this is referring to is a concept inside of agile methodology called user stories.
So the basic formula for a user story is this as a insert type of user I want some goal so that some
reason.
So here's an example of what that formula looks like when we fill it in.
As an iPhone user, I want the website to load quickly so that I can view it on my mobile device.
And right away with this user story, you can tell mobile access is important.
So what?
That brings a lot of other things like responsive design and layout that aren't even mentioned into
the picture, but because we know the user story mentions mobile, we know that's going to be important.
User stories can apply to anything really.
So let's say we're developing an app for a car instead of a website.
As a driver, I want my car's navigation to be voice activated so that I can get directions safely while
driving.
This is another example of how there will be a lot of tasks and things to get this accomplished, but
with the user story formula, we're focusing on the end result.
And then it's our job as the designers, developers and so on to get that done.
Or maybe we're using JIRA for something other than development.
The user story formula can work for that too.
As a photographer, I want to capture creative effects in camera so that I can reduce my editing time.
This one has nothing to do with development, but if you've ever done photography, sometimes you want
to find out how to get creative effects in camera instead of trying to do it all in some image editing
software like Photoshop.
I could go on, but hopefully by now you're starting to get the idea of how a user story formula can
help you focus on the end result more than each individual task.
Now, of course, in the real world, I've seen a lot of teams that don't follow the user story formula
inside of JIRA when they're creating stories.
Since a story is the default work item in JIRA.
Most of the time I've seen people just type in whatever the task or project is that they need to get
done.
But now you know why JIRA has a story and what it's referring to.
If that's how you want to use it.
And that brings us to the other type of work that we see a lot in Jira epics.
Probably the easiest way to think of epics is like a big, massive sized, well, epic story.
Not every story needs to live in an epic, but if you have something that you know is going to span
multiple sprints, then you can track all of that by putting it into an epic.
So let's go back to our first user story example to see how an epic fits into all of this.
Here's the story that we had before.
Well, if we tie this into the bigger picture of the overall website, that's probably not something
that we're going to get done all at once, the entire site, so we can break down the epic into different
user stories.
This last one is a good example of how a user story extends beyond just the functionality itself.
Because it mentions a checkout system, then we'd probably need to build even more user stories to start
building how that would work.
Or maybe the checkout system is its own epic and then it has user stories inside of it.
How your team organizes all of this really depends on what works best for you and your team.
But now you have a good idea of what user stories are, what epics are, and how they can work together
to break down huge projects into smaller, bite sized pieces that focus on the end goal from a user's
perspective.
So to recap, when you see a story mentioned in JIRA, it's referring to the agile term user stories.
You can think of epics like the parents in the hierarchical relationship with user stories.
Now, there are other types of work that we can track inside Jira as well.
And we'll look at that later on in this course.
But right now is when I get a very common question.
Wait a minute.
Aren't you just describing the projects that I had to get done at work?
But JIRA has projects and they're not the same thing as stories and epics.
So what about projects then?
Well, that's exactly the sort of thing that can make JIRA so confusing when you first jump in.
But now that we're familiar with what stories and epics are, let's hop into our next video where we're
going to clarify some of the JIRA terms that we need to know.
See you there.


=== Tips and Tricks for Everyone ===


--- Jira Terms You Need to Know ---

In this video, we'll learn about some very important terms that we're going to see a lot inside of
JIRA work items, issues and projects.
Now, at first, these terms seem very straightforward.
For example, we all know what projects are.
We've talked about that in earlier videos.
But in my experience, these terms are probably some of the most difficult for people who are new to
JIRA to wrap their head around.
Because simply put, what Jira means with these terms might not be what you think it does.
So that's the purpose of this video, to make sure we're all on the same page with these terms.
And let's start with issues, because there's been a huge change with this term recently.
In March of 2025, Atlassian announced that they are replacing the term issue with work or work items
on Jira Cloud.
As of this recording, they have not made the announcement for Jira Data Center, and I'm not associated
with Atlassian, so I don't have any insider knowledge to share about that.
But I would expect that everything will shift from issue to work at some point in the future.
But to be honest, Atlassian doesn't always move fast in making these changes because there are just
so many people around the world using their software, so it might be years before the term is changed
everywhere.
Especially considering they've used the term issue since JIRA first launched back in 2002.
So we're talking over 20 years of code and software to update.
All of that is to say, you might still see the term issue showing up here and there, but throughout
this course I'm going to be using the term work or more often than not, work item, depending on the
context, to talk about what used to be an issue in JIRA.
As a quick side note, it's not really a JIRA term, but it is worth pointing out that along with the
work terminology change, the team at Atlassian has also made some major changes to the interface.
Whether or not you see these changes will depend on the version of JIRA that you're using, so we're
going to learn more about that in our next video.
But all these changes might make JIRA look and feel different, but the core functionality is still
the same because even back when we called them issues, they were still at the heart of everything that
you'll track in JIRA.
Just like work is now, the reason they're at the heart of everything is because your work in JIRA will
contain all the fields that you want to track the due dates, description, comments and so on.
They all live inside of your work items.
One of my favorite ways to explain work items is to think of them like post-it notes or sticky notes.
If you're not going for the name brand.
So we've got these sticky notes here.
The note itself is really just something for you to keep your information on.
You can put any sort of information that you want on it.
You can even color coordinate your notes if you want.
And this ties into JIRA because that's exactly what it's like for work inside JIRA.
You can have different types of work that you need to do.
So maybe the green sticky notes are user stories that we learned about in our last video.
The red ones are bugs.
The blue ones are simple tasks and so on.
But it doesn't stop there because we can tell JIRA what sort of information we want to store on that
work item based on the type.
So maybe on the tasks we have a due date on the stories.
There are labels and priority.
But for bugs, it would really help to attach a screenshot of the bug to be able to get those fixed.
All of this is customizable, of course, but you can start to get an idea for what JIRA means when
it's talking about work items and how you can have different fields on different work.
Okay, so now that we have a better idea of work items, let's see how they fit into projects in JIRA.
As I mentioned earlier, project in Jira aren't really what you think of when you think of projects
that you do day in, day out at work.
By that, what I mean is, when you start a new project at work, that doesn't necessarily mean you're
going to start a new project in JIRA.
We just learned that work items are containers holding all your fields.
Well, all that work lives inside of a project.
So let's go back to our example work.
This top row of work lives in a graphics project.
This work in the middle are things for our front end developers.
That's in a project for our front end developers.
And then these bottom work items are for our back end developers.
Now, what's cool about the way that this works in JIRA is we can tell Jira what sort of work types
and fields we want in each project.
So maybe the blue sticky notes are our tasks, right?
Well, maybe for the graphics team we need to track the due date on tasks.
But for the front end development team, we need to track a link to our code repository.
Maybe for our back end team that they need a completely different type of work for new features that
the other projects don't even need.
As you can tell, there's a ton of customization that we can start to do with this structure that we
have inside of JIRA.
And of course, we'll be looking at how to do all of these sorts of customizations once we get into
JIRA.
But to recap what we've learned about in this video, we learned that all the data we want to track
is stored in the fields on work items.
Then those work items live inside of projects.
Now, a moment ago, I mentioned the terminology change from issues to work items that has only been
announced for Jira cloud and not Jira Data Center.
And that leads right into our next video, because that's where we're going to learn all about the different
versions of JIRA, as well as the version of JIRA that we're going to be using in this course.
See you there.

--- Terminology Update: Projects Are Now Spaces ---

Hey there, I've got a quick update, so I know we just went through learning about projects in JIRA
and how issues are now called work.
Well, I went through and finished updating the rest of the course, and then Atlassian announced they're
also changing the term projects to be called spaces.
So I will be updating the entire course to reflect that terminology change, as well as any other changes
Atlassian will be making in the future.
But instead of waiting for me to get that done, the fastest way to let you know about this update is
with this quick video.
In fact, throughout this course you will be seeing it called projects because the update calling them
spaces hasn't even hit my version of JIRA yet.
But the announcement has been made.
So by the time you see this, there is a chance that they'll be called spaces on Your side.
And I just wanted to let you know what's going on there.
The functionality is the same.
It's just a terminology change.
Just like how the term issues has been changed to work.
If you have any other questions, feel free to throw them in the Q&amp;A or check out the official announcement
from Atlassian.
Okay, now let's get back to the rest of the course.

--- Getting to Know the Different Versions of Jira ---

Throughout this course, it's possible you'll notice some differences in the version of JIRA that I'm
using on my side, and the version of Jira that you're using.
Now, there's no way for me to know what specific version you're using on your side.
So in this video, we'll learn about the different versions out there, as well as the version that
I'm going to be using on my end.
Throughout this course.
So these are the key versions of JIRA that you might come across, although I will point out right away
that in 2024, Atlassian decided to merge Jira Software and Jira Work management into a single version
simply called Jira.
I mainly want to point that out in case you still see references to Jira software or Jira work management
anywhere, you'll know that they've been merged.
Now, before we go any further, I also want to clarify that no matter what version of JIRA you're using
on your site, this course is focusing on the core concepts and features of JIRA, so you'll still be
able to use this course no matter what version you're using.
But because different versions of Jira have some different features, obviously if you're using a different
version, you might come across some differences.
A good analogy for this is what it's like to learn how to ride a bicycle.
There can be different features depending on the model bicycle that you have, but the core features
it gets you from point A to point B when you're learning how to ride a bike are the same.
And that's what we're focusing on here today.
When it comes to JIRA, we're focusing on the core features that will get you up and running as fast
as possible in JIRA.
With that said, obviously I have to be using at least one version of JIRA in this course.
So in this course, I'm going to be using the most popular version of Jira out there, that version
simply called JIRA.
Now, a moment ago I mentioned that you still might see Jira software and Jira work management pop up
in the interface, even though they are merged into JIRA.
And the reason I mention that brings up a great point, because how you license Jira can have a huge
impact on the version of JIRA that you have as well.
Now there are two key ways that you can license Jira.
Either it can be on the cloud where it's a subscription, just like we're all used to with a cloud subscription,
Atlassian manages everything, and you'll always have access to the latest version of Jira as it is
released.
The catch to a cloud license is the customization You can install approved add ons to customize it some,
but Atlassian doesn't let you write your own code or do advanced customizations for security purposes.
Since all of it is hosted on Atlassian servers.
With a datacenter license, you are licensing JIRA so that you can install it on your own organization
servers, so you're free to do a lot more customization to it.
But that also means you have to maintain all those updates as well.
This is important for this course because if your organization is using a datacenter license, it's
very possible you're using an older version of JIRA.
For example, one of my consulting clients recently was still using a version of Jira software that's
over six years old.
So of course Atlassian has made a lot of updates in those six years, including the mere fact that your
software is now just called JIRA.
As we learned.
So their version of Jira looked very different than the latest version, but they were still able to
follow along with this course to learn the core features.
And the same could be true for your organization too, if you're using an older version.
Now, the team at Atlassian has recently made some major updates to the JIRA interface, and those updates
were rolled out to the JIRA cloud licenses first.
So again, if your organization is still using Jared Data Center, you probably won't see those changes
until your organization's JIRA admin makes the update manually.
There's also a chance of a new feature or update in JIRA itself that may have come out, but hasn't
made its way into this course yet.
For example, we just learned in the last video that the term issue has been in JIRA since 2002, and
it's now going to be changed to be called work or work items.
But even then, Atlassian has said that it will take many months to roll out that update, and since
they've been calling it issues since 2002, Atlassian has also acknowledged that there might still be
some places in the interface that we see the term issue being used for the foreseeable future.
So depending on when that update hits your version, compared to when I'm able to get this course updated
with those changes, there might be some differences between what you see on your side and what I'm
using in this course.
Fortunately, that doesn't happen very often, whether you call it an issue or work the way that they
actually work inside of JIRA is the same.
I just want to point this out in case there are more updates in the future that happen.
Similarly, rest assured that this course will constantly be updated to reflect all the changes that
you need to know.
But that's not all.
Another reason why your version of JIRA might be different than mine is something that I alluded to
before.
JIRA does have the ability to customize its features using add ons.
A lot of these are third party add ons made by a wide range of companies.
And as you can see from this screenshot here, there are over a thousand of them, so there's no way
that we can get to cover them all today.
So as a quick recap, in this course I will be using the latest version of JIRA.
As of this recording with a cloud license that has no extra add ons.
Those extra add ons are usually an extra cost to purchase from the Atlassian marketplace as well.
So if you'd like to see more advanced courses on specific third party apps or other versions of JIRA,
feel free to let me know.
But for now, we are ready to hop into Jira and we'll do that in our next section.

--- Introduction to the Jira for Users Section ---

Hello and welcome to the section All About Jira for users.
Throughout the videos in this section, we'll take a look at some of the key features that you'll be
using on a daily basis inside of JIRA.
To do that, we'll build on the terms and concepts that we learned about in the last section.
So if you haven't had a chance to check that out, I would highly recommend doing that first.
And because this section is focused on using JIRA, we'll be logged into JIRA as an end user with no
administrative permissions at all.
We'll start by getting an overview of Jiras interface.
Then we'll take some of the concepts like Workitems and projects that we learned about in the last section,
and actually see what they look like inside JIRA.
We'll learn how to create work items, find them, use them on agile boards, both Scrum and Kanban
boards, using team managed projects, company managed projects, and so much more.
Now we have a lot to cover.
So when you're ready, let's get started in our next video where we'll get an overview of Jiras interface.

--- Getting Familiar with Jira's Interface ---

In this video, we'll start getting familiar with JIRA by looking at its interface.
Now, one of the first things that you might notice is my version of Jira might look a little different
than yours.
This goes back to what I mentioned in an earlier video with JIRA interface change that happened in May
of 2025 as part of the terminology update from issues to work or work items.
And since I'm using the latest version of JIRA in this course, if you're using an older version, that
might be why JIRA looks different on your side.
But even if Jira looks different, the basic concepts are still the same.
For example, you'll still be taken to the same area called your work that you can see right here.
By default, when you log into JIRA and I say by default because like most things in JIRA, we can customize
this.
We'll look at how to do that later on in this course.
But in here we can see all the different things that we've worked on, assuming of course we've actually
worked on something.
As you can see, this is what it looks like the very first time we logged into JIRA.
And that's why there's not a lot right now because we're just getting started.
So if I were to pull over another window where we can see the your work page as logged in as my global
JIRA administrator that we'll be using later on in this course, we can see there's a lot more work,
right?
Because I've actually worked on a lot more than with this user account that this is the first time we're
logging in.
So we'll start to see this fill up as we go through this course.
But for now, let's just start by getting an understanding of what we're looking at here.
And I want to start by moving to the top left of the interface, because this is where the main navigation
will be.
With our sidebar, we can either collapse or expand this using this icon on the top.
Or as we can see, we hover over it.
The keyboard shortcut is Open Bracket to expand or collapse this sidebar, and we'll be looking at all
these different features in the sidebar throughout this course.
But up here next to the sidebar, we have these four dots.
These dots are called the app switcher because they let us switch between any of the Atlassian apps
that we have access to.
For example, you can see I have a license to confluence that is Atlassian wiki documentation tool.
Now, confluence is outside the scope of what we're learning about in JIRA today, because confluence
is its own separate app.
But I want to point this out because if you have access to multiple JIRA installations, actually let
me pull over my JIRA administrator account, because if I come into the app switcher here, we can see
I actually have multiple JIRA instances that I have access to with this account.
Now, I already mentioned in a previous video, I'm not going to be able to go in there for the privacy
of my consulting clients, but I do want to point out that if you have additional JIRA instances, you'll
have access to them up here in the app switcher.
Next to the app switcher is your company's logo, which takes us back to our home.
Now, in this case, it is the Your Work page that we're on when we log in by default for the first
time.
And I know this is pretty straightforward, but you'll notice that this is not the Gira logo.
It's my company's logo.
I specifically wanted to change that because every single company or client I've ever worked with.
One of the very first things that Gira administrator does is to change the logo from the default Gira
logo to their company logo.
So the chances are very good that this will be one of the things that will look different on your side,
because if your administrator has customized this to add your company's logo, well, obviously it won't
be the same as my company's logo.
And don't worry if you are the Gira administrator, we'll look at where we can change this later on
in this course once we get into the back end of Gira.
Moving along now in this video next to the customizable company icon, we have search.
Now this is another area that we'll be using a lot in this course.
And you'll be using a lot in your day to day with Gira.
So you'll save a lot of time using these shortcuts.
As we can see, the keyboard shortcut for searching in Gira is the forward slash.
Not only will we be looking at search tips throughout this course, but we'll also dedicate some time
to understanding this search interface a little later on.
But for now, in this video, let's continue our overview of this interface with another feature that
has a global shortcut that we'll be using a lot in this course.
Create.
This will let us create a new work item.
And again we'll be using this a lot throughout this course.
But just like we learned about the keyboard shortcut for search, the create button has its own shortcut
that's worth practicing.
That is C as in create.
So anytime we're working in Jira we need to create a new work item.
Just tap C and this dialog will pop up.
Just like with search, we'll look at how this dialog is organized later on and how to customize it.
But for now, focus on memorizing some of these shortcuts to help speed up your work in JIRA.
The last few icons on the right side of Gira's menu are a little more straightforward.
First are the notifications.
So there's not a lot in here right now because we haven't gotten any notifications yet.
But as we go through this course, you'll start seeing some numbers pop up here.
Basically, you'll get notifications if someone comments on an issue that you're watching, or someone
tags your username somewhere in JIRA, things like that.
And this is just a quick way to hop to wherever those notifications come from, whatever work items
they're on.
This is a quick way to get there.
And then there's the help icon.
Again another simple icon.
But I want to point it out because if at any point as you're following along with this course, if something
doesn't make sense, then make use of this.
Atlassian has some extremely detailed and incredibly helpful documentation that can answer just about
any question that you have.
And even if it doesn't, then Atlassian support team is amazing.
Even though I am not associated with Atlassian at all, I have interacted with our support team a lot
over the years, and they've been really helpful to either fix a problem or even just be someone to
bounce ideas off for best practices and how to set up and organize Jira.
Next to help is our settings.
Now, the key thing to keep in mind with our settings is what you see in this menu is directly tied
to the permissions that you have.
For example, right now I'm logged in as a user without any administrative permissions.
So we don't see very much in here.
But if I pull back my global administrator and look at the settings, we're going to have a lot more
settings in here as a global administrator because we have elevated permissions.
And again, we'll be using my global administrator account later on in this course.
So we'll go through a lot of those settings and what they are.
But just know that the settings that you have here are directly tied to your user permissions.
And then next to the settings gear, we have a few more personal settings.
So all the more clear cut things related to our account.
The profile picture, our password.
If you're like me and you prefer dark mode, we can switch into dark mode here.
And then in here actually is where we can customize the JIRA home page that we talked about at the start
of this video.
So if we come into our account settings And come to more the product settings into the JIRA settings.
We can see the JIRA home page and we can change this if we want to do that right in here.
Now I'm going to leave this at the default of your work.
And one more thing.
Just as a quick note, this is called product settings.
But as of this recording, Atlassian has announced that they're going to start calling them apps instead
of products.
As I mentioned before, with the app switcher switching between the different apps.
Uh, so there's a little mix match in the terminology there.
So if you see this, say app settings instead of product settings on your side, that's probably going
to be updated soon.
That's just a change in terminology to be aware of.
Okay, so now that we've looked at this top menu here, this video is starting to run a little bit long.
So let's take a break here.
And in our next video we'll continue looking at the interface by getting an overview of the items in
the sidebar.

--- First Look at Jira's Sidebar Features ---

In our last video, we started to get a look at Gira's interface and how it's laid out.
In this video, we'll continue right along by getting an overview of the features in the sidebar.
Now, the first thing I want to point out with this sidebar itself is if you're using Gira on a mobile
device, it will default to the responsive design where the sidebar is collapsed by default.
So if I were to make this browser window smaller, you can see there's no way to really pin this.
If I start working in Gira, then it's going to automatically collapse, as opposed to if I'm on a desktop
view and have a bigger browser, you can see the sidebar automatically pins.
Now we already learned how to expand and collapse that, so it's not really a big deal.
I just want to point that out because as of this recording, there's not really a way to pin the sidebar
open in the responsive design.
And before we get to an overview of these features, I want to point out this customization down here
at the bottom.
Because if the sidebar looks different on your side, then maybe it's been customized from the default.
And here is where you can hide or show these different features, or rearrange them however you'd like.
I'm going to keep mine at default throughout this course.
I just want to point this out so you can customize the sidebar however you'd like.
Okay, so let's hop back to the top here of this menu.
This is the For You menu item that takes you actually to the Your work page.
As we saw when we changed that the default where we saw we could do that.
It's called your work.
Historically it's been called your work.
If we look at the URL in the actual browser here, you can see it's called your work.
But there have been some terminology changes.
And so I would expect at some point it'll change to for you.
That seems to be the new name for this page.
Beneath that we have quick access to any work that we've updated or worked on recently.
This goes beyond just work items themselves to include things like agile boards or projects.
And then down here at the bottom.
We can open this up outside of this menu.
This is just a consistent thing across most of these menu items that we'll see the ability to open this
up in its own page.
Under recent we have starred these are our starred items.
Basically this is Jiras bookmarks or favorite system.
We'll learn more about this using this throughout this course.
But in a nutshell, anytime we star work items across Jira, it's going to show up here for quick access.
Moving on to the apps, there's a lot of functionality that you can add on to JIRA through apps that
you purchase in the Atlassian marketplace, with purchase being the key word there, because a lot of
these apps are paid add ons that extend the capability of JIRA.
Now, as I mentioned in the last section, this course is specifically designed in a way that I'm not
going to be using a bunch of paid apps on top of Jira.
That's why you don't really see anything in the sidebar here, because I don't have any apps installed
in my JIRA instance.
We're just focused on Jira itself today.
But if you want to extend your jurors capabilities with paid apps, you can do that here.
Moving along, a lot of these features will make a lot more sense as we start digging deeper into them
throughout this course.
For example, in our last section, we learned what Jira means when it talks about projects.
So here we can see a list of all the different projects that we've opened recently, which we can see.
Again, there's really nothing that we've opened up recently.
This is a brand new account, but we can also view all the projects that we have access to in here as
well.
Next we have our filters.
Now in a nut shell, filters are saved searches and like projects.
You can star your favorite filter for quick access here.
If we want to add this to start, it will show up in the starred section up there.
And there are some really cool things that we can do with filters that we'll be looking at in a lot
more depth later on in this course.
Just know that this is where you can find those filters.
Let me collapse this here.
And next we have our dashboards.
As the name implies, dashboards can be a quick way to access things that you're working on or build
charts that can help with reporting.
We can see the default dashboard here just has some simple things that are set up by the JIRA administrator.
And again, if you're the administrator we can look at where to do that on the back end once we're logged
in with administrative permissions.
But we can see now that we've opened this up it shows up in the recent dashboards.
Right.
So that's an example of how this sidebar will update with the recent things that you've been to.
Just as a quick way of being able to get back there very fast.
Moving along with the sidebar over here next to the dashboards, we have teams.
And this is another of those terms that Jira is using, probably a little bit differently than you might
think, because it has nothing to do with Microsoft Teams or anything like that.
And we'll dig into teams later on in this course.
But for now, a great way to think of teams is kind of like the for you page for a team of people so
a team can have a customized reference links, a stream of activity for any of the users on the team,
and so on.
If that sounds too abstract, I would encourage you to hop in here on your side and your JIRA instance
and see if your organization has any teams already set up.
If they don't, well, don't worry, we'll dig into teams later on in more depth in this course, but
I just want to highlight this ability to invite people into JIRA because in my experience, this is
something that a lot of new users expect to be a way to add someone that they want into JIRA.
And it is, but only sort of.
Now, if you're not a JIRA administrator, because right now we're not logged in as JIRA administrator,
when you try to add someone here, it's going to send a request to your JIRA administrator.
It's not going to add them right away.
The reason for that is because Atlassian builds your company based on how many users there are actively
using Atlassian's apps.
So adding people to Jira will change that bill.
And so that's why it's something that your JIRA administrator will need to do.
So when we're logged in as a user, it's just going to send a notification to the JIRA administrator
saying, hey, I'd like to add this person in.
Can you do that please?
And they would have to accept that.
And we'll see the other side of that when we're logged in as JIRA administrator.
And then last but certainly not least, over here in the sidebar, we have the goals and we can see
this is going to take us outside of JIRA.
Now if you recall in the last section, JIRA is just one of the apps created by the company called Atlassian.
So goals actually live outside of Jira in a place called Atlassian home, and they're a way of tracking,
well, goals across Jira and other Atlassian apps.
Now, even though we're focused on Jira today, we're actually going to look at these a little bit later
to get a better understanding of how we can use them along with JIRA.
The last thing I'm going to do, I'm actually going to come in here and let's switch this back to the
default light theme, just so we'll use that throughout this course.
Okay.
So in the past couple of videos we've gotten a good overview of the user interface here in JIRA.
And along with that we've gotten a very high level view of the core features that we'll be learning
about in this course.
If you haven't yet, I would encourage you to take some time between videos to click around in here,
just to start getting accustomed to where things are at and how the interface changes when you click
around.
And if you do get lost, as we've already learned, you can always get back to Jiras homepage by clicking
on your company's logo up here in the top left.
Now, perhaps the most fundamental of these features are JIRA projects.
So in the next video, we'll take some time to get an understanding of the two types of projects inside
JIRA team managed and company managed projects.
See you there!

--- Understanding the Differences Between Team and Company-Managed Projects ---

Inside of JIRA.
There are two types of projects that we can use.
Which project we'll use can depend heavily on our permissions as well as what we need to get done.
So in this video, let's take a couple minutes to get an understanding of both team managed projects
and company managed projects.
And let's start by learning about team managed projects.
In a nutshell, team managed projects are completely self-contained projects using what JIRA calls project
scope entities.
For team managed project, I like to use the example of a book.
A book by itself can be self-contained.
Everything you need to know is inside that single book.
But of course there are times where you need more than a single book.
Maybe there are volumes of books or an entire library of books.
And that's where the metaphor expands into a company managed project where things are shared across
everything.
Now, if you're using an older version of JIRA, you might find projects by a different name.
So when Jira launched for the first time back in 2002, there was really only one kind of project,
and it was simply called projects.
And that's how it was for 16 years, until in 2018, the team in Atlassian introduced a whole new concept
and projects that they called next gen projects.
But next gen projects didn't replace projects, so what they did was rename projects to classic projects
so that you would know that those were the same kind of projects that had been in Jira since 2002.
Now I'm not associated with Atlassian, but just from my own experience.
I saw a lot of confusion with next gen projects and classic projects, so I'm sure the team in Atlassian
did as well.
And then in 2021, they decided to rename the two project types.
Next gen projects became team managed projects, and classic projects became company managed projects.
The meaning behind these newer names makes a lot of sense once you realize the key differences between
the two types of projects.
So let's go back to that definition from a moment ago.
Team managed projects are self-contained, using what JIRA calls project scope entities.
This means anyone on your team can create and manage a team managed project, hence the name.
And by anyone I mean anyone.
Since the scope of team managed projects are contained within the project itself.
You don't have to have any special permissions at all.
Well, there is an exception to that though.
What I just mentioned is the default setting in JIRA.
It is worth pointing out that your JIRA administrator can change who can create and manage team managed
projects.
So if your organization doesn't let you do that, then you'd want to reach out to your JIRA administrator.
And speaking of the global JIRA administrator, as you might expect, the other type of project the
company managed projects.
Those have to be created and managed by your overall global JIRA administrator.
That's what JIRA means by being managed by the company overall, as opposed to being managed by anyone
on your team.
The reason for this centers around project scope entities.
Now, entities are things like the statuses, fields, work types, and so on.
So let's start with work types.
Just to visualize what I mean by this from a more practical perspective.
And let's say we have multiple projects in our JIRA instance.
And just to keep this example simple, let's say we have a couple team managed projects and a couple
company managed projects.
As for the entities, let's use work types because we've used those before in an example using sticky
notes.
So in one of our company managed projects, let's say we create some custom work types called incidents
and another one called refactor.
And then in our team managed projects we add the work types called design and prototype.
These specific work types themselves don't really matter what they're called, but the work types are
one of the entities in JIRA.
And now that we have a couple of them in each project when it comes to the company managed project,
we can share those entities, those work types from one company managed project to any other company
managed project for team managed projects.
Though as we learned earlier, because they have project scope entities, that means that the work types
can only live in this one team managed project.
Now, that's not to say we can't create another work type that just so happens to have the same name,
but it's not the same work type as far as JIRA is concerned.
And that really comes into play when we start adding multiple entities to this example.
So let's shift over to fields because as we also learned earlier in this course, fields live on work
items inside of JIRA.
Now if we go back to our examples here, let's say in one of our team managed projects, one of our
fields is to track the OS.
But as it goes, sometimes with acronyms, sometimes people who aren't accustomed to them don't always
know what they mean.
So maybe our users don't know what OS stands for.
So to help clarify this, we can just go in and rename the OS field to be called Operating System.
Watch what happens when we do that in a team managed project.
Because the entity only lives in that project, it will only update this one field in that one project,
because as far as JIRA is concerned, they are actually unique fields that just so happen to be called
the same thing until of course, we rename one of them.
That's what JIRA means by Project Scope entities.
Each entity in a team managed project only lives within that project.
So if we wanted to make changes across multiple team managed projects, we would have to go into each
one to make those changes.
On the other hand, for a company managed project, those fields actually live outside of the project
themselves in a central administration area.
The work that lives inside of the project is then just referencing those entities.
So if we change the name of one of those fields for a company managed project, it will propagate to
every company managed project that is using that field.
The catch to this, of course, is that we have to have the proper permissions to make those configuration
changes inside of JIRA, and that's why we have to have global permissions to create and manage company
managed projects.
And that's also why we do not have to have global permissions to create and manage team managed projects,
because everything is self-contained.
So as with most things, there are pros and cons to everything, but in my experience, I've found that
because team managed projects are self-contained with project scope entities, that makes them really
great for short term projects, because by default anyone can create and maintain them without having
to reach out to a JIRA administrator to make those changes for you.
And you can also do all of that without worrying about a change that you make in your team managed project
affecting anyone else's projects in JIRA either.
But of course, we don't always want to do that, so that's why company managed projects are great for
long term projects, because your JIRA administrator can use their shared entities to ensure continuity
across those company managed projects, making sure that the work types and the fields are consistent
like we saw in our examples in this video.
And if you are JIRA administrator, it's a lot faster to make changes across multiple company managed
projects instead of going to into each one individually to make changes each and every time.
Whew!
Okay, so I know I threw a lot at you in this video, but now that we have a better understanding of
the key differences between the two types of projects in JIRA, it makes a lot more sense why we're
starting with team managed projects, because they don't require global JIRA administrative permissions.
So let's hop back into JIRA in our next video and learn how to create a team managed project.

--- Creating a Team-Managed Project ---

In this video we'll learn how to create a team managed project.
Unfortunately, this process is very simple to do.
All we need to do is to come over to the sidebar to the projects and click on this plus icon to create
a new project, and this will take us to the project templates.
Now, the key thing to keep in mind with these templates is that by default, we're seeing all the templates
regardless of our version of JIRA.
So for example, if we come into the software development we can see we have the Kanban and Scrum templates.
This goes back to what we learned in the last section is our team working with a Kanban workflow or
a scrum workflow.
And here we can find those templates.
But that's not all that we can see.
If we look we can also find one that's for Jira Premium.
Now again, as I mentioned in the Terms and Concepts section, I am using a standard license to JIRA
for this course, so I don't have access to the premium features inside of JIRA for this course.
Or if we go over to the service management templates, we can see this is actually using JIRA Service
Management, which again is a different version of JIRA than what I'm using in this course.
And the reason I want to point this out is because if we come into one of these templates, we can see
this is basically going to kickstart a trial for a different version of JIRA.
Which is why if I actually click on this, basically what Jira does on the back end, because I'm logged
in as a user instead of a global JIRA administrator who has billing access as a user.
If we try that, it's just going to send the access request to your JIRA administrator who does have
billing access.
Okay, so with that key thing about the billing in mind, let's go ahead and create a team managed project.
And I'm going to come in and let's use the Kanban template.
So click on that.
You can see instead of try this template It's use the template.
And then in here we have the ability to choose between a team managed project or a company managed project.
Now we've already looked at the differences between team and company managed project, which explains
why the company managed project is grayed out because we're not logged in as a global JIRA administrator,
so we will look at that later on in this course once we are logged in as one.
But as an end user, let's go ahead and select the team managed project.
Now we just need to give this a name.
So let's call this our website project and give this a key.
So the project key is how JIRA tracks the URLs for all of the work items that live in this project.
So we'll see this in action a little bit more later on in this course as we're starting to create work
items.
But what's important to know here is that this ends up in the URLs themselves.
The project key has to be unique across all the JIRA projects in our installation.
So if we try to use something that already exists.
So for example, I we've looked at this, I already have this key being used in another project.
JIRA is going to give us this little warning.
So we just need to make sure that it is a unique key.
Next we need to choose the access level.
So there's basically three levels of access here.
Either we can have it be private which basically locks down the project.
So you have to invite people to it manually.
It is also worth pointing out that a global JIRA administrator can always see all the projects, even
if you set it as private.
Or we can choose limited, which lets anyone in our JIRA installation see the project, but they can't
make changes to the project, can't edit them because it's all read only.
Or we could set this to open, which basically makes the project open to everyone inside our JIRA installation
so they can create and edit work items.
So for our purposes today, we'll go with an open project so anyone can create and edit work items.
And in my experience, unless you have a specific need to lock things down more, it ends up being a
lot easier to keep it open.
And just like anything we've looked at in this video, we can always make changes to it later on if
we need to.
But for now, let's go ahead and click on next and that will create our project.
And at this point we can actually connect another Atlassian app if we want to do that.
So we can see we have that ability.
I'm going to go ahead and skip through this.
And that will create our project for us.
And there we go.
And now that we have our new team managed project created it's pretty empty in here.
So let's move on to our next video where we'll learn some tips and tricks for creating work items in
JIRA.

--- Creating Work in Team-Managed Projects ---

In our last video, we looked at creating a team managed project.
In this video, we'll continue right along to learn how to create work items in our new project.
So there are a couple ways that we can create new work items.
And they've all basically do the same thing, but we get different options depending on which approach
we take.
So I'm sure you've already seen the create right here on the board in the to do column.
That's probably the fastest way if we're wanting to create a lot of work items really fast directly
on the board, so we could come in and just type out what we want to design the home page layouts,
and then hit enter to actually add the task or create the work item.
Maybe add in some more just to have some to see what's happening here.
Create and style the navigation.
Now right away we can see something in action that I talked about in just our last video when we created
the project.
Remember when I was talking about the project key and how I mentioned that's how JIRA tracks the work?
Well, we can see that these work items have created are given a sequential project key based on what
we set up in our last video.
So this is Web1 Web2 Web3, and then all the work items that we create from here on out will just be
in sequential order web for web five, web six, and so on and so forth into pretty much infinity.
You know, however many thousands of work items you end up creating.
Now, something else that you might notice here is this little icon.
This means that the work items are unassigned.
Now we could click on this in order to assign this to someone.
If we wanted to assign this to Dan, we can do that right away in the on the board itself.
Of course, we can assign the work to someone right here, but the key reason I want to point this out
is because creating work items this way will always assign that work item to whoever the project default
is.
And by default in JIRA, because you saw when we created this project in the last video, we didn't
really set that up by default.
Jira will leave it to create work unassigned so not assigned to anybody.
Now we'll look at where we can change that default in JIRA once we get into the project settings.
But for right now, let's open up one of these work items to see exactly what Jira did with the rest
of the work items data when it was created.
Now, as you can see, using this method to create work items is really all we have to do is to type
in the summary field that's right here on the work item.
That's why we're able to create them so fast because there's nothing else in here.
All of this is completely empty.
All of these other fields are completely empty.
But that leads into another way to create work items here in JIRA that we can enter in some of these
fields at the time of creation.
So let me close out of this dialogue here and come up to the create button.
And the keyboard shortcut for this is C for create.
So you can just tap on C on your keyboard or click on create.
And that will pop open the create screen.
Now depending on the settings on your side, this might not be in full screen mode like this.
If this is down here on the corner, that's possible as well.
We can change between those settings.
This is a lot like kind of composing an email in Gmail or something like that, where you can make the
screen larger or smaller.
You can minimize if you want to pull it back up.
But in here we have all the fields that we can fill out for our work while we're creating our work item.
And the key thing in this screen is this dividing line right here.
So these things above the dividing line are the project and the work type.
Now if you recall from the last section, we learned that the fields live on work items and work items
live in projects.
So this is basically a hierarchy from top to bottom of what we already learned about.
Let me show you what I mean.
If we were to come into this project, this automatically selected the web because that's the project
we were in when we clicked on the create button.
But if we change this to a different project, maybe this other one that I already have set up, you
can see the types of work are different in this project than in the web project.
So JIRA is looking at the project first and then determining what types of work are there, and then
it takes it to the next level because we can see the fields on this type, right.
So we have things like labels and parent and due date.
But if I switch this to a different work type, maybe my one of my custom work types that I've created.
We have different.
We have a release date, we have a category.
We have some different fields on this work type living inside of this project.
Now, as I mentioned, that is a custom work type.
This episode is a custom work type that I've created.
The release dates, things like that are custom fields too, and we'll learn how to create and customize
the work types and custom fields and all of that as we're getting to the back end settings later on
in this course.
But for the purposes of creating a work item, the key thing to keep in mind is that almost everything
on this screen can change underneath this dividing line, depending on which project and work type you
pick, all the fields below are going to change, and then from there, the rest of this is pretty much
straightforward, just filling out the information that we need.
So if we choose the website, we can choose a task.
Let's maybe add in our summary build widgets for sidebars and footers, something like that.
But we can come in here and start to fill out more information if we want to.
Maybe we don't want the the assignee to be automatic because the assignee is on a or the automatic assignee
I should say, is unassigned, as we just saw when we created them directly on the board.
So if we wanted to assign this to somebody right away we could do that.
And then we can click on create.
And we'll see that automatically right away.
This is assigned to Dan.
So we have done that at the point of creation.
Now if we hop back to create.
So I'm going to hit C on the keyboard to hop back to the create screen.
You'll notice that the summary has this red asterisk which means that it's required.
Again pretty pretty straightforward.
But that also means we cannot create a work item if we don't have the summary field filled out.
So if I were to try to create this, it's going to say nope, that's required.
The reason for that is because of what we just saw with the work on the board.
The summary is used on the board and inside of JIRA.
There are some fields that are always required no matter what.
You can't change the fact that it's required, because it relies on those to display things in different
views.
And the summary is really one of the keys of those.
But if we come back into create, we can see another required field is the reporter.
But when it comes to reporter we can see this is automatically filled out.
But with the user that we are currently logged in as.
So we're logged in as Kieran, which means that Kieran is the reporter, the one that's created that.
So typically in a general day to day really the summary is going to be the key field that you always
have to make sure to fill out.
Now there are two tips for creating work items on the screen faster that I want to point out before
we wrap up this video.
And the first is up here in the top right.
This three little dots where we can configure the fields.
So if we come in here and then come to configure fields it says all fields.
Now just to clarify what JIRA means here is not all fields that exist within JIRA.
What this is showing you are all the fields that are configured to show on this work type.
Basically all the fields that your JIRA administrator has said go with this work type.
So that means your JIRA administrator can control which fields are here.
And of course if you are the JIRA administrator, we'll look at that later on when we're logged in as
the JIRA administrator on the back end.
But I want to point that out as a user, because if there are other fields that you feel you need,
you can talk to your JIRA administrator about that.
And the other thing that's really cool about this configuring the fields is we can speed up our own
workflow by coming in here and choosing custom fields to determine which fields we want to see on our
work items for our user account.
So when we're logged in as this user, as Kieran, anytime Kieran creates this new work item, the work
item, then these are the fields that are going to be shown only the parent, the description.
Let's maybe add in the assignee, but all of these others are left unchecked.
So now if we come back here our create screen has significantly less fields.
And this is really helpful to just help us focus a little bit more.
If we don't need all of these fields, it's just cluttering up the screen.
So we can clean that up.
And it's just a faster, more efficient way of working.
And it's worth pointing out, as I mentioned, this is just for our user account.
This is just for Kieran.
So it's not affecting anyone else on our team to hide those fields.
Now the last little tip to help speed up creating work items in JIRA is this little checkbox at the
bottom left and I think often gets overlooked.
Just create another.
When we have this checked.
This create work screen won't disappear when we click create like it did a moment ago when we created
our first work item in this screen.
And not only that, but JIRA will also remember some of the fields to help speed up our workflow in
multiple ways.
So let's say we're creating a bunch of work items here.
Let's type in a summary, optimize site images.
And then come in here and assign this to me.
So assign it to Kieran.
When I click on create watch what happens.
The screen is not going to go away and both the assignee is going to be.
When I click on create watch what's going to happen.
The assignee is going to stay as current.
When I click on create, the screen doesn't go away.
Of course, we still need to enter in a new summary, but the assignee remains the same.
Something like that.
And we can see how many have been created down here at the bottom with this.
Create another check.
And of course at any time we can uncheck that if we want.
Maybe add in our last one.
Compatibility.
There we go.
Click on create.
And now because this is unchecked it's going to close out of the screen when it's created.
And all of those have been created right here and assigned to Kirin.
Okay.
Now let's move on to our next video, where we'll take a moment to get a better sense of how to navigate
around our team managed project.
See you there.

--- Navigating Team-Managed Projects ---

In this video, we'll take just a couple moments to get a better idea of where things are located in
team managed projects, because they might have changed a bit with Jiras interface update.
So let's start at the top like we did a few videos ago.
We have the same top menu.
We've already learned about this top menu before, but this is a great opportunity to see how it stays
the same no matter where we're at in JIRA.
So a good way to think of this top menu is that's how we navigate JIRA globally.
And then once we're inside a project, we'll see this tab style menu that we'll use to navigate inside
our team managed project.
Now with your version of Jira looks different.
Maybe all of the items over here on the left hand side.
So this is what Jiras interface used to look like up until May of 2025.
But if you notice, the features are still basically the same.
We have the summary, the timeline, the agile board, and so on.
So that's what I mean by the core features still being the same, even if the look of the interface
has changed.
And speaking of the features, we'll be learning about these features in more depth throughout this
course.
But for right now, the key thing to keep in mind is that these features live inside this team managed
project.
So, for example, the default landing page for our team managed project is the Agile Board, which
we learned a little bit about our agile boards in the last section.
And this board lives inside the team managed project.
And by default JIRA will give you these three columns in your team managed project board.
And basically the workflow for an agile board is always going to be taking work items from left to right,
even when we learn how to add new columns later on in this course, we'll always want the columns to
go from left to right, and by default, Jira will give you these three columns to do in progress and
done in the team managed project.
And basically the workflow for an agile board is always going to be taking the work item from left to
right until eventually it's done.
Even when we learn how to customize this more and add columns later on in this course, we'll want to
have those columns go in this workflow from left to right.
The reason for that is because how columns work in agile methodology, and as I've talked about before,
JIRA just assumes you're using an agile workflow.
So when we start working on something, we take the task from in-progress and then to getting done,
and then we come back to Jira to update that work by dragging it to the done column like we just saw.
In a nutshell, that is the core workflow that you'll be doing inside JIRA.
And if it seems simple, well, that's kind of the point.
Project management is about effectively getting stuff done, not spending all your time trying to figure
out how to track things that you need to get done.
But of course, things can get a lot more complex in our workflow depending on what it is that we need
to get done.
And speaking of which, one of the first things that we'll probably want to do when our team manage
project is to start customizing it to fit our needs.
So let's look at how we can do that in our next video.

--- Customizing Team-Managed Projects ---

Just a few videos ago, we learned that one of the primary differences between company managed and team
managed projects is the fact that by default, Jira lets anyone create a team managed project, and
that's why we were able to create one.
Even though I'm logged in as a user without global JIRA administrative permissions.
Now when we create a team managed project, JIRA is going to give us administrative permissions to that
team managed project that we just created.
So with those project administrative permissions, let's take a look at some of the most common changes
that we'll probably want to make, starting with customizing our project navigation itself.
So when we are the project administrator, we can reorganize these tabs however we want.
And not only can we reorganize the tabs, but we can also rename them so we can move this all the way.
We could rename this if we want to website board or whatever we want to call it.
And you also notice right now and by default it is set as the default.
But let's say, you know, maybe we want the timeline to be the default, right?
So now when we go to this project, we're going to be taken to the timeline.
So if I click on the website now, it's going to take us to the timeline instead of the board.
Clicking on the project.
And that's going to take us then to the board whatever we set as the default.
Now we'll be looking at the timeline and these features in more depth later on.
But I do want to point out that we can't make every single navigation tab a default.
So say the forms here.
If we click on this, we can rename it.
But we can't set this as a default.
Now this is another thing that I wouldn't be surprised if that changes in the future, but for now,
only a few of these views can be set as the default.
So I'm going to keep my project navigation pretty much the same as it is by default.
So let's rename this back to board, just so that it's easier to keep my settings at a default.
But I would encourage you on your side to clean up your project, and maybe even hide some of these
items.
If you're not going to be using them, you can remove them and then come back in and bring them back
anytime if you want to.
Right.
And we can move it back to where it was.
Move it to the left.
There we go.
Just click and drag.
So again, even though I'm keeping my project navigation pretty much at Jerry's default for this course,
I would encourage you to take the time to clean up your project and help you work more efficiently.
This is similar to hiding some of the fields when you create a new work item.
If you're not going to be using them a lot, then you can hide what you don't need to get rid of some
of that clutter.
You can do the same sort of thing with your project navigation.
The key difference with the project navigation is that's for anyone that uses this project, as opposed
to the fields on the issue.
That's just hiding them for your user account.
Moving along for this video, though, another popular way of customizing team managed projects is to
change the work types in the fields in our projects.
So let's start by adding a new work type.
So let's come over to the project settings.
Click on the three dots, go to Project Settings and then in the left side menu.
If we come into our work types, we can see the three default work types that were added.
So let's maybe add in a new one.
Let's add in a work type.
We can use a suggested one.
Just add in the bug.
And now if we come in and create a new work item, now in the work type we have the bug work type that
we can do.
But what's really cool about this is we can take this to the next level, because we can add any sort
of custom work type that we want.
So let's say we want to add in a new work type and let's create a work type.
Let's call this maybe a new feature.
Sure we can change the icon with some that are kind of preset here, or we can even come in and I'll
include this in the resources.
We've got a custom one that I've created.
Go ahead and add that.
Now that's our icon for this new feature work type that we've added into our project.
So now if we come in and create a new work item, we have the new feature that has the default set of
fields attached to it.
And as you can imagine, we can come in here and now start to customize the fields that we want on our
new work type.
Now, just like we saw with the work type itself, there are some suggestions there.
When we added in the bug work type and there's some suggested fields here.
But what's really cool is we can actually create our own.
So let's say and let's say it would be really cool to have a dropdown that tells us the location on
the site where this new feature is going to be located, where we want it to be located.
So maybe the options are header, body, footer.
We can set one of these as the default for this field.
And now if we save our changes and come back to create a new work item, switch this to the new feature.
And where's our field?
Well, if you remember in our last video, we actually made some customization to this in our fields
so that these are the only three that are available or visible I should say.
So we want to check the location on website, the new field, make sure that that's applied.
And now we will find this located with the body as the default option.
But we can change that however we want.
Really nice way of being able to add in these features.
And as you've probably already noticed, we can come in here and click and drag.
So maybe we want this to be located beneath the description.
When we create our new work item, make sure we have the correct work type to new feature.
And now we can see, oh, you know what?
I actually forgot to save the changes.
There we go.
So there's something important to keep in mind.
Make sure you save the changes because it does not save automatically.
So create our new work type.
And now we can see it's located beneath the description.
So I'd encourage you to come in here and create any sort of fields that for the things that you want
to track in your project.
Great.
Now you probably noticed that there's a lot more project settings in here that we jumped past to do
our most popular customization, but let's take a few minutes to see what other settings we can customize
in our team managed project, and we'll do that in our next video.

--- Overview of Team-Managed Project Settings ---

In this video, we'll get an overview of the project settings for our team managed project.
So let's hop back into the sidebar.
Open this up.
And because this is recent, we'll find the project settings right here.
But if you haven't accessed it recently, you can always come into view all projects, find the project
and then come in and go to the project settings.
Now these details are some of the settings that we picked when we created the project.
So things like the project name, the project key, we've talked about that.
But down here we'll see.
The default assignee is set to unassigned.
And that's why the work items that we created a couple videos ago were unassigned by default.
If we want to change that, the only option that we can do here is to change this to the project lead.
So the project lead is currently set to Kieran.
So we can set that here if we want it to be set to somebody else.
Because we're logged in as Kieran when we created the project.
JIRA by default will set Kieran as the project lead.
So now anytime new work items are created by default, they will be set to Kieran.
And that's basically all the project lead is.
It's really just a chance to be the point of contact on the team for any work items, to make sure that
nothing slips through the cracks.
Moving along to some of the other key project settings in here, we can also adjust the permissions
for our project.
So if we come into access, we can tell Jira who has access to the project.
Remember when we created the project, we set it to open.
If we want to change that, we have the same three options that we already talked about when we created
this project.
We can change that if we want to.
In my case, I'm going to leave it at open for this project.
Just know you can come in here and change that at any time.
Or we can add in specific people to the project.
So maybe we want to add.
Dan into the project.
Add them in.
There we go.
And now Dan has been added as a member.
Or we can change them to also be an administrator of this project as well.
And then of course at any time we can also come in and remove that person from the project.
So Dan will no longer have access as an administrator, but because the overall project access is set
to open, anybody who has access to this JIRA installation, which includes Dan, will also be able
to access this.
So still be able to view and create and edit the issues.
Just won't be able to administer the project on the back end.
Next we have our notification settings.
So in here this is who gets notified when a work item is created updated assigned.
You can get notified.
You can hook in your slack.
If you have that, you can get notified through email however you want.
You can change this.
Now this is helpful because I've actually changed this.
If we want to maybe change this to be something like this is our website project so we can have a custom
email address, which means when the email notifications go out, then you can use the filters in your
email to know which project it comes from.
And I've used this before in the past.
It's a helpful way to be able to customize based on the project, what emails are coming in, and just
be able to organize those in your email a little bit better.
Or if our users are having trouble with notifications from JIRA, if we find any errors that JIRA comes
across, we can find those in this project email audit now.
Right now, there's nothing in there because this is a new project and we haven't had any errors.
But if there are some errors, like maybe it came back as block or it bounced or something like that,
then we'll start to see that in here to help the users who have access to our project if they're not
getting those notifications, of course, especially when it comes to email, in my experience, 99%
of the time If somebody is not getting that notification, it's probably going to spam or something
like that, depending on how their filters are set up, which is why it's helpful to come in and change
some of these notification settings, maybe changing the email, um, or coming in and changing some
of the events.
So who's going to get those notifications when they come through when a work item is created, the assignee,
the reporter and anybody who is watching that work item will get that notification.
So I'd really encourage you to hop in here and see what sort of notifications you want set up.
But moving along with the project settings, we have automation.
Now.
Automation is a lot like if this then that if if you're familiar with that, we'll look at a lot of
these in a lot more depth once we get into company managed project, because these are also in there
too.
And automation deserves its own video.
Uh, but if we move on, we have fields and work types.
We've already looked at the work types to determine what work types exist, and then we've created a
custom field already.
But these are some of the fields that are on all of the work items in this project.
So we can see this one that we created already.
It looks like it's in there duplicate because I created it already.
But we have this in here.
Or we can come in and delete this field if we want.
We have an extra one in there.
And then let's just double check and make sure that okay.
So yeah.
So I deleted the one that was actually on there.
There we go.
So we've got that added.
And now it all still works.
So we've got that added in double check when we create the new feature.
We have the.
Oh I need to configure the fields.
That's right.
Because that's hidden.
There we go.
Apply that.
And now we've got the location on the website field in our work type.
So that's a good example of troubleshooting.
Some of this go through that process when you're making these changes to make sure that your users,
anybody using this team managed project that you've created, can actually access the things that you
want.
So that little thing that I just walked through, there was a great example of how when you're coming
in here and making changes, if you create a team managed project and you have other users from your
organization in there, it's always a good idea to run through that process.
So you notice I went in, created it to see what the create screen looks like, make sure that the field
is actually on there so that the users who are actually going in there and using this on a day to day
basis will actually have the changes and the customizations that you've set up.
Moving along under the work types, we have the features.
So in here we can turn on or off some of the features in this project.
So maybe we don't want the summary.
So we can turn this feature off.
And when we go back into the project now and view the project, we don't have the summary in our project
navigation anymore.
But of course, we can always come back in to our features and turn this back on at any time.
When we created our project using the template, we used a Kanban template for this team managed project.
Basically, what Jira is doing on the back end is turning on or off some of these features based on
the template that we're using.
For example, if we picked a scrum template, well, as we learned, Scrum Agile uses a backlog and
it uses sprints.
So if we had picked a scrum template these would be on by default.
But they are not turned on by default because we use Kanban template and we could turn them on if we
want to.
And then basically what we're doing at this point is turning this into a scrum template.
So again we'll be learning more about these features throughout this course.
But I just want to point out if you don't see something on your side, you can come in here and start
to customize this inside of the team managed project.
Object.
Moving along.
In this team managed project settings, we have the agile board settings to come in and change things
like the columns and statuses.
If we want to start customizing some of this now, this is a great time to point out that a lot of these
features in the team managed project are the same as the features in company managed projects.
So if you want to learn how to configure your board, how to customize the board, we'll actually be
looking at that in the company managed project in the JIRA for managers section, because we'll need
elevated permissions to do that in a company managed project.
But when it comes to the board itself, the team managed board is basically the same with a few slight
differences.
Like in a company managed project, we can have multiple agile boards per project as opposed to a team
managed project.
There's only one.
So we're going to talk about some of those differences a lot more.
Once we get to the JIRA for managers section and start customizing the board.
And then here at the bottom of our project settings, we can integrate JIRA in with other tools that
we're using.
For example, here you can see that I am using confluence.
I have a confluence license as well, so that's linked here.
Maybe our designers are using Figma, so we want quick access to that built directly into Jira.
We can request this.
Again these are things that can often add to your Atlassian bill.
And so because we are logged in as a user without access to the billing settings that our global JIRA
administrator has, just like when we talked about creating the template and it says try this template
and it's basically going to send a request to the JIRA administrator.
That's basically what this is doing as well, because this is another area that is going to require
global JIRA administrative permissions, because it can affect our billing.
And then last but certainly not least, we can link this into apps.
Maybe we want to actually link this into Microsoft Teams or Slack if we want to get notifications in
that, that can be hooked in there.
Now, as I mentioned in our last section, I'm not going to be using any third party apps for this course.
We're really just focused on JIRA today.
But of course on your side, you'll probably want to hook in any other tools that you're using in your
organization.
So I'd encourage you to take advantage of these if you're using Microsoft Teams or Slack.
And just like these features, we'll be going through a lot of these things later on when we're looking
at company managed projects, because these are a lot of the same features that we have in company managed
projects.
But the key thing to keep in mind what we learned at the start of this section, since we're using a
team managed project with Project Scope entities, everything in here lives in this project only.
For example, that new feature work type that we created doesn't live anywhere.
But in this project.
Hopefully the gears are starting to turn for how you can customize your own team managed projects,
and I'd encourage you to take some time between videos now to play around with some of these features.
And when you're ready, we'll move on to the next video where we'll unravel some of the features using
a company managed project here in Jira.

--- Unraveling the Features in Company-Managed Projects ---

So far in this section, we've been working with a team managed project.
In this video, we'll shift gears by looking at company managed projects.
Now right away, you'll notice one major difference in how this course is structured.
Because we're not going to start by creating a company managed project.
The reason for that is because of the differences between team manage and company managed projects that
we learned about earlier.
So if we were to go in and try to create a company managed project, as we can see here, because we're
not logged in as a JIRA administrator, we cannot create company managed projects in this section.
Of course, we will look at how to create them later in this course.
In the administrative side when we log in as a JIRA administrator.
But in this video, let's take a few minutes to get familiar with using company managed projects, because
generally speaking, most of the projects that we'll be using inside of Jira will probably be company
managed projects that have already been set up by our JIRA administrator.
So let's hop into the projects because I already have a company managed project created.
As I mentioned in an earlier video.
But just to reiterate, now that we're opening up this project, this is my own JIRA installation that
I use for my podcast called Based on a True Story.
And that's why the project has this name.
So let's get familiar with how this is laid out, starting with these tabs here along the top.
Now this is another area where we can tell the permissions that we're logged in as.
Because if you remember from when we were working with the team managed project, we could see three
little dots, or we could even click and drag to rearrange these tabs or customize the navigation in
our project.
But because we're logged in as a user in a company managed project, we can't do that.
Of course, that's important to point out because these can be customized by JIRA administrator.
So if you see some different options on your side than what I have here, that could be why.
Maybe your administrator has gone in and customized this.
I just want to point this out in case you're seeing the navigation ordered differently or named differently
than gyrus default that I'm using in this course.
So let's start with the summary here on the left.
And I'm actually going to collapse the sidebar just to give us a little bit more room to be able to
see.
So the summary is a great landing page to give us, well, a summary of what's going on in our project.
And don't worry, even though we'll be moving fast in this video to get an overview of these features
in our company managed project, we'll circle back around to go into more depth in individual videos.
So after watching this video, if you want to focus on just 1 or 2 of these features, you can hop into
those.
So next to the summary is the timeline.
Now, if you're using an older version of JIRA this might be called the roadmap.
But now it's the timeline.
And it's really just a high level way of being able to see the epics in our project and their statuses,
so we can see all of the work items tied to those epics.
Next to the timeline, the backlog might be a term that you're familiar with.
We talked about a few times throughout this course because the backlog is another agile term that's
relating to the agile board.
So like we were learning about earlier in this course about sprint meetings, where our team decides
what work is going to get done in the next sprint.
That work is usually going to come from the backlog.
Then throughout the sprint, as new things get added or come up, they get added to the backlog.
Since the team has already decided what work is going to happen for the duration of the sprint.
And then we have our agile board itself.
Now in this case, this is a Kanban board.
So this is going to be the primary place that we'll be working day to day on the agile board.
And that's why this is the default place that JIRA is going to take us.
Now, I do want to point out that if we're working with a scrum board, Obviously this wouldn't say
Kanban board here at the top.
And on top of that, you might have noticed that we briefly looked at a board in team managed project,
but that didn't really give us the option of different boards.
That is a difference between team manage and company managed projects.
So we'll be looking at both Kanban and Scrum Agile boards in a little more depth.
In our next few videos.
Next to the Kanban board, we have the calendar.
Now, the key thing to keep in mind with this view is it's only going to show us work items that have
dates associated with them, like a due date, for example.
And we'll look at how all of that works in its own dedicated video to the calendar view.
Moving along for this video next to the calendar, we have our reports, and in here we can find reports
for things like how long work has been open, maybe are in progress, or the burndown charts.
If we're running sprints on a scrum board, which you're not going to see here, we're not going to
see any scrum or sprint related reports because I'm on a Kanban board, so that's really the key thing
to keep in mind with these reports is that the type of board will determine the type of reports that
you'll see next to the reports.
We have the list, and a great way to think of the list view is really kind of exactly what it sounds
like, a list view of all the work items in this project.
Now, what's really cool about this view is how powerful it is.
We can build rules and formulas, kind of like an Excel spreadsheet.
And of course, we'll look at that when we focus on the list view in its own dedicated video.
Next to the list view, we have our forms.
Now, once again, these are pretty straightforward.
It's a pretty straightforward concept to send forms.
If you've ever used a service like Google Forms or SurveyMonkey.
Basically, you can create a form to send out to people.
They fill out the form, and then on the back end, the data that they fill out gets added to a work
item in JIRA when it comes to the forms in JIRA though.
The key thing to keep in mind here has to do with permissions.
So we can see here that forms can only be created or managed by users with project administrator permissions.
So because we're in a company managed project and we're a user and we don't have project administrator
permissions, we're going to look at this again.
Once we log in with project administrator permissions in the manager section.
Next we have goals.
And this is another way of being able to track our work.
But with goals it's really tracking the work in a way that's trying to organize it by the end result
or the goal.
So instead of getting work done just to get work done with goals, we can see which work is aligned
with our objectives or our goals to make sure that the work that we're getting done is the right work.
Now, the key thing to keep in mind with goals is that they're not actually built into JIRA.
They actually live outside of JIRA as an external way of tracking our work across multiple Atlassian
apps.
One of them happens to be JIRA, so we'll look at goals in its own dedicated video to see how they can
relate to JIRA.
And then last but certainly not least, we have our all work view.
This view has been around in JIRA since the beginning, although it does look a lot different now than
it did way back when Jira first launched in 2002.
For example, as we just learned about the terminology change with JIRA, changing what used to be issues
to work items, well, now this is the work view instead of the issue view.
Basically, the all work view is the default place to find all of our work in the project.
If you can't find it in one of these other views in the project navigation, then chances are you're
going to find it in the all work view.
A great example I like to use is the calendar view, because that view only shows us the work that has
dates associated with it, and that's great for you to see.
But not all work is going to have a date associated with it, and all of that work will show up in the
all work view, regardless of whether or not there's a date associated with it.
As you can imagine, we'll be using this view a lot throughout this course.
So that's the end of all the different views for our work in a JIRA project.
The rest of these under more, if you have a larger screen resolution, you might start to see them
without having it be compressed.
The rest of these are features that don't really show us our work items in different ways, but there
are actually different features.
For example, components are a way to group together work items that are related.
So let's say our website has a checkout system.
We can create that as a component in JIRA.
And then all the bugs, tasks, stories or any work items that we want to be easier to find when we
link those to a component.
And there's actually a couple of different types of components in JIRA, so it's worth breaking components
out into its own video that we can learn more about those.
And then as you can see, there's the development view here.
The development view is a relatively new view as of this recording.
So you might not have this on your side if you're using an older version of JIRA.
But we can think of this kind of like a summary view for the work that's linked to a code repository
like GitHub or Atlassian's own app, Bitbucket.
And we don't really see a lot of information right here, because if we go into the code menu item,
you can see there's really nothing that's been hooked up to this JIRA installation.
Of course we can do that if we want, but this is a great reminder of something that we've learned about
in the Terms and Concepts section.
When we learn that JIRA is roots are in software development, and as I mentioned a moment ago, this
project isn't really for tracking software development.
And then on top of that, those are tools that are outside the scope of this course.
Since we're really focused on how Jira works, and not so much how to use code repositories like GitHub
or Bitbucket.
Now, if that workflow is something you'd like to see in a future course, be sure to let me know.
Moving along, there's a couple more menu items in here.
There are releases.
Releases are very similar to components that we learned about a moment ago, except they're designed
to group together.
Well, kind of like the released versions.
Again, with JIRA background being in software development, if we think of the maybe all the stories,
the bugs and work items released in version 2.0 of our website or app, they can all be grouped together
to track them a lot more easily.
And then using that together with components, you can start to see how it can track a lot of work faster.
For example, if we want to see the bugs fixed in the checkout system of our website in version 2.0,
well, if we're tracking the work linked to versions or the releases and the work tracked to components,
it's not hard to see where those start to overlap.
And again, we'll be looking at these features later on in their own dedicated videos.
But moving along in this video we also have our archive work items.
Archiving is a pretty straightforward feature.
Instead of deleting work items, we can archive them and then find them in here.
The key thing to keep in mind here is that archiving work items can only be done with a premium or enterprise
license to JIRA.
Now, if you recall, we learned in the last section that I'm using a standard license for this course,
so archiving isn't something that we'll be covering in this course, but if you'd like to see it covered
or some of those more premium features covered in a future course, let me know.
And then last but certainly not least, we have pages.
Now again, this is outside the scope of this course because this links to confluence, which is a separate
app.
Confluence is a wiki documentation tool just like Bitbucket.
It.
Confluence is another app offered by Atlassian, so we're not going to be covering confluence in this
course because we're focused on Jira.
But if you'd like to learn how to use any of these other tools in future courses, be sure to let me
know.
Or if you want to learn more about the the links between Confluence and Jira and some of these Atlassian
apps, again, let me know.
But we're just focused on what's inside of JIRA in this course.
Woo!
Okay, so I know we covered a lot and as you can see, we still have a ton to cover in these different
features.
So let's start by going back to a view that might look familiar to you.
Because we used a team managed project before.
And those have an agile board.
But now that we're in a company managed project so it's similar but also a little different.
And since we're going to be spending a ton of time inside of JIRA here on the agile board, let's take
a break here.
And then when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll learn more about using a Kanban
Agile board.

--- Understanding Kanban Agile Boards ---

In this video, we'll walk through the layout of a Kanban agile board.
Now, before we begin, I just have a quick programming note.
We're going to be breaking down Jiras agile boards in the next three videos.
And depending on which workflow you're using at your organization, feel free to hop around to whatever
you need to.
We're going to be looking at the Kanban Agile board in this video, and then we'll look at the Scrum
Agile board in the next video.
And then in case you're using both, or maybe you're still trying to decide which one is best for your
organization after we're familiar with both the Kanban and Scrum board separately, we're going to look
at them side by side to highlight some of the differences, so you'll know when it's best to use one
over the other.
Okay, so we have a ton to cover.
Let's get started by heading over to Kanban board.
And I'm going to collapse the sidebar just so we can see this a little bit bigger on our screen.
Now we've already got an overview of the project navigation tabs along the top here.
So really this area is the area of focus for this video, because when somebody refers to the agile
board in JIRA, this is what they're talking about.
And more specifically this is a Kanban agile board.
But let's actually hop above this navigation for a moment, because up at the top left we have a breadcrumb
which shows us the path for where this agile board lives inside of JIRA.
So you can see under all projects the based on a true story project.
That's the name of the project that this agile board lives in.
And this right here is the name of this particular Kanban agile board.
This name is set by your project or JIRA administrator or board administrator.
We'll look at how to do that customization when we're actually logged in as a manager in the next section,
but beneath the project navigation tabs that we've already looked at.
We have a bunch of different ways of filtering our work.
So the search bar here is pretty straightforward.
But the key thing to keep in mind with this search is that this one only filters the work items on this
agile board.
So if I were to type in maybe add, you can see this work item gets filtered out right.
So it's not searching across all of JIRA.
If we want to do that the global search is up here at the top like we learned about earlier in this
section.
Another key thing to keep in mind with this search here is it's only filtering the summary field, which
is basically the name of our work items.
So that's the most common thing that we'll be searching for.
But it's also worth keeping in mind because if we're trying to search for maybe one of the statuses,
like maybe we want to search for ready to record If I could type it properly to record.
You can see nothing showing up because it's searching for the summary field on the work items.
It's not searching for statuses or columns or anything like that.
But that leads into some other ways to filter our work.
For example, these icons right here are the user profile pictures of anyone who has work assigned to
them on this agile board.
So we can filter by all of the work assigned to Dan, which is all of these here on the board, but
it also is going to show us the user we're currently logged in as.
So we're logged in as Kieran right here.
And we can see right now Kieran doesn't have any work items associated on this board assigned to him
on this board.
But because we're logged in as Kieran, we can see his profile picture here as well as any unassigned
work items, which again, there's none that are showing up on this board because there's nothing unassigned
on this board.
but Jira is still going to show us both the unassigned and who we're currently logged in as.
And then anybody else.
You're going to start to see these profile pictures add in as more work items are assigned to more people
on your team.
Another way of filtering is by type, but this time it's filtering by the type of work.
Again, this is not across all of the work inside JIRA.
This is just for the work items on this board.
So if we want to filter by just the add type, this is the only work item that shows up because it's
the add work type.
And that is a custom work type that I've created for this board.
And we're going to look at how to create custom work types for creative or for company managed projects
later on in this course once we're logged in as the JIRA administrator.
And that brings up a great point, because if you're wondering how to control what items are on the
board, well, again, that's something that we need elevated permissions to do.
So that's something we're going to look at when we're logged in as a manager.
How to control what work items actually show up on this board.
But then last but certainly not least next to the type we have our quick filters.
Now, if you ever wish that there was another way to filter work on the agile board, that's not these
default ways.
The quick filters come into play there, because these are customizable filters that your manager or
JIRA administrator can set up for you.
So if you find that you're using these a lot, or if you find that maybe there are some that you would
really like to use again, reach out to your manager or JIRA administrator and they can set those up
for you.
And if you are the manager or administrator, we'll look at that later on in this course as well as
a user.
The key thing to keep in mind here is that we can toggle this on and off, so we don't even have to
use this dropdown.
If we want to start to filter very, very quickly.
We can do that using our quick filters right here.
And then at any time, once there are filters applied, we can clear those filters to get back to the
agile board as it is by default.
I'm going to go ahead and turn off the quick filter.
So we're back to our default setting here.
Over here on the right side we have a few more icons.
And let's actually start up here because this allows us to go full screen.
The keyboard shortcut for this is Z as in zebra.
And the key thing to keep in mind with this here is it's not going full screen on our entire monitor.
It's just going full screen inside of the browser window.
But this can just be a visual display that makes it easier to eliminate distractions.
Right?
I'm going to go ahead and go out of full screen here.
And then next to that we have sharing.
Now sharing is another straightforward feature.
The key thing to keep in mind here goes back to the permissions again because we could type in anybody's
email address.
But they're going to be asked to log into their Atlassian account to get access to this JIRA instance
and this project inside of this JIRA instance.
And if they don't have permissions to do any of that, well, then they're not going to be able to see
the work items that you tried to share with them that live inside this project, in this JIRA instance.
And then under the project navigation tabs, we have a few more ways of organizing the work on our board,
but in a little bit different than just filtering it.
For example, we can group watch what happens over here on the left hand side if I group by assignee.
Right.
So in this particular case, because we just looked at assignee by filtering, we can see that all of
these work items are assigned to Dan.
There's none that are assigned to anybody else.
But if we were to come in and maybe assign this to Kieran, now we can see, oh, look, now we can
just group them by who they're assigned to.
So it's just a nice little visual way.
In agile terminology, these are called swim lanes.
And we'll look at how we can customize these, uh, further later on once we're logged in with elevated
permissions.
But we have some quick grouping built in here next to the grouping.
We have our board insights and you can see what these entail.
Basically there's some simple reports that JIRA calls insights.
And they're just trying to call attention to any work that we need to focus on.
Uh, for example, we can see some of these work items have been flagged for some reason.
So we might want to open this up to see why it's been flagged and what needs to be done on it.
Or we can filter by ones that are due so we don't see any.
There are currently no work items due in the next two weeks, which again goes back to the due date
field having a date associated with it.
So think of these like some very simple reports.
And these are not the only reports we'll find in Jira.
We're going to focus on reports in its own dedicated video, but these insights are just handy to have
on our Kanban agile board right here.
Next to that, we can customize our view of the board by toggling on and off features that we want to
see.
And as we can expect, this is tied to our user account.
I want to point that out just for the purposes of this course.
In case you're noticing some of these settings change.
I'll be logging in with different accounts throughout this course.
Logged in as a user, a manager as an administrator with elevated and different permissions.
So those accounts will have different view settings than what we're changing right now with this account.
So if we want to maybe change the work type.
So watch what happens to these little icons here.
That's the work type.
It's going to disappear.
Maybe we don't want to see the key again.
Remember that's the project key with a sequential number.
So we can see the project key.
And then there's been 524 work items that were created with this one here or before this one I should
say so again, JIRA is giving us the ability to customize our view to hide things that we don't really
need to see, just to declutter our interface a little bit.
I'm going to set this back to the default, but I encourage you to come in here and customize this however
you want.
And then in the three little dots we have two options here for us.
Now this is a cool little feature tucked away on the board.
If you remember, we learned about the concept of a stand up in the Terms and Concepts section.
This is actually an agile concept that we can utilize right here on the board.
And this is something that we'll look at in more depth when we get to doing the day to day workflow
on our board.
But then that leads us right into the release, because you can see this is grayed out.
We actually need elevated permissions to do a release.
So that's why we're going to be looking at the stand up and releases and all of that when we're logged
in with elevated permissions, with the managers permissions.
Later on in this course.
So let's shift over to the sidebar here for a moment.
Let's pop this open because with the Kanban board here we can come in and star this board.
Right.
So we don't have permissions to do the board settings.
When we log in here you can see pretty much everything is grayed out.
That's because we're logged in as a user and we need elevated permissions.
So we'll come back once we are logged in as an administrator to see those settings.
But as a user in here we can add this to our starred, which as you can imagine, is going to pull it
up right here as just a really quick way to access this board alongside any other work or projects or
things that we might have starred inside of Jira.
And then finally, if we hide the sidebar again, we have the board itself.
So all of this area here is the agile board itself.
This is all also pretty straightforward when it comes to functionality.
You take work and then you drag it, click and drag from one column to another.
And then as we do that, the work status gets updated automatically.
I can show you what that means real quick.
So click on this.
We can see the status right here is writing.
And then as soon as I take this and drag it over here, we can see that status changes to recording.
And in here the status has changed to recording as well.
And again we can come in here and change the view settings.
So if we don't maybe we don't want to see the status on the actual card itself.
We could do that.
So we can see how these things start to come together.
I'm going to move this back.
Usually you don't want to move back, but I was just showing you how to do that in this course.
I actually haven't got that work item ready to record yet, so I'm going to move it back so I don't
lose that status.
Okay.
So in this video we learned all about the Kanban agile board and how it's laid out here in Jiras company
managed projects.
Now, the last thing I want you to keep in mind is that even if you're not a manager, I would highly
recommend to go check out the day to day workflow video in the managers section.
We're doing that there because we need elevated permissions for things like releases.
That we saw was grayed out for us a moment ago, but as a user, it's still helpful to see how you can
take all of this information that we've learned in this video and use it in our day to day workflow.
And as we learned during the little programming note at the beginning of this video, our next video
is going to be covering a Scrum agile board.
So it's very similar to this one covering the Kanban agile board with some slight differences.
So if you're not using a scrum workflow, then you can save some time by skipping right to the comparison
video.
But if you are using a scrum workflow, then I'll see you in the next video.

--- Understanding Scrum Agile Boards ---

If you watched the last video, you'll know that we looked at a Kanban Agile board.
In this video, we'll walk through a similar process with a Scrum Agile board.
But as we get into this, we'll see that there are a lot of similarities so we can move a little bit
faster this time around.
So let's get started with the top left here where we have the breadcrumb, because we've visited it
before with this account.
We can see it on the For You page.
Under the recent projects we can see company managed projects can actually have multiple boards.
So we'll see this little drop down here and we can hop into our board.
Or if we don't have that in our recent projects, we can always get to it in the sidebar coming into
the project and then opening up the project that it lives in and finding our board.
And then I'm going to close out of the sidebar just so that we have a little bit more room to see the
board.
So now that we're here on our scrum Agile board, let's get started with the top left where we have
this breadcrumb again.
This is the same as what we saw in the Kanban board.
We have all projects, the project that this board lives in.
And then the name of the board and the name of this board can be customized.
But because we're logged in as a user without administrative permissions, if we come into the board
settings, we can see we can't actually customize it as a user.
So this is something that a manager or administrator will have to do with elevated permissions.
And again we're going to be looking at that once we get into the manager section.
And we have project permissions to do that.
But we can hop back very quickly using the breadcrumb here.
Underneath the board name we have our project navigation, which we've already looked at in a previous
video.
So we can skip over that for now, but we'll see a bunch of different ways of filtering our work items
on the board underneath that.
And again, these are basically the same as what we saw in the Kanban board.
Except, of course, these are filtering on the scrum board, not on the Kanban board, and also not
globally across JIRA.
So, for example, if we wanted to search this board, let's maybe search for everything that says recording.
You can see it's only going to search the summary of the work items on this board.
It's not searching globally.
If we want to search globally in JIRA, that is this search bar up here at the very top next to the
board search, we can filter by assignee.
So these icons will update automatically based on the people who have work items assigned to them on
the board.
And as we learned in the last video, the Kanban video, it's also going to show the current user,
regardless of whether or not there are work items assigned, as well as any unassigned work items which
we can see.
Obviously, there's no unassigned work items on this board at the time.
But this brings up a great point, because we can actually click on multiples because these filters
are additive.
So let me show you a great example of this.
Let's come in here and let's actually assign something to Kieran.
So let's come in.
Click on the assignee here.
Let's assign it to Kieran.
Now we have this assigned right.
So we can filter.
But we could say okay let's come in and say let's filter everything by newsletter.
There we go.
So we're filtering by the text in the summary field.
But now we only want to see the newsletter items that are assigned to Kieran to assign to me.
So we can really dial this down to see only the things we want to see.
Or maybe we want to see all of them that are assigned to both Kieran and Dan.
So we can see all of these items showing up on the board using the additive filter.
It includes newsletter in the summary and it's assigned to two Kieran or Dan.
And then of course, at any time we can clear our filters and that's going to clear everything out and
take us back to the default scrum board settings next to the assignees.
We have another option for filtering that we're not going to find on the Kanban board.
So this is one of the differences because on the Kanban board we don't have sprints.
And as we learned in the Terms and Concepts section, epics are an agile term that are typically found
with sprints in a scrum workflow.
And that's why we have this filter here.
So we can filter any work on the board based on the epic that they're linked to.
And we can see the epic name here on the actual work items themselves.
So if I filter, it's going to filter out anything that is not associated with those epics.
But of course, epics are not the only type of work we have in JIRA.
We have other work types as well.
So maybe we have our Are stories we want to filter by those.
These are just the stories on the board, the stories and the tasks.
Right?
So we have a task.
We have story and task.
Again these are additive.
We can really build out our filter.
However we want to see only the things that are really relevant to us at this particular time.
So maybe we want to only filter by Kieran and maybe the tasks.
Okay, no tasks for Kieran.
There's a story for Kieran, so this would be the next work item that Kieran would want to work on in
this sprint.
So you can really start to see how you can use these filters together and add them together to see the
work that is relevant for you at any given time.
And of course, just like we learned on the Kanban board, we have the quick filters that we can either
show or hide.
And you'll notice these quick filters are different because these quick filters are set up by the administrator.
I should say they're different than the Kanban board quick filters, because they're tied to this particular
board.
So we're going to look at how we can customize the quick filters.
If you're a manager or administrator, set that up.
We'll look at when we have the elevated permissions to be able to customize this board.
But for right now, if we show it over to the right side of the board, we have some other icons.
So up here at the top these two are the same as the Kanban board.
For example this first icon is going to go full screen.
It's just a nice way of being able to eliminate distractions.
The key thing to keep in mind with this is the same with Kanban board.
It's not full screen on your computer, it's full screen inside of the browser window.
And then we have the ability to share.
So again, just like with the Kanban board, when we share they have to have whoever we're sharing with
has to have permissions to see this board inside of JIRA.
So if I share this with somebody outside of the organization and they don't have access to our JIRA
instance, don't have access to the board, then they're not going to be able to see what you tried
to share with them.
And then dropping down beneath the project navigation, we have a few items that we're not going to
find on the Kanban board, for example, the ability to complete the sprint and then the ability to
see the sprint details.
Now, obviously, the active sprint that I have going on my side will be different than the sprint in
your organization.
But completing the sprint and modifying these details are things that your manager or JIRA administrator
will have to do because it requires elevated permissions to do so.
So we'll look at that in the manager section when we have elevated permissions.
But if you want to see the back end of how all of that works and how the details are set up and how
the sprints are completed and started, we'll look at that when we look at a typical sprint workflow
because that includes starting and completing sprints and filling in these sprint details as well.
But as a user, it's just a nice way of being able to see any details that have been set up by your
manager or administrator.
After these two buttons here, we're getting back to some of the features that we learned about on the
Kanban board, starting with grouping.
So we can group by maybe the epic.
So filter by anything in this epic or items that are not in the epic.
So you can see it's a little bit different than filtering by the epic, because if we filter by the
epic, then we're only going to see the work items that are inside of this epic that we have going on,
as opposed to all of the work items on our board, and then giving what agile refers to as a horizontal
swimlane and grouping all of those together.
And we have some other grouping that we can do as well, you know, group by assignee.
So we can see the difference here, Very similar to what we saw on the Kanban agile board, except we're
just doing it on our Scrum Agile board instead.
Next to our grouping, we have something else that's similar to Kanban board.
We have our insights, which are basically some simple reports.
Of course, since we're on a scrum board using sprints, the reports that we see on the insights are
different than on the Kanban board.
So we can see here in the insights we're seeing our sprint health and the progress toward our goals.
So very similar things to what we saw on the Kanban board, like seeing what work items are flagged.
There's currently no work items that are flagged on this board, but we can see our overall sprint progress.
So what's done in progress?
Not started based on the status and where they are on the board.
Just some really quick reports.
But again, just like with the Kanban agile board, this is not the only place that we can see reports
on this board.
We also have reports in our project navigation.
So we're going to look at that in another video once we can dedicate some time to that.
Moving along on our scrum board though, next to the board insights we have the view settings.
And again this is just like with Kanban board.
We can customize the view of our board by toggling on and off the features we want to see.
So maybe we want to hide the epic.
So watch what happens to the epic name on all of our work items.
We can hide that.
We can maybe hide if we want to hide the work item and the work type.
We can hide that just to clear up the board a little bit.
And this is for our user.
So this is our user account settings.
What is being viewed.
It's not really changing anything.
It's just changing the display of what we're seeing on here.
And then the key thing to keep in mind with this is because it's just the display.
It's not really changing that.
So again, if we turn off the epic here, even though that's not displayed, we can still filter by
the epic.
So maybe that's just a different way of how we want to view our board.
Or maybe instead we want to group by the epic.
So we're not changing what work items are associated with the epics at all.
When we come in here and change the settings, all we're doing is changing what we can see the view
settings on this board itself for the user that we're currently logged in as, not for anybody else
on our team, just for ourselves.
So that is something I would encourage you to do.
Come into the view settings and turn off anything that you might not need to see, just to clean things
up for yourself as you're working on your scrum board.
And then over here we have the three dots menu.
That was we have the same stand up feature that's built into a scrum board, just like Kanban board
has.
If you remember, we learned about this concept of a stand up in the Terms and Concepts section.
It's an agile concept, not a JIRA concept, but we can utilize it here on the board in JIRA, and we'll
actually be using the stand up once we get beyond just looking at the features like we are now, and
get into the day to day workflow on the board, and then we have the ability to edit the sprint.
So again, if you remember from the sprint details, we can see the name of the sprint is June 2025.
If we edit this, let's maybe change it to June 2026 just to show a difference.
Update that and then the sprint details.
We can see that that's been changed.
And then I'm going to go ahead and change this back.
Usually this is something that your manager or administrator will set up for you.
You don't have to come in here and and do that.
But we'll look at that.
The setup process of the sprint.
Once we actually go through the process in the manager section, the whole workflow of creating a sprint
where those details are set up to begin with, and then completing the sprint and that whole process.
And then finally, of course, we have the board itself, and we've already seen how the filters can
affect the work that we're seeing on the board.
But what about how to control what work items we see on here to begin with?
Well, that's something that the board administrator will have to set up.
So that's something that we'll see when we get into configuring the board as a manager.
Okay.
So I know throughout this video I mentioned a few times some of the things that we'll find on this scrum
board that weren't really on the Kanban board, but we didn't really pull up the Kanban board.
So tell you what, let's move on to our next video.
Now, where we're going to do a more side by side comparison of the differences between the scrum and
the Kanban agile boards here in Jira.
See you there.

--- Comparing Kanban and Scrum Boards ---

In the last couple of videos, we looked at the Kanban and then the scrum board on their own.
In this video, we'll take a couple moments to get familiar with how Kanban boards and scrum boards
are different from each other.
To do this, we'll be using brand new boards without any work on it, just so we can focus on the different
features.
These are the default boards as they're created in JIRA.
With only one change, I renamed the boards just to make it easier to tell which board we're looking
at, the Kanban or the scrum board.
So let's start with how the boards look in the project navigation, because this is another example
of how JIRA just expects you to understand some agile terminology.
If you remember from the last section, when we learned about the differences between Kanban and Scrum
workflows in agile methodology, well, the key difference has to do with something called sprints.
And that's why, as we can see here in Jiras project navigation, the title of the scrum board says
active sprint.
Instead of just saying scrum board.
Now, if you are using an older version of JIRA, you might also notice that there's no backlog on the
Kanban board, and that is because of something else that we learned about in the Terms and Concepts
section.
But in a nutshell, because the scrum workflow has sprints.
Any work that's not in an active sprint will show up on the backlog.
On the other hand, from an agile methodology perspective, a Kanban workflow doesn't have sprints,
so a Kanban board in agile typically does not have a backlog.
However, Jira lets you add a backlog to Kanban boards that used to be something that your manager or
administrator had to enable, which is why I wanted to point that out in case you're not seeing it on
your site.
Now you'll notice over here in JIRA sidebar, what we're seeing is the board name and not the board
type.
As we learned, that's also something that your JIRA administrator can customize.
So that means the primary way that you can tell which type of agile board is here based on the project
navigation, the Kanban board title is obvious.
So that means if you see active sprints, you'll know that it's a scrum board.
Now let's shift to the differences on the board itself.
As you can see, the breadcrumb and project name are the same.
Although I do want to quickly reiterate what I mentioned at the start of this video because I changed
the board names to be titled Scrum Board and Kanban Board, just so it would be easier to see which
is which.
But as far as JIRA is concerned, on the back end, really what it's doing is showing the board name
in the same place on both boards.
And then over here on the left side, we can see both boards have the same filters that we already learned
about.
Now, even though the project navigation says active sprints for the scrum board, by default, this
board does not actually have an active sprint going yet.
And most of the time you probably will have an active sprint going on your scrum boards in JIRA.
So here's what it looks like when there actually is an active sprint.
You'll notice how we get a few more options available on our scrum board with the sprint going.
For example, there's a sprint button.
Now, if you're using an older version of JIRA, you might see a little countdown with a number of days
left on your active sprint.
We can find that now in the sprint details, but of course we won't see any of that on a Kanban board
because, well, they don't have sprints.
And that leads us to the last big difference, which we can see over here, where we can complete the
sprint on a scrum board, but on a Kanban board we can create a new release.
Now, both of those things can often require elevated permissions to do so.
So we're going to learn about them when we're logged in as a manager in the next section.
And when we run through the example sprint on a scrum board, as well as the day to day workflow on
a Kanban board for releases.
Okay, so now that we're more familiar with the different types of boards here in JIRA, now is a great
chance to take some time and look at which board your organization is using to get more familiar with
it.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll learn how we can go about creating work
items inside JIRA.

--- Adding Work to Company-Managed Projects ---

In this video, we'll learn how to create new work items in a company managed project.
This is something we're going to be doing a lot inside of JIRA, and fortunately it's really easy to
do.
All we need to do is to come up to the top here and look at the create button.
Now the keyboard shortcut for that is C as in create, and we can tap that anywhere inside of JIRA to
create a new work item.
The one key thing to keep in mind is something that I get asked a lot actually is pretty simple because
JIRA is a web app.
You have to make sure that the browser is in focus.
And I know that's it's simple, but it happens a lot.
There's times where people will ask me why it's not working, and it turns out they have JIRA open,
but they're working on something else and another browser window or another monitor.
JIRA isn't in focus and I just want to point that out.
So when we open this up, that's going to open the create screen.
Now the basics of filling in information is pretty straightforward.
But let's understand how this screen works.
So this divider line right here everything underneath this divider line are the fields on the work type.
Everything above this divider line controls what fields you see, because the fields on the work type
that we select are controlled by the project.
Think of this kind of like a hierarchy.
The project controls the work types that are available.
And then the work type that we select controls the fields underneath it.
So let me show you what I mean.
Right now we're in the Lefebvre project because when I clicked on the create button, I was inside of
the Lefebvre project, but I could switch this.
So we have task and epic as work types in the Lefebvre project.
If I switch this to our other company managed project, now we have a whole bunch of other work types.
Some of these are custom work types, like.
This episode is a custom work type that I've created in my JIRA instance, and we'll look at how to
create custom work types once we get into the JIRA administrator section.
But with this custom work type, I also have some custom fields like primary category or the release
date.
Since this is for my podcast, as I've talked about before, I have these different fields to be able
to track all of my work, these custom fields.
But these fields aren't going to show up on, say, the story work type, because the work that's being
tracked with a story work type is different than with the epic work type.
You can start to see how all of this starts to come together.
And when we're creating our work type, it's important to make sure we have the correct project and
then the correct work type in order to see the correct fields that we want to fill out.
Now, before we get to actually creating this, the only other thing I want to point out is if you don't
see a field down here, it's possible in the configuration either we have hide unused fields.
So we can see here is going to try to automatically clear up some of these fields that maybe it thinks
we're not using.
Or we can customize this in the configure fields.
So we can come in and choose only the fields that we have that we want to use.
So maybe we don't want to use a lot of these fields.
We'll keep the description release dates.
Apply that and then we can see all of a sudden there's not nearly as many fields to fill out.
And I'd encourage you to do that just like the view settings on the board and some of these customizations
that JIRA has, we can clear off or declutter a lot of the things that we don't need to see, but they're
always there in case we do need to change them.
But we don't always need to see them on a day to day workflow.
If that's not relevant to the work that we're doing in particular.
And then, as you might imagine, because we configured this on this particular work type, it has those
fields.
But if I switch over here to a different project and a different work type, those fields aren't always
going to be the same.
However, as you can see, there's still some overlap.
JIRA is trying to figure out what are these fields that you've already set, and try to automatically
hide some of the overlapping fields, things like due date and priority that are on both of those work
types, the task work type, and the episode work type that we just looked at.
And so basically, if at any time you don't see the field on here, come in here, configure the field,
see if it's if it's hidden, if you still don't see it in here, that's something that your JIRA administrator
can control.
What fields are associated with what work types.
And that's what will show up in this screen.
So that would then be reaching out to your JIRA administrator.
And if you are the JIRA administrator we'll look at that in the administrator section.
How to control what fields are on different work types okay, so with all of that said, once we have
the fields that we need, uh, really the process is pretty straightforward.
We need to make sure to fill out the summary.
The summary is a required field and that is something that's not customizable inside of JIRA.
This summary is a required field because it's shown in places like the board itself.
This is the summary.
And so for JIRA to function, it needs to have at least a summary.
Now depending on your JIRA administrator they might have set up some other required fields.
So When we click on create, this is going to allow us to create because there's no other required fields
in here.
But if you pop up with a required field, that again would be reaching out to your JIRA administrator
that they would then be able to customize, or we'll look at that later on in this course as well.
Now that this has been created, we can see, okay, this is created, but it's not visible yet because
it's not in our sprint.
We have an active sprint going.
This goes back to the agile workflow by default.
It's going to create new work in our backlog.
So now we can come in and we can filter this by.
Maybe that name.
There we go.
And we can see this work item that we've created right here.
But for now, once we've created a work here in JIRA, the work item itself will have its own layout.
So let's move on to our next video, where we'll get familiar with how all of that is laid out.

--- Viewing and Editing Work Items ---

In our last video, we created a new work item.
In this video, we'll learn how our work items are laid out here in JIRA.
So this is where we left off and our work item that we created is in the sidebar.
And it's kind of hard to see everything in here with the screen resolution that I have for this recording.
So let's click on this link here.
And that will take us to the work item in its own tab in the browser.
Now this is where you will be sent.
If you're if you're given a link to work inside of JIRA, this is the default view of a work item inside
of JIRA.
And just like we saw with the board, we have our breadcrumb up here.
So this is telling us where this work item lives.
It lives inside of the left project, underneath all projects inside of JIRA.
Now you'll notice the ability to add a parent.
If you remember from earlier videos in terms and concepts, we learned about the hierarchical relationship
between epics and other types of work.
So this particular work item that we just created in the last video is not linked to an epic.
If it was, we would see an epic link here.
Or we can come in here and actually link it to an epic if we want to do that.
And now it's living kind of underneath this epic.
It's linked to this epic inside of the project.
And then at any time, if we want to unlink that, we can just click on this little icon, unlink that
parent.
And then again, it's no longer linked to that epic.
So a quick way of being able to link and unlink epics to our work items.
And then the same is true for our work item itself.
So we can click on this to get to the work item.
We can click on this to copy the link to share this with somebody else to get to the work item.
Assuming, of course, that they have permissions to view our JIRA installation and this project.
And then we can also come in here to change the work type.
Again, the key thing to keep in mind here is that the work types in this project are controlled by
your JIRA administrator.
So we can change this work to any other work type very, very quickly just using this little icon right
here.
And then below this breadcrumb we have the summary field.
So this is what we set up when we created the work item.
This is pretty straightforward.
We can change this very easily if we wanted to do that.
Just change that summary and it's done.
And then we can attach things to our work items.
Let's say we wanted to attach a subtask to this so we could add another one.
So domain is available.
There's a subtask that might be the first thing to do right.
And then what's really cool is if we view this watch this breadcrumb up here we can see now this breadcrumb
of the subtask is the task or the work item that we had created.
So you can see this hierarchical level between the epics and then the standard work types, and then
subtasks as their own little special subtask to our work item.
But that's not the only thing we can add here.
We can also add an attachment, a pretty straightforward.
We can link another work item that we want to be associated with this one we could add a web link.
Maybe there's a website outside of JIRA that we want to add for quick access.
You know, since this is for a website we could just add in.
Something like that.
Add in that link and we can see that web link gets added and associated to this work item.
Just helping us be able to get all the information that we need very, very quickly in this work item
without ever having to really leave JIRA.
And then we can always add in, uh, other Atlassian apps outside of JIRA.
So if we have existing confluence content or a loom video, these are other Atlassian products.
Confluence and loom are other Atlassian apps.
But because those require separate licenses outside of Jira, that is outside the scope of this course.
If you want to see more courses about those, about confluence, about loom, by all means let me know.
But a lot of the rest of this work item is pretty straightforward.
We have the description so we can fill out the description to be whatever we want for this.
And then down below some of these items that we've added, the subtasks and the web links, we have
our activity.
So by default this is set to the comments which is pretty straightforward.
We have comments that any of our team who have access to this work item can leave, can have communications
back and forth about the progress of this, but we also have some activity here that we probably won't
use very often.
But I want to point it out because there is definitely times where I've used it in the past and it is
easy to overlook.
So we have the history.
The history tracks any updates to this work item, so we can see some of these updates that we've made.
So we added the s to the end of domain.
So this is what it was originally.
We added this link right.
And who did that.
So if the link is broken or if something's not working you can know who to reach out to and be like,
oh hey, was this actually what you intended to add?
So you can kind of think of the history as like the changelog for this work item, but not that's not
to be confused with the work log.
The work log is different.
Now there are some extra apps that you can get third party apps to help track time directly inside of
Jira, but by default doesn't really have its own time tracking built in.
This work log is as close as you're going to get, where we can manually add time to the work and then
log what we did in that time.
So let's say maybe, you know, we spent maybe two hours and then we can add looking for the domain
whatever.
And then that work log gets added.
And then at any time anybody can see the progress that's being made on this work item.
And not only that, but being able to see specifically the different increments of work.
Now, in my experience, most of the teams that I've consulted for don't really use this to this sort
of granular level, but there are a few who have.
So I wanted to point it out in case it's helpful to you.
Now, if we shift to the right side of the work items layout, some of these icons might look familiar
because they're similar to ones that we've seen before, like the ability to share, except instead
of sharing the board like we saw before, this is sharing this particular work item.
Or you can see this says issue.
This is because of the terminology change.
These used to be called issues inside of JIRA.
Now they're work items.
So I imagine this will change in the future.
But there's a couple new icons that we haven't looked at yet like this eye right here you can see this
is selected.
So the reason for that is because we're logged in as Kieran who created this.
So by default we are watching any work items that we create.
Watching a work item will give you notifications when it's updated, but you can change that here if
you want.
If you don't want to get notifications for this work item as it's updated after you've created it,
you don't have to watch it.
You can un watch that item, or we can come in here and start watching it at any time to then get notifications
for it again.
Next to the eye icon, we have the ability to vote.
So voting in JIRA is something that's helpful if we want to search for all the work that's been voted
on, and then we can sort that.
And I have worked at teams who have used this as a way of kind of sorting new feature requests, but
of course, not every team uses it, and whether or not you vote on work items depends on having access
to JIRA.
So it's not really something that is a public voting mechanism as much as voting internally within your
organization.
And then we already talked about share.
And then we have the three dots in here.
And there's a lot of other things that we can do with this work item.
But we talk about we already talked about logging work, so we can add it in here instead of coming
down to the work log to see all of the work here, we can just log work directly using the three dots.
We can add a flag.
So basically what this does is this adds a visual flag to the work item itself.
We saw some flagged items on the board when we were looking at the agile board.
And then we could saw how the board insights can filter by those.
So we can very quickly see work items that have been flagged.
And then of course, at any time we can come in here and remove that flag.
Now, in my experience, a good workflow for flagging items would be to come in and add a comment at
the same time to explain why the flag was removed or added or removed.
But again, these are the kind of things where the tools are inside of JIRA and then how your team uses
them in the workflow that you use them really is what works best for your organization.
Some of these other options that we have, we can connect a slack channel.
This is pretty straightforward.
It lets us share these work items in slack to see updates automatically if we want, but that's outside
the scope of JIRA itself.
Since that's getting into slack now.
In here, you might see on your side the ability to convert to a subtask.
I do not, because we already created a subtask under here, and once you have a subtask, then you
can't convert the task to another subtask, because then this subtask that we created doesn't have anywhere
to live.
So the next item that we have in this menu then is to move or clone and moving or cloning is pretty
straightforward as we learned work items live in a project.
So this work item lives in the project.
If we wanted to move this to another project, we could do that by either moving or cloning.
The key thing to keep in mind here is with permissions, you have to have permission to create new work
items in the project that you're moving or cloning too, as well as if you're moving them, deleting
the work in this project.
So on the back end, what basically JIRA is doing is if you move this, say if we move this to a different
project, it will clone this work item, create a new copy in the new project, and then delete it from
this project that it exists in.
If we clone, it doesn't delete in the project if we move it to another project.
So we need those different permissions set up, which by default we would have.
But again that's something that the JIRA administrator can control.
So if you're having trouble with Move or clone, reach out to your JIRA administrator to make sure that
the projects are set up correctly, and then we can open up the command palette.
We can see the keyboard shortcut for this, which in my opinion is the fastest way to get there.
I would highly recommend getting used to this keyboard shortcut command K if you're on Mac, or Control
K if you're on windows, and this is for anything pretty much across JIRA.
So if we wanted to assign issues, we could assign the work item to somebody in particular.
So let's say we wanted to assign this to Dan.
We could do that very, very quickly.
Or we could come in.
I'm going to hit command K to pop this back up, and we can assign it back to me, which in this case,
since I'm logged in as Kieran, that's assigning it to Kieran.
So some really, really quick ways that once we start to learn some of these keyboard shortcuts, we
can move inside of JIRA very, very quickly.
And then the rest of these are pretty straightforward.
We can print the work item, we can export it to a word document or an XML file.
And then if we want to kick start the built in JIRA tour or go to Jira help, we can do that directly
from the actions menu here.
Now before we wrap up this video, there are a few more things I want to point out as far as how the
work items are laid out.
Uh, we have automation.
Anytime you see this icon in JIRA, it's referring to automation, which is important enough to have
its own dedicated video.
But for the purposes of this video, just know that this is where we can control the automation for
this particular work item.
And then at the bottom, we can see a log of all of the automations that have run again associated with
this particular work item.
So once we have automation set up and we look at that in its own video, we'll see how that process
works a little bit better.
But just know when you're working inside of JIRA, if there is automation you can see a log of that
directly here.
Kind of like the work log that's manually done.
We have the automated work log right here.
And then sandwiched between these controls and the automation, we have a lot of the other fields for
our work items.
So some of these other fields here and these are pretty straightforward as far as the fields are concerned.
The key thing that I want to point out here is that we can pin some of these.
So maybe we use the due date a lot.
We can pin that to the top.
Maybe we use the assignee.
And this is just another great way of being able to Who does declutter the interface to only focus on
the fields that we're using a lot.
And this is a user controlled setting, so you're not affecting any of the fields that are visible for
anybody else on the team.
You're just pinning them for your user account.
Okay, so I know this video is starting to run a little bit long, but there's really one more thing
I want to point out before we wrap this up.
And that has to do with what we have the status here, which we'll look at workflows later on.
So these statuses are customizable by your JIRA administrator, which is where we'll start to look at
how all of that plays together.
But we can customize that as well.
But we have this layout.
So this is really just how this interface is laid out.
This is the standard that we've looked at.
If we switch to a discussion view we can see things like, okay, we have all of our comments or maybe
we want to focus on the work log.
These are things that we've already looked at in the standard view.
They're just visible over here.
But we can change the layout based on our preferences to be whatever sort of layout that we want discussion
or standard, or we can come in here and we can collapse this, right.
If we really want to just focus on this side over here and then switch to the discussion view and just
seeing this or customize this however we want, however we want this layout to look.
And I'd encourage you to take some time to navigate around the work in your organizations JIRA installation
to see what sort of fields your JIRA administrator has set up, maybe what sort of fields you might
want to pin that you might feel you might be working on a lot.
After all, you'll be using work items a lot inside JIRA, so it's worth getting familiar with where
everything is located on your site in your JIRA installation.
So when you're actually getting work done on a daily basis, you'll know exactly where to go after you.
Familiarize yourself with the work item layout in JIRA installation on your side and you're ready to
continue on here.
I'll see you in the next video where we'll learn more about the calendar view.

--- Using the Calendar View ---

In this video, we'll learn about Jiras calendar view.
So let's hop into our company Manage project and then come over to the calendar.
And we can see it's pretty empty in here.
And that leads us to the most important thing to keep in mind with the calendar view is that work will
only show up on the calendar if there is a date field that's been filled out.
For example, one of the default fields that we can add to our work is a due date.
So let's find some work.
I'm just going to hop to the board because we know that there's some on here.
We've seen this before and one of these fields is the due date.
So let's just add in a simple due date here.
And now if we hop over to the calendar view, we can see that work is showing up on the due date.
Now you might have also noticed that there's a start date.
So on the calendar view we can actually click and drag these dates.
And really what Jira is doing on the back end is it's just updating these two fields, the start date
and the due date.
So we can see we didn't add in the start date in this view, we added it in the calendar view when we
dragged the work item on the calendar itself.
So that's really the most important thing to keep in mind about the calendar view, is that the only
work items we'll see on there are the ones that have the dates associated with them.
And similarly, if these dates get removed from the work back on the calendar, all of a sudden it's
going to disappear.
Now, that doesn't mean that the work item has been deleted.
Of course, it's just not showing up on the calendar anymore.
So to get it back on the calendar, we would have to find the work again in another view and then add
that date back so we could either search for it in the global search if we know what we're looking for,
or we can find it on the Kanban board, as we just did a moment ago.
But there is actually another place where we can go on the calendar view itself to find our unscheduled
items.
And that is this little icon right here.
So in here we can find any work that does not have a due date for it.
So we know that this is what that one was, we can filter and now we can open this up very quickly.
Come in, add our date back and it will show up on our calendar view.
Now, before we wrap up, I do want to point out that we have some filters which are exactly the same
as what we've seen in other views, like on our agile board, like the ability to search the summary
field to filter out work items on our calendar, or maybe filter by the assignee the type of work,
the status of the work.
So this one here we can see the status is currently writing, which is a custom status that I've created.
So we can filter by only the work items that are in that status, or maybe only things that are in progress,
which we'll see will make this disappear, because that's not the status associated with that work item.
And again, we'll look at how to create custom statuses when we're logged in as a JIRA administrator.
But just know that if you don't see anything on this calendar view, either there's no data associated
with it, or maybe you have one of these filters and you might need to clear out the filter in order
to show your work items on the calendar again.
And then, just like our agile board, we also have some view settings.
So being able to see things like our sprints.
So if we're working with a scrum workflow and we have sprints, we can see the duration of our sprints
overall.
So this is the same sprint that would be on our scrum board that we saw in a previous video.
We can view that just to help being able to see how the work aligns and the due dates align with our
overall sprints, or we can always come in and turn that off if we want, as well as some other view
settings that are pretty traditional for calendar, you know, windows the week start.
Do you actually want to see weekends if your team is working on weekends, things like that.
So that's a look at the calendar view.
It's a pretty straightforward view that you would expect from any sort of calendar, but it can be a
great way to visualize and tweak the dates for our issues.
Now, if you look up here in the project navigation, the next feature are the reports.
So we'll look at those in our next video.

--- Getting Reports in Jira ---

In this video we'll learn about the reports in JIRA.
So let's hop into our company manage project and then into reports.
And right away, the key thing to know about these reports is they are tied directly to your agile board.
And that is very important to keep in mind, especially when it comes to a company managed project,
because you can have multiple boards in a company managed project.
So here we can see the agile reports that we have associated with this board.
Now this board is actually a Kanban board that lives inside of the project.
But if we open up our sidebar here, we can see there are two boards living inside our project.
If we come to the other board, this has sprints because this is a scrum board.
And so in our reports we have a bunch of different agile reports that are tied to things like epics
and our sprints and our burndown, which again is tied to the sprint goal.
So these are all associated with our scrum board.
That's also important to keep in mind, because it's possible to have work items that live inside of
your project, but aren't showing up on your agile board, depending on how your JIRA administrator
has filtered the board, and if that's how your agile board is set up, that means that your reports
will reflect that as well.
So a lot of these reports, for example, the burndown chart here, this is not unique to JIRA.
This is actually a scrum agile report that basically lets you see how well your sprint is going.
So we can see this is how many work items or issues using the old JIRA terminology when the sprint started
and then at the end of the sprint.
This is kind of the tracking here.
So let's hide our non-working days and we can see This would be when the sprint starts to sprint completion.
And then ideally this line would also be following kind of this gray guideline.
We can see the legend here for the chart.
So burndown charts are not unique to JIRA.
It's a scrum agile report that basically is letting you see how well your sprint is going.
As the days go by, the work gets completed and then that gives you a nice visual view of how the sprint
is going.
Now, I'll be the first to admit that my burndown chart that you're seeing here probably isn't the best
example.
Because of what I talked about before, I'm using my personal JIRA installation for this course since
I can't show my consulting clients boards, but I would encourage you to come in here on your side to
see what your burndown chart looks like for your organization and for your board.
Of course, if we come back to our reports and you don't see those, that's probably tied to what we
just talked about, being that the reports are tied to the boards themselves.
So maybe you're if you're using a Kanban board, you're not going to see things like Burndown and sprint
Report and all of these other scrum reports, but you might still see some that are more, uh, overall,
like the average age report.
If we hop back to our Kanban board and into the reports here, we'll still see some of these.
Well, these are called issue analysis.
Again, the terminology change issue is turning into work or work items.
So I imagine this will change to something like work analysis in the future.
But this is for our work overall and not tied specifically to sprints.
So that's really the key thing to keep in mind with reports is that they are tied to the board.
And so the type of board really matters.
Now before we wrap up this video, there is one more place I want to point out to get some reports.
And that's directly on the board itself.
And I know we already touched on this when we got an overview of the boards themselves, but I want
to point this out again because you'll notice in here our sprint burndown, the same report that we
saw in the reports tab on the insights.
It's not currently available, which quickly starts to run into a permissions thing because we have
to be and have admin permissions to be able to make changes to our board.
So if you come across this or if you come across areas where perhaps the reports aren't showing up or
you think they should reach out to your manager or your JIRA administrator, and don't worry if that's
you, we'll be looking at the back end of this and how to enable the sprint burndown when we're logged
in as a manager with elevated permissions.
So that will be in the reports video and that section if you want to hop over there.
But for right now we still have a few different features left to talk about from a user's perspective.
So when you're ready, let's move on to our next video where we'll learn all about Jiras list view.

--- Using Jira's List View ---

In this video we'll learn about the list view in JIRA.
Now a great way to think of the list view is kind of like a mixture between a to do list from a task
manager, and maybe a spreadsheet tool like Microsoft Excel.
Except of course, because this is all built into JIRA.
That's why we already have all of our work in here.
Now, by now we're familiar with how JIRA basic structure includes things like the breadcrumb at the
top, the project navigation here, and then the filters for the page that we're on.
But then the actual work is showing up in the list view here.
And that leads right into the key thing to keep in mind when you're using this view.
Because unlike reports that we saw in our last video, the list view is not tied to the agile board
itself, but instead it's showing us all the work items in our project, regardless of whether or not
that work shows up on the agile board.
For example, we can see this very clearly.
If we hop into this project here on this board, we can see we have a bunch of different work items
that live in different projects.
But if we come into the list view, it's only showing us all of the the work items that actually live
inside of this project.
Now, I don't actually have a lot of work items in this project, so I'm going to shift back to the
base on a true story project just so we have more work items in this list view to work with.
But I wanted to point that out because if you hop into the list view for the first time, you're not
seeing the work that you expected.
If you're seeing work on the agile board, but you're not seeing it in the list view.
In my experience, that's the biggest reason why.
Now, another thing that I've seen people who are new to JIRA have issues with here in the list view
has to do with having way too many work items and not being able to find the ones that they want.
For that, we can go back to using our filters either these on the left side that we've already really
looked at in other videos.
They work very similar here, although I will say the filter here is a little bit more advanced than
the filters, like quick filters that are pre-created on the agile board.
So we have a few more options in here, but the way that they work is pretty straightforward.
As far as the filters that we've already looked at filtering all of the work items in this list view.
And the same goes for this grouping over here, because the grouping is very similar to the swimlanes
that we saw in the Agile board.
So if we were to say group by status, we can see now all of a sudden everything is rolled into the
status for those work items.
So if we only want to see things in the to do, we can really start to group those and get a nice view
of our work items in the project and the status that they're associated with.
But there's really one area I want to call your attention to in the view settings here that I found
to be most helpful and really helps speed up your workflow, because most of the time when we're working,
we're working on the work items that aren't completed yet, right?
So in the view settings, this little toggle right here is a super fast way of hiding all of the finished
work from the list view.
And now that we've narrowed down the work that we see in our list view, we can take this to the next
level by visualizing network a lot like we would do with maybe data in Excel.
We can do that over here in these three little dots.
We can come in and view this as a chart.
So let's say maybe we want to see yeah.
Let's look at the status field.
And as a donut so we can see okay there's 412 total and 407 of those are to do of course what you'll
use this sort of visualization the field that you want to use.
And then the actual chart type that you want to use will vary depending on what your needs are and what
work you're tracking, but now you know where you can come to create this sort of very simple report
directly inside of the list view.
So to recap, the basic workflow is to first make sure you have the work items filtered in the list
view like we did.
We filtered off all of the done items and then you can view that chart.
Now before I let you go, there are two more really cool things that we can do with the list view that
remind me of using something like Excel.
And the first is that we can apply formatting rules to our work here.
Let me show you what I mean.
Back in these three dots you might have noticed this format rules.
So in here let's add in a rule.
So let's say maybe we want the issue type.
Again this goes back to the terminology change.
And Atlassian as of this recording hasn't made everything into work type.
Used to be issue type.
So let's say work.
The issue type is an epic.
And let's make this oh we can make this I don't know, purple color since epics are purple and doesn't
really show up here.
But as we learned earlier, Gira uses the key as a sequential number.
So a quick thing we can do in our workflow is to sort this key.
The other way to see that now Gira is highlighting our epic, because I know that this is a newer work
item that has been created.
So we can see this formatting being applied to our list view.
But of course these are additives.
So we can add in another rule and let's say okay maybe we want to see things that are um within the
next week do within the next week okay.
So we can see all of those, although it looks like looks like nothing really has a due date within
the next week.
So let's maybe adjust one of these.
There we go.
And now we can see okay well now that is highlighting based on the formatting rules.
And there we go.
Now if you scroll over and you don't see the due date field in here, you can hide fields as well.
But you can also come in and add fields if you want to see those to bring those back.
So you can really start to clean up the list view to see only the items that you really need to see
for your work items.
And again, if you try to add a field and it's not in here, if you recall from our Terms and Concepts
section, it is the JIRA administrator who can control the fields that are associated with work items.
So reach out to your JIRA admin.
If you're trying to add a field or you need a new field created or something like that.
And if you are JIRA admin, of course we're going to look at creating custom fields in the JIRA administrator
section of this course.
But for the list view though, what's really cool is once we have this configured how we want Jira remembers
our rules.
So if we go back to our agile board and we're working day to day.
When we hop back into the list view, we can see that formatting rule still applies.
We don't have to recreate that.
It remembers where we left off.
Now, the last thing that reminds me of Excel in the list view is that, well, we can actually take
all of this work and copy it into something like Excel very, very easily.
So we can either select individual items or we can select all of them if we want to copy to the clipboard.
And now if I pull over something like Excel we can simply hit command V on Mac or control V if you're
on on a PC and paste in all of the fields from our work items.
Now, you might notice, though, that not all of our fields copied over.
That's because this is not a true export to Excel.
It's just a quick copy and paste.
If you are looking for a more in-depth way of exporting to Excel.
That's something that we can do in the all work view, so we'll learn about that in just a few videos
from now.
But in this video we learned how to filter our work in the list view.
Then we learned how to use charts, how to show and hide fields, how to use the rules in the list view.
And there's a lot of power in these features inside the list view.
So I would encourage you to take some time between videos to set up the list.
View on your side with the work items, the fields, and the rules that you want.
Now for the next item in the project navigation.
As we can see here, we can't really cover forms yet because we have to have elevated permissions that
we don't have when we're logged in as a regular user.
So we'll learn more about forms in the managers section, as well as how your manager can enable them
for users.
In this section though, let's skip over the forms and learn about goals in the next video.

--- How to Use Goals with Jira ---

In this video, we'll learn about goals.
Now, before we see how to use goals with JIRA, it's important to keep in mind that goals do not actually
live inside JIRA.
Remember how we learned about some of the other Atlassian apps like Confluence or Bitbucket or Trello?
Well, goals actually live in another of Atlassian apps called Atlassian Home.
So with that in mind, if you'd like to see another course that covers any of those other Atlassian
apps in more depth, by all means let me know.
But for the purposes of this video, in this course, we're going to be focusing on understanding how
goals work with JIRA specifically since, well, understanding JIRA is the purpose of this course.
Goals by themselves are one of those terms that we're all familiar with.
But when it comes to how we track goals, there are a number of ways that we can do that.
For example, one of my favorite ways to track goals is using the Smart goal framework.
Think of this a lot like how we're tracking all of our work collectively in JIRA using the Agile Methodology
framework.
Well, when it comes to goals, JIRA gives us another framework to help us achieve those goals.
And now that we know more about the concept behind goals, it's actually a benefit to having a means
of tracking our goals outside of JIRA, because that means they can be completely independent of the
project's work.
Types and entities inside JIRA.
In other words, we can use goals to track our progress across different projects or epics.
And yet another way that's just going to give us more control and a better insight into what we're doing
and how it's helping us get stuff done overall.
So with all of that in mind, that's why this area in JIRA doesn't let us create goals.
So let's hop into Atlassian Home real quick to create our first goal.
So I'm going to come in here and it's going to open up a new tab.
So this is what Atlassian Home looks like.
Let's come in and create a goal.
So let's call this maybe understanding.
There we go.
Go ahead and click on create.
So now that we have our goal created in Atlassian Home this is the Atlassian home interface.
Let's link some of our work from Jira.
So here we can see this Jira tab.
We can add in JIRA work item.
So we need to paste in the URL.
So I'm going to come back into JIRA here and let's find.
Our epic.
So this is the epic.
That I want to use.
Okay.
So let's just copy this link.
And then coming back over to Atlassian home.
If we command V or control v paste that in.
Now we can see this epic has been tied to this goal.
All.
So now that we've linked that if we hop back to Jira.
Wait a minute, where's our goal?
I thought we linked this.
Well, this brings up a very good point when it comes to goals, if we come back into Atlassian home,
we can see what we've learned is that this is not actually in the same project because of the project
key.
You can identify this right away from things that we've seen earlier in this course.
This is in a project or tutorials project, and that's not the project that we're currently looking
in.
So let's hop into our sidebar, view all projects and we'll find the project with that key.
So let's come in here.
We can collapse the sidebar again, come into our goals.
And now we can see this goal is linked to this project.
And with that in mind, we can start to see how this will visualize the goals outside of JIRA.
Because if we hop back into the project we were in and maybe find some of the work.
So remember from the list view, this is actually in this project.
Let's copy this link, hop back into our goal.
Add this work item.
Now we have something inside of the, uh, Lefebvre project that's associated with this goal.
So if we come back into our goals in here, we can see something that is linked.
So when we're working inside of JIRA, the goals that we see here are only the goals tied to work items
that live inside of this project.
And then from the other side, because goals live outside of Jira, we can see the goals themselves
and then all of the JIRA work items, regardless of the project and how they associate with that overall
goal.
So hopefully the gears are starting to turn in your head.
Now that we're a little more familiar with goals and how they work with JIRA and not really in JIRA,
of course, as we can see here, this Atlassian home interface, this is a whole other app that's outside
of the scope of this JIRA course.
So if you would like a more in-depth look at goals from Atlassian home side of things, let me know.
But now that we have a goal that's linked to some of the work inside of this project, that's why it's
showing up here in this tab in the project navigation.
And then if we go back into Atlassian home, we can either just click on this little link right here,
or I already have a tab open so we can hop in here.
And we can see the other side of it from Atlassian Home.
Regardless of what project it is, we can see the work items in Jira and how they are tied to the overall
goal, regardless of what project they live inside of Jira.
Hopefully the gears are starting to turn in your head now that you're a little more familiar with goals
and how they work with JIRA and not really in Jira.
Of course, as we saw in the Atlassian home interface, there's a whole other app over there that's
outside the scope of this JIRA course.
So if you'd like to get a more in-depth look at goals from Atlassian home side of things, let me know.
Okay, so to recap, goals don't live inside JIRA.
Instead, they're just another way of tracking our work.
But doing that from outside Jira gives us some benefits that we don't get directly inside JIRA.
And as we also saw at the end there, we can always see the goals associated with our work inside JIRA
by going to the goals tab in the project navigation.
Speaking of the project navigation, let's move on to the next item here.
All work and we'll learn all about that in our next video.

--- Searching and Finding Work in the All Work View ---

In this video we'll look at the all work view in JIRA.
Now if you're a returning JIRA user coming back, or maybe your organization is just updated to the
latest version, you might have noticed that some of the last few features and views that we've looked
at are relatively new.
Well, this one might sound new also, but it's really not an older version of JIRA.
It used to be called issues or all issues, depending on what version you're using.
Because if you recall, JIRA has changed the term issues to be worked now and then with the overall
interface update.
This area also got a bit of an uplift, but the core functionality will feel familiar to you if you're
a returning JIRA user.
For example, just a few videos ago we learned about how JIRA work items are laid out.
Since we already talked about things like the breadcrumb and all these fields that we can see on the
work item itself, we can move a little bit faster now and build on that knowledge for this view, because
this is really our work item and all of the fields associated with that.
So the primary reason to come into all work is to find work items.
And before we search for anything in JIRA, it's always a good idea to know what we're searching for.
What exactly are you trying to find?
Think of it like the directions on GPS.
You need to know your final destination before you can determine the best way to find it.
So for this video, here's what I'm trying to find.
Find all work from the last sprint that wasn't completed.
So with that in mind, let's start on the left side over here because these are all of the work items
in this project.
And you can see it scrolls really small.
And if we look at the bottom here, we're only looking at 50 of well over a thousand total work items.
Now of course depending on our screen resolution we might see a few more.
But any way you look at it, when you have thousands of work items, chances are you're going to be
only seeing a fraction of those on the screen at any given time.
But this is also why the all work area is the best place to go find.
Well, all of your work if you can't find it somewhere else.
For example, when we learned about the calendar view that has to have a date associated with it for
work to show up so we can only see one work item because it is the only one that has a date associated
with it in this calendar view.
But in all work we can see everything regardless of what is associated with it.
So right now we can see that our work over here is sorted by when it was created.
Because in my personal workflow, I like to keep JIRA sorting the newest created work at the top.
That makes it easier to find any work that I've just created.
But maybe we want to change this to find work that's maybe been updated.
Well, we can do that.
We can come in here and let's say we want to find anything that's been updated so we can see the difference
here, especially if we look at the sequential numbers.
So the project key and then sequential number is not in order anymore like it is when we look at ordering
by created.
So we can see these are the sequential order that those work items were created.
Another way that we can quickly find work in this view is by using these filters up here at the top.
Now we've looked at some of these filters in other views.
So some of these might look familiar, but some of these are new to this view as well.
So let's run down what each of these are.
So over here on the left we have what JIRA calls the basic view.
And this is the basic view.
You can see this is selected where we can use dropdowns to pick what we want to filter our work by.
So right now it's filtering everything in the based on a true story project.
We can change that if we want.
We want to see everything in based on a true story and the project.
So now we're seeing multiple projects showing up in our all work view, and we can really see that with
the project keys that we've talked about throughout this course and this one here, boats.
That's the acronym for based on a true story, which is why it's showing for any of the work items in
the based on a true story project.
But what we can do is we can switch from the basic view using these dropdowns to Jpql or Jiras query
language.
And that's going to allow us to build this little query for a more advanced search.
And we can see it's already pre-filled with what was already done in the basic search.
Now, I should point out that even though JIRA calls this the basic search, it doesn't mean it's simple
by any means.
There's a ton of power that we have in the basic search, and some of it is our features that were not
available in older versions.
For example, let's say we want to find all of our work that hasn't been completed yet.
In previous versions, we would have to come in.
I'm just going to focus on one project at a time here to keep it simple for this course.
But in previous versions, if we wanted to find all of the work in this project that hadn't been completed
yet, we would have to hop over to the JIRA query language to do a more advanced search.
But not so anymore.
We can come in to status and say the status does not equal done.
So now JIRA is going to filter and only show us issues.
You can see all of a sudden now we're only seeing 50 of 412.
Right.
So not nearly as many work items as the thousands because a lot of those were already completed.
Now as I did mention, if you are using an older version of JIRA, then you would have to hop into the
Jpql or the advanced search in order to do this sort of a search to say the status does not equal done.
But even now there are some options that we can do in the JIRA query language that we can't do in the
basic search.
So let's say we want this project and the status is not done.
But let's come in here and let's say and sprints in close sprints.
Because again this goes back to at the beginning when we know what we're looking for.
And in this case, I'm finding all the work from the last sprint that wasn't completed.
Now if we hit enter to search we can see oh, look at that.
There's only ten different items.
And we've really narrowed down to the work items that live in the based on a true story project.
The status is not done, but they were in a sprint that has been completed.
So in theory, if it wasn't a sprint that was completed, hopefully that work should have gotten done,
but for whatever reason, this wasn't completed.
So this sort of search can be helpful to dig into why that happened.
Maybe bring some of those back to the current sprint, or maybe there were valid reasons why the work
wasn't completed even though the sprint was done.
So in this example here, this particular work item here is a podcast episode that I know I created
in a previous sprint that that sprint is now completed, but the interview itself won't happen until
next month.
And so that's why this is showing up in juror's list of work items that haven't been completed, even
though it has been a part of a sprint that has been completed.
So it's completely valid reason, but we can start to have those discussions when we're using JIRA tools
to help aid us with our overall workflow in the organization.
We can even take this to the next level.
And let's narrow it down even further to the more recent work.
Now, what's really cool about this is we could hop back into the basic view and you can see, oh,
this red area here.
That's because this is using part of the query that doesn't really work in the basic view, but it's
valid.
It's a valid search.
It worked with the advanced JKL view.
So it doesn't break our search, but we can still use the basic view to add things on and work even
faster in some cases.
So let's come in and say find by updated within the last let's say two weeks.
And there we go.
These are two work items that we can have that conversation about.
And the exact same scenario was going on for both of these work items.
I had created them in a previous sprint, but for completely valid reasons.
these work items are not completed even though the sprint was completed.
But we can start to have some of those conversations using the power of searching the all work area
here inside of JIRA.
And there we go.
We've really narrowed down our search filters to find exactly what we're looking for.
And as with anything, when we're searching for work in JIRA, it's just a tool to help you find the
answers that you need.
And those answers are always going to be different on your side than on mine.
So here's a little bit of homework for you to do.
As we wrap up this video, pull out a piece of paper or text editor on your computer and jot down a
quick note for what you want to find.
Then come into the all work section in JIRA and find the filters that will help you search for exactly
what it is you're looking for.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next video, where we're going to learn how we can build on
everything that we've learned in this video by working smarter and saving our filters for reuse in the
future.
See you there!

--- Working Faster with Filters ---

In our last video, we learned how to use the all work section to search for work items.
In this video, we'll continue right along and build on that by learning how to work faster with filters.
So let's start by saving our filter.
Come in here to the save filter link.
We need to give it a name.
A descriptive name is always helpful.
So let's call this incomplete work in a completed sprint, which is what we were searching for in the
last video.
Now, before we save this filter, we'll want to set the permissions because by default, no one else
on our team will even be able to see this filter.
So I'm going to set the view permission to be everyone in my organization.
Because if I want to share the filter, then they would just get a page saying they have to ask for
permission to see it or something that looks like a broken link.
It kind of depends on where they're coming from, but in either case, no other users can see your filters
if it's set to private.
The one exception to this to keep in mind is your global JIRA administrator.
As a general rule of thumb, it's safe to assume that no matter what permissions you set as a user,
your global JIRA administrator can still see everything in JIRA instance when it comes to editing.
Though, I'm going to keep this at private.
So what this means is other users will be able to view it read only, but they can't make changes.
Now, before we actually save this filter, there's one major thing to keep in mind because we haven't
actually changed anything yet.
If you notice right here, it still says private.
In my experience, this is the biggest thing that people who are new to Jira Overlook.
We actually have to hit add first and you can see that changes and now we can save our changes.
Okay.
So now we have our filter created by default.
JIRA should star this filter so we can quickly access it in our sidebar in the starred items.
So we can see this filter is automatically start.
But even if it's not start up here, if we were to OnStar this to remove it so it's no longer in our
start items, we can find it under filters, either recent filters or it might be down here under view
all filters and we can find search by incomplete.
There we go.
So we could open this filter up and make any sort of changes that we want to it.
We can star this filter to add it back into our starred items for quick access.
Now, before we wrap up this video, the last thing I want to walk through is how easy it is to update
our filter at any time.
So let's make a change to our search here.
Let's say maybe we changed our sprint duration from two weeks to a month, so it would make more sense
to see all the work that's been updated in the past month.
So let's update this to four weeks update that.
So now we can either just save this filter or this little drop down here.
We can save this as a copy.
If we wanted to create a new filter instead of overwriting the existing filter.
For the purposes of this video, let's go ahead and just save over the filter that we just made.
Hit save changes and there we go.
That's all there is to it.
And now at any time as we're working in JIRA, we can get back to this filter over here if it's in our
start items, finding it here or in all filters, and we can easily hop back in here.
And if we wanted to make changes to this again, we could make those changes.
We can come in and change the name of it if we wanted to do that.
If we want to change the name, change any of the settings that we set up originally when we created
this filter, we can do that under the filter details.
Now it's your turn.
Take the search that you did at the end of the last video and turn it into a saved filter so you can
access it quickly.
Oh, and if you're a manager or administrator with elevated permissions in JIRA, the process of creating
filters is something absolutely essential for you.
Because filters control everything from the work items that we see on our agile board to the dashboards.
So every agile board has a filter behind the scenes to determine what work we actually see on the board.
But configuring that requires elevated permissions beyond what we have as a regular user in JIRA in
this section.
So we'll be looking at filters for those other features in JIRA once we get into the managers and administrative
sections of this course.
But hopefully you're starting to get a sense for some of the really powerful things that we can do with
this all work area in JIRA.
Actually, there's one more extremely helpful workflow that we can utilize in this all work area in
JIRA.
So let's move on to our next video where we'll look at how we can export our work from Jira and bring
it into a spreadsheet tool like Excel.
See you there.

--- Exporting Work from Jira to Excel ---

In this video, we'll learn how to export work items from JIRA to use in Excel.
Now, as I've said a few times throughout this course, we are focusing on JIRA.
So even though we're using Excel in this video, this is not intended to be an Excel course or even
video.
I just want to show you how you can extend your capabilities to do things like building more advanced
reports in Excel or whatever it is you want to do in there.
But the first step is to find the work items that we want to export in JIRA.
Now, we've already been learning how to find our work in the past couple of videos.
When we've gone into the all work section, we can create any sort of a filter.
We can search however we want to find what it is we need to find, or we can pull open one of our saved
filters.
So I'm going to do that.
Let's hop over to our sidebar.
And we have this saved filter that we've worked on in the past couple of videos.
And actually let's change this view because here in the filter or either in the all work view.
We also have the ability to switch to a list view, just to make it a little bit easier to see the items,
a little bit more like what we're going to see it inside of Excel.
And with this filter loaded, let's export this to Excel.
Now there's a few different ways we can do this, but probably the easiest is actually to come up to
apps and open in Microsoft Excel.
Now, if you haven't done this before, you might have a few permissions.
Screens pop up for the first time because on the back end, what Jira is doing is it's installing a
free app in the background to connect Jira Cloud to Excel.
So I'm going to open this up and let's give it permissions.
Hit accept for the first time.
There we go.
Now let's open this up into Excel.
And we can see pull this in a little bit easier.
We can see not only do we get everything that we've uh, in our, uh, search, in our filter.
But what's really cool is with this little add on, now we can come in here and see.
Look these are this is the filter.
This is the filter that we had created.
Or we could open in some other ones.
Maybe my open issues.
If we want to open that then let's go ahead and get the data.
Give it a moment and then that will refresh directly inside of Excel.
This is another great example of why it's a great idea to save our filters, like we learned about in
the last video.
And then once we're in Excel, we can do whatever it is that we need to do inside of Excel.
Now I'm going to close out of this screen, and before we wrap up this video, let's hop back into JIRA.
Because if you notice, not only does it support Excel, it also supports Google Sheets.
But what if we're using a different app?
Well, I mean, I guess we could grab that file that got downloaded that we saw.
But what if we want some more control of this?
Maybe we have our filter, but we don't want to export every single work item in every single field,
every single time for that workflow.
We still need to start with finding our work first.
So again, we can create our filter or we can use a different one.
So let's come in and let's maybe do um let's do a different filter.
Let's do something that's, you know, updated recently just so we have some different work items in
here to see this slightly different process.
And this is where it's really helpful to be in this list view because these are all the fields up here.
So now if we come in and we say okay we want to export this, let's export this either as CSV with all
fields or my defaults.
So what is my defaults mean?
My defaults are the fields that we see right here.
And if we want to customize this, if we want to say maybe we don't want to see the reporter, we don't
want to see priority, we can see status.
Or we could add things in and notice when we add this in.
This is my defaults.
So these are all the fields that are going to be exported when we choose my default for that CSV.
And of course there's so many in here, all of our fields that we have inside of Jira or fields.
If we need to create new ones we'll look at how to do that once we are the JIRA administrator.
Once we have this list, set the way that we want.
Now if we come in and export my defaults, give it a moment.
Depending on how many work items you have, it will determine how long that takes.
Here is our CSV that we can open up.
It's going to open in numbers instead of Excel because that's apparently the default on my computer.
But you can see all of these work items have been exported.
And we also have all of these different fields.
Associated with it in our sheet.
And of course because this is just a download here.
We can pull open our downloads folder to see this is what we had imported with the uh, the app that
it automatically connected.
And then this is the CSV.
So we could open this directly with Excel instead of numbers if we wanted to do that.
And do whatever it is that we need to do inside of Excel with all of this data.
Now obviously the work items and the fields that you select will always be different, but between the
connected app that lets you pull things into Excel quickly and then the ability to choose our work and
fields in the all work section, or even pulling in saved filters, we have a ton of control over being
able to pull things into Excel for more advanced reporting, or really any other app that we'd want
to pull this data into.
Now, obviously, the work items and the fields that you'll select will always be different, but between
the connected app that lets you pull things into Excel quickly and then the ability to choose our work
and fields either in a filter, or we can come in back to our project.
And in all work see that the the process is basically the same.
Except of course we'd be exporting using this icon here to export the work.
From this view, obviously the work items and fields that you'll select will always be different, but
between the connected app to let you pull things into Excel quickly and the ability to choose our work
and fields in the all work section of JIRA even before exporting it, we have a ton of control over
being able to pull things into Excel for more advanced reporting, or really any other app that we'd
want to pull this data into.
Now, some of these other features that we'll want to have elevated permissions for so that we can create
and edit them to really understand how they work.
So in our next video, we'll actually hop back to one of the features over here on the left side that
we haven't gotten to yet.
The timeline.
See you there.

--- Roadmapping Work in the Timeline View ---

In this video we'll learn about the timeline view in JIRA.
Now, if you are using an older version of JIRA, the timeline feature used to be called the roadmap,
or depending on the license of JIRA that you have, it might be the advanced roadmap, but it's the
timeline now.
But even now, the license matters, as we can see here, because my agile board, if we come to the
Agile board, you can see there's actually work items from multiple projects on this one board.
And so when we come to the timeline, we need a JIRA premium license in order to be able to see work
from multiple projects.
So that's something to keep in mind.
And if you require this, of course, you'd have to reach out to your JIRA administrator because that's
going to affect the billing.
But that doesn't mean we can't use the timeline view in JIRA standard license like I'm using in this
course, because all we would have to do is to change the board filters to only include work from a
single project.
So we can see this timeline here has work from a single project.
So all of this is driven by the Agile Boards filter, which we're going to learn how to configure the
Agile Board filter in the manager section because you have to have elevated permissions.
But this is just another great example of how JIRA assumes you know some agile terms, because the key
thing to keep in mind with the timeline view is this is a place for us to track the epics, and we learned
about that concept in the agile terms you need to know video in the Terms and Concepts section.
And now that we're inside of JIRA, we can see the epic work type here and kind of a Gantt chart style
view where we can visualize the epics progress, so we can see the date over here, and we can click
to start to plan out our work very, very quickly.
You can see how we're basically adding dates now on the back end.
What JIRA is doing is it's adding the start and due date fields.
On the epics.
We talked about the start and due date fields.
When we looked at the calendar view.
It's basically doing the same thing except on the epic work type.
Now that's important to keep in mind because by default those fields are not always enabled on every
single work type.
So if we open up this epic here.
Okay, so it looks like we do have them enabled on this epic.
But if you don't see these start and due date field, which is what's driving this little indicator
here, as I change this, watch what happens to the start date here.
That'll change and update automatically.
If you don't see those, then you'd reach out to your JIRA administrator to make sure that those fields
are enabled or visible inside of the epic work type.
But this is really just a nice way of being able to plan out our work ahead of time so we can get some
ballpark timelines.
For how long the work inside.
So these are the two work items inside of this epic.
And we can start to visualize and get a sense for our overall, well, timeline or roadmap.
And we can also quickly add in some new epics right here from this view as we're planning.
So think of this kind of like when we created the work item on the board itself in an earlier video.
In this section, we can do the same sort of thing with our epics, just creating the summary here.
So let's say maybe this is another epic.
Add that in.
And now this epic has been created.
We can add in okay, maybe we want this to be more in July carrying into August.
We could even come in and start to add some some child issues.
So.
There we go.
One of the episodes inside of this epic.
Let's actually change this to be an episode type.
There we go.
Oh, it didn't save.
That's a good example.
I forgot to hit enter.
Go ahead and hit enter there.
Just clicked away.
So now that this work item has been created, we can really start to dial down and see the work that's
involved.
And then the epics.
And again, this is just another visual way of being able to see the work that we have going on.
So if you're familiar with Gantt style charting in project management, this is fairly straightforward.
And when it comes to JIRA, creating the work here in the timeline view is exactly the same as creating
work with the create button at the top.
If we were to create epics, of course, when we're creating it directly in the timeline, all we're
doing is filling in the summary field here and then the rest can be filled in later.
We can open this up and add in the description or, you know, whatever sort of other fields that we
need to add, just like we've learned about throughout this entire section on any of our work items.
So the only thing we haven't really talked about much yet is this filter bar up here.
Because as we can see, a lot of these filters are the same sort of filters that we've seen in all of
Gira's different views.
So we can filter anything in here.
So by by the text.
So it's just going to look in the summary again just like all of the other filters or who they are assigned
to or who are currently logged in as to see if there's any work items here.
Looks like there's no work items currently assigned to Kieran in this timeline, but one thing that's
worth pointing out is these quick filters here are customizable, but they're also customizable from
the board, so these are the exact same quick filters that we have on the agile board that we looked
at earlier in this course.
And we'll look at how to configure these on the board once they're configured on the board.
Because the timeline is keyed into the board.
Those same quick filters will show up here.
So if you need the custom quick filters on your timeline view, those actually get set up in the board
itself.
So the rest of these filters work are pretty straightforward.
One cool one that I do want to point out is this goals here that's pretty unique to the timeline view,
is that we can filter by the goals because we worked or we linked our work to goals in an earlier video.
Now we can filter that on the timeline to see what sort of work on our timeline is affecting some of
these goals.
And then, just like some of our other views in JIRA, we have the view settings here.
So we could come in and a very quick way to expand every single epic.
I've worked with some consulting clients who have tons of epics in here in the timeline view, as they're
planning out work for the next year or so.
And rather than coming in here and manually having to open or close each one, a really quick way of
doing that is in the view settings to expand or collapse every single epoch very quickly, as well as
maybe turning off some of these items that we don't want to see, just to clean up the view from the
things that we don't need, or if we do want to see those, we can always pull those back into view
settings as well.
And then finally, once we have our roadmap figured out, once we have everything in place kind of where
we want all of this work to go.
What we can do, let's shift the view so we can see a little bit easier here.
Zoom out a little bit.
What's really cool is we can come in here and we can actually export this either as a CSV, which is
similar to what we saw when we exported to Excel, except it's obviously just going to pull this information.
But I really like that they've included the ability to export this as a PNG, because then what we can
do is we can change this view, customize what the PNG looks like, and then share this as an image
with any of the stakeholders who might not be inside of JIRA all the time, but they still want to see
an overall view of the plan ahead.
Okay, so to recap, in this video we learned how the timeline is a way of visualizing our epics.
It's a quick way of being able to plan things out in a Gantt chart style view, directly inside of Jira.
Of course, just like the workflows of agile methodology can be an entire course by itself, the project
management workflows around building out Gantt charts can also be an entire course by itself.
In fact, if you are using a premium license of JIRA, that gives you the more advanced timeline view
that offers more ways of being able to plan out your work.
Well, as you can see, that's more than what I have in this course with the standard JIRA license.
But let me know if you'd like to see a more advanced timeline course.
For now, we've almost completed the core features in this project navigation.
But we still have one more feature to cover.
So let's move on to our next video where we'll learn about the project summary.

--- Using the Project Summary ---

In this video we'll learn about the project summary in JIRA.
So now that we've gone through all of these different features here in the project navigation, the
project summary should make a lot more sense because, well, it's a summary of everything that we've
looked at so far in this section, which means we can move a lot faster in this video.
For example, we looked at the due dates with the timeline view, but also in the calendar view.
And then up here at the top we can see an overview of recent updates made to our work.
Right.
Or things have been created in the past few days, or maybe things that have due dates.
And then if we actually click on this, it'll basically take us to a list view, filtering out only
the items that have a due date within the next seven days.
So we can see filters are applied.
Clear that out and we're back to the basic list view.
So that's really what the summary is doing.
Again, it's just a summary of a lot of the things that we've looked at already in this section.
So with that in mind, we can see all these different ways that JIRA is visualizing the work items in
our project.
Or more specifically, it's actually pulling the fields from our work items to create these charts like
this.
Status overview.
This is very similar to the insight that we looked at on the board, right of the status to get that
little thing, or even in the list view, we pulled in a very simple report looking very similar to
this status overview.
In the summary, it's basically pulling in the same information, but not everything in the summary
is tied directly to a visual report of the fields on our work.
For example, this recent activity here is just an overall look at whatever fields have been changed
in this project.
So for example, in our last video when we were looking at the timeline we went through and we created
this epic, we updated the due date on it so we can see that activity here listed out, as well as creating
the episode that went underneath the epic in the timeline view.
We did that in the last video and then we associated that automatically as it was created.
We can start to see some of what happened in our last video that we did on the timeline view.
We can see what JIRA was doing in the background with these, updating the fields and things like that.
And then of course we can always come in here and make those changes if we want to.
If we wanted to unlink this, we can do that.
And then let's get back to our summary and we can see there we go.
That's that update updated that field the issue parent association, the issue being the old term for
the work items.
So this is just a really cool way of being able to see again the recent activity.
And then we have our priority breakdown.
down.
So this is it's explained right here a holistic view of how work is being prioritized.
So this is the field directly on the work items themselves.
So if we were to open up one of these work items we can see the priority.
So this is a low priority.
If we were to set this to something like a blocker priority and then come back into our summary view,
we'll see.
Oh, there's actually one work item that is blocker.
And if we open this up that's the one that we just changed that to.
So you can see how the fields are affecting the reports that we see in our summary view as well as across
all of Jira.
And then really on the back end what JIRA is doing here for the summaries.
It's kind of building a pre-built filter for us to isolate any of those things, like the high priority
work item, and then it's automatically linking us to those.
And the rest of these are pretty straightforward.
You know, we have the types of work and have a breakdown of the distribution of the type of work.
If you are a junior administrator, I would recommend keeping an eye on these work types here in the
summary view.
Because if you're starting to notice an overwhelming number of the same work type like you can see right
here, I have an overwhelming number of episode work types.
It might be worth investigating further, at least to have that discussion in your next team meeting,
in case your team needs more types of work creating JIRA to help organize things better.
Of course, that's not always the case in my example here.
In this case, as I mentioned, this project is for tracking my podcast, so it makes sense that most
of the work items in this project are my custom episode work type that I've created.
The same is true for something like the team workload.
This is another helpful one to keep an eye on, to see who might be overwhelmed with work, while others
might be able to help clear off some of that workload.
Of course, again, in my example, my podcast is just me, so my numbers are very skewed in this project
where 99% of the work is assigned to Dan.
And then last but not least, we have a good overview of our epic progress.
The key thing to focus on here has to do with the status.
This is the status of the work items associated with the epic.
So as the work items associated with this epic are completed, this is going to go up this percentage.
So we can see there's 53 that have been done and eight of the work items associated with the boats this
week epic are still to do, which is why 87% complete, right?
53 done, eight to do, 87% complete, which means 13% not complete.
Now before we wrap up this video, the last thing I want to point out is right here at the top.
Again, it's also straightforward, but it's important enough not to let it slip through the cracks.
And that is this filter here.
This can be a great way to see all of these charts for your team overall, which is the default view
of what we were just looking at or as a day to day user in JIRA.
Maybe you don't necessarily care about everyone on your team all the time and seeing all of their work
too.
Well, you can filter this by who it's assigned to and let's say anything assigned to the current user
so assigned to Kieran.
And now everything in this summary view is going to update.
So now we can see oh look there's not nearly as many work items.
We're only seeing the things that are associated with Kieran.
So this is now our own custom little summary of everything for this project and in this board.
So now this is our own little Personalized summary of everything assigned to us, to the user that's
currently logged in.
Okay.
And with that, we've come to an end of this section all about understanding JIRA for users.
Now, as I mentioned a few times throughout this section, there are still some features that we didn't
get the chance to talk about how to use or customize because they really require elevated permissions.
So in our next section, we're going to be logged in as a manager with project administrative permissions.
Now, even if you are not a manager or team leader with elevated permissions, I would still recommend
checking out the rest of this course, because it can help give you a peek behind the scenes of how
Jira works.
And it will also give you a good idea of the features that your manager, or even global JIRA administrators
can control on the back end too.
So you'll know what sort of features they might be able to enable for you to be a more effective user.
So take a break and whenever you come back, I'll see you in the next section.

--- Introduction to the Jira for Managers Section ---

Hello and welcome to this section covering JIRA for team leaders and managers.
In this section, we'll be building on the knowledge that we learned in the previous sections.
So if you haven't seen those I would highly recommend starting off there.
Now by default inside JIRA, there aren't any special permissions for managers.
However, in my experience as a JIRA administrator, I found there's a lot of times where managers want
to be able to control their teams, projects and boards without having to wait for JIRA administrator
to do it for them.
And to do that, they'll have to have administrator permissions over the project.
So that's why throughout this section, we're going to be logged in as someone who has administrative
permission over a single project inside of JIRA.
In this section, we'll learn how to help our teams be more successful by setting up Jira features like
teams and dashboards.
We'll dig into creating and customizing both Scrum and Kanban boards, as well as some example day to
day workflows so you can pick up some tips and tricks to help your team be as effective as possible,
and so much more.
So whenever you're ready, I'll see you in the next video, where we'll kick things off by learning
how to work with the feature inside Jira, simply called teams.

--- Working with Jira's Teams ---

In this video we'll learn about Jira s teams.
Now, right away, there are two key things to keep in mind when it comes to teams.
The first has to do with the name itself.
Jiras teams are not at all the same as Microsoft Teams.
As we've seen in Jira, you can connect Microsoft Teams to JIRA for communication, but Jiras teams
are basically a landing page for.
Well our team.
The other thing to keep in mind is that not everyone needs to use teams.
In my experience, some of my clients don't even use teams in Jira, but some do, and I think it's
worth learning about them because you're always better off making a conscious decision not to use a
feature instead of missing out on something that might actually be helping your team.
So let's hop into Jira because we can find teams over here on the left side menu, and we can either
create a team using the Create Team button, or simply click on plus and create our team.
Let's give our team a name here.
So this is our customer service team.
And we can add in team members right away.
But I'm not going to do that now.
I'm going to show where we can do that once we have our team created.
So let's view our team.
And let me close this side menu here.
Just so we have a little bit more space.
And now that our team has been built we can start to customize it for our team.
So right up here at the top we have our header image.
Uh I have in the project files actually an image that you're free to use.
You can see the resolution on this if you want to create your own.
Uh, but we can upload our image just to customize this a little bit.
Open that up.
There we go.
So we have a customized header image.
There are a couple more things to keep in mind with teams in JIRA.
The first is that anything we add in here is going to be facing the rest of our JIRA installation.
It's not public facing.
The second is it's not really intended for the people in the team to collaborate on work.
That's what the rest of Jira is for.
But that's what I mean by a team being a landing page for a collection of users.
So that means the people coming here will be other folks from our organization.
I've heard some people refer to the feature of teams as kind of like an intranet landing page, which
I thought was a pretty good description.
That's important for how we set this up, because that affects how we word things as we customize our
teams page.
So if we come over here to the about section, we can customize that.
There we go.
So how we word this is really for other people in our organization.
Again not public facing.
And of course as a team we can add in members here.
So instead of adding it when we just created our team we can just click on plus to add somebody in.
So let's add in Eldora.
And when I do this watch what happens when I add in Eldora.
Look at the team activity down here.
Because as soon as we add in a user that has activity associated with it, we can see this activity
will start to show up.
Same with any work items that are assigned.
We'll start to show up on our team page.
One of the things that's nice about teams is they work independently from jiras projects and the users
that you have in them, so you don't necessarily have to have all the same people in a project and those
same people in teams, you can customize it.
For example, in my experience, the company I work for, we used to make our projects around the team
structures in our organization because that made the most sense at the time.
But this was before the teams feature even existed.
But once teams were introduced in JIRA, we could be more flexible with the projects and organize those
well based on the overall projects instead of the teams.
And then here on the team page, we can do things like link our JIRA projects.
So if we want to link in the projects that this team is working on, we can do that here.
Same with if we're using confluence again.
Confluence is at Atlassian's documentation wiki tool.
So outside the scope of this JIRA course because it is its own license, but because they're both apps
from Atlassian, we can tie both of those in here, or just add in any sort of web link that we want
to do here as well.
So now that we have a good idea of what the team's feature is doing as we move down the page, a lot
of this makes more sense as a central landing page for any work related to many of the features in JIRA
that we've already looked at in the last section.
For example, the work items that are assigned to users on the team will show up here, just like the
activity.
Or we looked at goals in our last section, we can see the goals that our team is contributing to automatically
showing up here.
Or if your organization is using Atlassian Compass to track software components, then those will start
to show up here for any of the users that are actually assigned to them or are actually working on those,
just like we saw with the activity for Eldora that will automatically start to show up here, or maybe
adding in relevant help links that might be a little more relevant to the customer service team that
we've created here.
And since this is for our customer service team, we could either add in help links for the rest of
our team, or maybe they'll want to use this as a quick resource for the rest of the organization to
know where they can direct our customers when they interact with them.
Just a nice way of being more efficient.
So we can either use request or maybe a knowledge article.
I'm going to do a request here just to show what this looks like.
So let's say this is where anybody else in the organization can send to a user.
They can send them to our contact page as a quick way of being able to make a request or use the JIRA
collector tab to automatically add work in.
There we go.
Add that.
There we go.
So this is pretty straightforward.
But if we look at this from another user logged in.
So if we come over to our project let's go to our all of our teams.
Here's our customer service team.
And we can see this link has been added in here.
So they can very quickly say, oh, this is where we want to send somebody when they make a request.
This is that link and then the customer service team on the back end can manage all of that and make
sure that those links are the most relevant for anybody in our organization.
The last thing to point out here are the kudos, which aren't really for tracking work or anything like
that, but there's really a nice way of being able to offer some positivity for people on the team.
It's not really that complex of a concept, but personally I think it's great to be able to offer some
kudos when appropriate.
And it's really cool that Atlassian has built this into the team pages.
So if we wanted to give kudos, we could do that.
There we go.
Something simple.
We could personalize this if we want to add any sort of, uh, gif that we want, give the kudos to
the team, and now we can see what those look like right here.
Or if we come back to the team, if we come into To the one of our user profiles, we can see those
kudos that have been received because Eldora is a part of that team.
And at any time we've come back to our team page, if we're done with our team, we can come up to the
three dots and delete the team.
Just remember, when you do this, anything that you've added to the team, like the links, all of
that's going to be deleted.
And there is no way that your JIRA administrator can bring that back.
It's gone for good.
I just want to show you where that's at if you want to delete it.
I'm not actually going to go in and delete the team, because remember how I said teams aren't where
the work gets done?
Well, once we have our team created, that does unlock some back end things that Jira will let us use
to very quickly build things for our team.
One of those is an agile board where our team can get work done together.
So let's move on to our next video where we're going to look at how to create a new agile board for
our team.

--- Creating a Scrum Board and Bulk Importing Work ---

In our last video we looked at creating a team in JIRA.
In this video, we'll look at how we can set up a place for our team to get work done with an agile
board.
Now, before we begin, I do want to point out that by default, JIRA will automatically create an agile
board for you when you create a new team manager or company managed project.
So it's very likely your JIRA administrator has already created the project for you to work in, which
means you already have an agile board.
But one of the big benefits to company managed projects is that you can have multiple boards in the
same project.
So if you want to add a new agile board, all you have to do is to come over here to the left.
Menu.
Find our project.
So we're going to work in this customer service project.
And in here we can click on plus and create a new board.
Now we'll look at both of these.
But scrum is at the top.
So let's start with this one for this video.
And then we'll look at the Kanban process later.
So we'll start with our scrum board.
So let's give this a name.
So this is our customer service scrum.
Now we need to tell Jira what to include on this board.
Now remember in our last section when we learned about filters on the back end.
That's all that Jira is doing is creating a filter for us to use with this board.
So no matter what we pick here, we can always adjust that later on.
And we'll actually look at that here in a moment.
But first we need to create our board.
So what we're going to include is our team.
So let's include the customer service team that we just created.
Go ahead and click on create.
Now right away we can tell that our board is very empty.
And that's simply because in my JIRA installation, this is a new project that I created just for this
tutorial.
So we don't have any work items in here yet.
So all we need to do is to come in here and either start creating some work here.
Or as we learned in our last section, we can use the create button as the most common method to create
new work items.
But as a fun little tip, We can actually bulk import a bunch of work items into JIRA really fast.
To do that we can come into all work in the project navigation, come to the three little dots and import
work items from a CSV.
And then we just walk through this little wizard here that Jira has.
So we need to pick the project.
Remember, all work items need to live inside of a project.
So we pick the project.
We want these work items that we're importing here.
So let's pick our customer service projects.
The rest of these we can leave at the default for this simple CSV.
Now we need to map what we just saw in Excel to the actual JIRA field.
So if I pull this back again real quick, you can see what this is doing.
So you can see the assignee for missing transcript and episode 371.
You can see that's the summary right here in here, as well as the description, the assignee and the
priority.
It's just pulling this top one to give us an example of what that mapping looks like.
So let's come in and we want this to be the assignee.
This is going to be the description the priority.
And then the summary.
There we go.
Go ahead and click on next.
And now JIRA has a validator that's going to let us make sure that it's done it correctly before actually
importing anything.
So let's run the validator.
Here we go.
It's processing.
And oh look at this validation process has found a couple of errors.
So this is a common error that I've seen managers have when they're importing work.
And they're trying to assign work to different users.
The issue here is that JIRA is looking for a user ID and not the actual user name.
So let me show you how we can fix this.
So let's come back.
Go back to our mapping here.
and for the assignee.
Let's map the field value.
So this is going to let us customize how JIRA maps the field instead of just as is from the CSV which
is the user name.
We need to actually give JIRA the actual value, which is the id inside of Jira.
So now we need to figure out what the ID is.
So an easy way to do this is to go into the user profile.
So let me hop back to our team here.
I'm going to open this up in a new tab.
And we're looking for Helen.
So I'm going to open up Helen's profile and also.
Eldora and open up her profile.
There we go.
Now this is off screen here a little bit.
But let me pull her profile here.
And we can see in this URL all of this is her user ID.
So I'm going to cut that.
And for Eldora I'm going to paste this in here.
There we go.
And then do the same for Helen.
So this is her user ID.
And you can see why JIRA uses the user names instead of the user ID.
But now we're saying okay, anywhere in this CSV, if I pull this back here, anywhere in the CSV that
it says the assignee is Eldora really map that to this value?
And the same for Helen.
So these work items assigned to Helen will get mapped to this new value.
Now let's validate and make sure that this works.
Let Jared go through the validation process.
And perfect.
So now we can begin the import.
Click on Begin Import.
Give it a moment to process how long this actually takes.
Of course depends on how much work you're importing.
So we'll give this a moment for JIRA to import all of our work items.
And there we go.
All right.
So now we can actually check the issues, which is these are the work items.
Again remember that work items used to be called issues.
So this is an area that I have a feeling will be updated in the future to reflect the new terminology.
But we can check our created work items here.
And we can see all of these work items that have been imported.
So these 25 work items are the same as these 25 work items that we've created here.
This is on row 26 because of course we have the fields at the very top.
But we've imported these work items from the CSV directly into JIRA.
And just as another quick update, if you are using the JIRA query language, this is another example
of terminology that hasn't been updated yet for things like the issue key, because of course they're
called work items now.
So this is the issue key or the work item key.
I'm sure that that will be updated by Atlassian in the future, but just keep that in mind.
As terminology is updating from issues to work items, there might be some areas where you're still
seeing issue in the interface like this here, but all of our work has been imported and we can see
the work is actually assigned to the correct people on our team because of that ID.
But what about our board?
So let's go back there.
I'm going to close out of this and let's refresh our board here.
If we go, we can see all of the work in the all work part.
But let's go to our backlog.
And where's our work?
It's not on the board.
It's not on the active sprint.
We don't have a sprint going.
It's not in the backlog.
Where is all of our work?
Well, that brings up a great point, because JIRA boards don't necessarily display all of the work
that lives inside of a project.
So let's move on to our next video where we'll learn how to control what work items show up on our agile
board.

--- Bulk Editing and Controlling the Work on Our Scrum Board ---

In our last video, we imported a bunch of work items into our company managed project, but they're
not showing up on our scrum board yet.
So let's learn how we can control what work items we see on our scrum board.
So let's come in and configure our board.
So in here we can do some simple things like set up the board name.
But notice down here we have the board filter.
And we learned more about filters in our last section.
But this particular filter was created by Jira automatically when we created the board in our last video.
And the work items that we see on our board are driven by this filter query, which I know doesn't make
a lot of sense right now.
These are just ID numbers.
So the ID number for the project, the custom field ID number and then the value for that.
But let's break this down.
And the easiest way to do that is really what we came in here to do anyway.
And that is to edit the filter query.
Now if you watch the last section this area should already look familiar to you.
We learned about this when we created a custom filter, which we also learned is basically just a saved
search.
And that explains nothing's matching our search.
That's why we don't see anything on our agile board, because there's nothing in this search.
The filter that JIRA created on the back end when we created our board is returning no results.
That's why we're not seeing anything on our board.
And the reason for this is because when we imported all of those work items, they're not actually assigned
to our team.
We can see our team field right here.
If we switch to the JIRA query language.
That is what this is right here.
This is a custom field which that field is team.
And then this is the ID of our customer service team inside of Jira.
So JIRA is trying to find all of the work assigned to that team.
But we assigned the work items to users on the team, which is a different field.
That's the assignee field in JIRA on the back end.
That is a different field.
So if you remember in our last video I'm going to pull over the CSV just real quick here.
If we wanted to do this at the time of import, we'd want to add in a new field field here, and then
add in this ID number of the customer service.
Or we can do the same thing we did with the assignee, and then map it and use this ID to map that field.
But once we've already had this created, one of the powerful things about JIRA is we can always come
back in here to make changes later.
So let's fix this.
Let's come back into the basic view.
We need to find all of the work items that we just created.
So we saw how we did that in the last video when we pulled up that filter.
But if we remove the team here, we can see all of these work items that we've created.
Right.
So these are all of the work items in this customer service project on your side.
You may have more work items if you already had some in your project.
Again, this is a new project I created for this tutorial, so I only have the 25 that we just imported.
So what we're going to want to do is a bulk edit.
So let's select all of these.
And then we can edit the fields.
And then we're going to find the team field.
And let's add in.
Let's find the team field.
There we go.
Have that selected.
And then the team we are going to change to the customer service team.
Go ahead and click on next.
And so this is going to be the update.
We're changing all of those work items to be associated with the customer service team field.
Go ahead and click on confirm.
Give Jira a moment to perform this bulk action.
And once this is done we can go back to our board.
So I'm going to close out of the filter here, come back to our board.
And now we can see all of those work items are showing up in our backlog.
Now as of this, recording teams is still a relatively new feature in JIRA.
So I have a feeling Atlassian will update the interface to map the name of the team instead of using
that long ID string we saw in the filter query.
But in this video, we learned how to do bulk editing of the work items to make sure they're all assigned
to our team.
And we also learned how a filter query is what controls the work items that we see on the scrum agile
board.
And now that we have all of our work items in the backlog, we're almost ready for our team's first
sprint.
But before we do that, there are a few more options I'd recommend that you look at to make sure JIRA
is set up properly for your team, and we'll look at those in our next video.

--- Configuring Our Scrum Board ---

When we created our scrum board.
JIRA automatically configures some default settings for us, and maybe those are okay.
But in my experience, there are probably going to be some customizations you want to do for your team.
So in this video we'll learn where we can go to do that.
So let's come into these three little dots and go to configure our board.
And we already touched on these briefly.
But if you want to change things like the board name who has administrative permissions to the board.
So who can make these changes in the settings we're in right now for the board as well as the board
location, the project that this board lives in or the board filter that we looked at in our last video.
But let's shift over to the left side menu for some more settings, starting with making sure that JIRA
is properly reflecting the days that our team is working.
So as you can see, by default JIRA is set to Monday through Friday.
And you might need to double check this time zone.
In my case, I'm not going to change any settings in here, but it is worth double checking on your
end because JIRA Gira uses these working days to make sure that the reports we see for the board are
displaying accurately, like things for our burndown charts and things like that.
Next, we have our estimation, and in my experience, this is probably one of the most common things
you want to change is the estimation.
Because by default JIRA is going to be using story points.
That's an agile term that basically tries to add all the time and difficulty of a story into a single
numerical value.
And if your team is using that, great.
That is as default as we can see.
Uh, but for my team, we're actually going to use the original time estimate, which is basically tracking
hours.
And then if you want the ability for your team to actually track time in JIRA, you can turn this on.
The key thing to be aware of here is that this is not really a timer that automatically tracks time.
This is just the ability to manually log work with each work item.
And we actually looked at that process in the last section when we were viewing and editing work items.
Something else we looked at in the last section was the timeline view.
Now, if our team isn't going to use that, we can turn that off right here just to clean up the board's
menu a little bit.
And the rest of the configuration options we looked at from the user side as well too.
But here we can configure it for this board.
So things like the columns.
This is probably one of the most popular things that I've seen teams customize.
Because this is how we tell JIRA what columns we actually see on the board, as well as the work status
associated with that column.
So let me move this menu here just so we can see this a little bit easier.
So we can see these are the three columns on our board.
So when a work item is dragged from to do to in progress, it could be either the in review status or
the in progress status.
So if we wanted each status to have its own column, we can do that.
Let's add in a new column here.
Let's call this in review.
Move this over.
There we go.
And now if we head back to our board, we can see we have our In Review column that's been added to
the board.
If we go back to our backlog and into the board settings.
For some of these we won't see them in action because we don't actually have an active sprint as you
just saw.
That just means there's no work on our board yet to be able to visualize some of this.
But some of us we've already looked at, for example, back in lecture 20 when we were grouping work
items horizontally.
Well, that was the display settings for an individual user.
But in here in the board settings, we can set up the default swimlanes for anyone who uses the board.
And then we have the color card.
So color cards is just a nice visual display to make it easier to quickly identify the work on the board.
So, for example, if we were to switch this to something like priorities, we can see again there's
some defaults.
We can change this if we want to.
We want to change any colors.
We could do that.
But if we switch back to our board here we can see the color cards are right here.
So it's just a nice visual display to see.
Okay, this is low priority, which is why this has a green color card.
But a high priority work item has a red color card.
And that is tied directly to the setting right here.
For low and high, it looks like it's actually gray.
You can tell it's a little difficult to see.
We could switch this to green if we actually wanted it to be.
Maybe the lowest is a lighter green.
Make those changes and you can see those actually be updating.
It is a very slim line there that can be difficult to see, but you can visualize very quickly and differentiate
between low priority and high priority that way.
So it's just a nice way of being able to visually distinctly see those a little bit easier.
Next we have the card layout, which we won't be able to see quite yet here because we don't have an
active sprint going.
So there's not any actual work on the board.
But here's a quick preview from the Configuring Kanban video coming up soon, where you can see what
it's like to customize what fields you can see on each card on the agile board.
And that's what the card layout does.
And then last but certainly not least, we have our quick filters.
So we've looked at filters numerous times now the process should be familiar.
But what's really cool about these quick filters is that they're located conveniently on our agile board.
So if we head back to our board here and we can see the quick filters are both on the backlog as well
as the active sprint, and these are the same quick filters that we can customize in the board here.
So I would encourage you to work with your team to figure out what would be best for them to filter
quickly on their scrum board.
For example, let's say we want to find all the work with over three hours of estimated time to create
a quick filter.
Let's call this over three hours because we're using our time estimate that we changed just earlier
in this video.
We can say the original time estimate is greater than three.
Create that.
And now if we go back to the board well we're going to see an issue here because we haven't actually
added any time estimates to the actual work itself.
You can see the original time estimate for all of these is at zero, because we just added that field
earlier when we added the time tracking to in the board settings.
Now we could come in here and edit these fields.
To do the estimate.
The original estimate is what we want.
There we go.
And we could change all of these to be maybe two hours.
That's not super realistic for every single work item to be the exact same amount of time.
So actually I'm going to come in here, I'm going to do a quick speed up as I'm editing each of these,
just to add a little more realistic estimates to some of these.
Okay.
So now that we have some different time estimates on each of these work items, we can use our quick
filter that we just created to very quickly find the work that has an estimate of over three hours.
So these are some of the larger work items here in our backlog.
Of course, your team's needs will be different than mine, but hopefully now the gears are starting
to turn for how you can customize your teams board.
And you can always come back in here to add more quick filters.
Tweak the configuration to help your team be able to find and track their work as effectively as possible.
Okay, with our board configured, we're about ready for our team's first sprint, so let's walk through
that process in our next video.
See you there.

--- Starting Our First Sprint on a Scrum Board ---

In this video, we'll take everything that we've learned about Scrum Agile boards so far and walk through
the start of our first sprint, and we talked about sprints way back in the Terms and Concepts section.
But as a quick refresher, basically, in agile terms, a sprint is a predetermined amount of time.
So for this example, let's say we have a two week sprint.
On the first day of the sprint, we'll have the sprint meeting.
But before that meeting happens, as the manager, you can save everyone a bit of time by having the
sprint set up in JIRA before everyone gathers up in the meeting.
So let's start by creating a sprint here.
In here, I'm going to go to my board that we've just created, and in the backlog we can create a sprint.
Once we have the sprint created.
I would recommend coming in here first to give this a name and set the dates for the sprint.
So I'm going to rename this maybe the Q3 Summer sprint one and give this a start date so we can start
maybe on the first and then give it an end date, the duration.
Remember, we're doing a two week sprint.
So I'm going to do a two week sprint here.
And we can give this a goal if we want.
Basically this is a description field for the sprint, but something that I found super helpful in my
experience to throw in here is the amount of hours that your team has in the sprint.
That's just for a quick reference.
Again, kind of as a description.
So for example, let's say we're working Monday through Friday, 9 to 5 minus an hour lunch and breaks
meetings, maybe tracking six hours of actual work time per day.
So six hours a day for two weeks, 60 hours for a two week sprint.
But maybe this sprint there's a holiday.
So instead of 60 hours, there's six hours removed one day off.
So we're at nine days.
So basically one week, four days or a total of 54 hours.
So nine days equals one week four days or 54 hours, right?
So just something a quick little description for anybody on our team to be able to see how many hours
of work we're going to track in this sprint.
And we can see where that goal goes right here as just a nice little visual way of seeing very quickly
how many hours we have.
And now that means, okay, we have 54 hours of work items that we need to put on this sprint.
Okay.
Now we're ready for the sprint meeting itself.
And we learned about how this meeting goes in the Terms and concepts section as well, long before we
were even inside of JIRA.
But as a quick refresher, usually sprints are an ongoing cycle, so a typical sprint meeting starts
by doing a retrospective on the sprint that just ended.
But you have to start somewhere, right?
So in this example, it's our first sprint without a previous one to talk about yet.
Oh, and as a little tip from my experience, another way that you can help speed up the sprint meeting
itself is for everyone to already have the work items created in JIRA that they plan on working on for
the next sprint, as well as their time estimations for how long they think it'll take.
Or if your team is using story points, you can do that as well.
That'll just help speed up the meeting itself.
Kind of like how we created the sprint before bringing everyone into the meeting.
But in the meeting, it's a good chance to review all of that and then discuss any new priorities and
work to be done.
Once everyone is gathered around for the meeting, we can pull up JIRA and go around the room to discuss
each person's work for the next sprint.
So let's start our sprint meeting with Eldora so we can quickly filter any work assigned to her in the
backlog.
Here we can see we have a couple.
Oh, we still have our quick filter on here.
So let's turn that off.
We can see all of the work items that are assigned to Eldora in the backlog.
And the goal here is to decide what work Eldora needs to do in the next sprint.
As you recall, when we set up the two week sprint day off for the holiday, that means we need 54 hours
of work for Eldora to do, and everyone on the team gets to see what everyone else is working on that
helps promote a much more open atmosphere so that no one on the team is working in silos.
Now, probably the fastest way to add a bunch of work to our sprint is this cool little feature right
here in Jira that just lets us drag down work from the top in the backlog.
So another quick tip we can drag down.
We can see the estimate being added here, right?
So we can see, okay, this is three days and 30 minutes worth of work based on the estimates that Eldora
has put in to these work items.
So with that in mind, another quick tip for speeding up your sprint meetings is when your team members
go through the process of adding the work into JIRA, put their work at the top of the backlog that
they want to do on the next sprint, because that way when we drag down, it's going to add in things
from the top.
A quick way to do that if we were to select one of these items, if you hit S and T, as in syn to top.
Watch what happens.
You can see that work item gets sent to the top and it works the other way too.
If you do S and B, as in send to the bottom, it'll send that work item to the bottom.
So it's just a quick way of being able to organize this list.
And that way we can just drag this down to add in the work that we want Eldora to do very quickly.
And it works the other way too.
We can drag this to remove those items from the backlog here.
Or of course, we can manually come in, click and drag in order to add things in to the sprint for
Eldora.
And this right here, down here at the bottom is why I found it helpful to break down the days in that
sprint goal that we can see right here.
It's just a really quick way of being able to decipher, okay, we have nine days worth of work that
we need for Eldora.
Currently we have two days in an hour.
So really we need to add more work for Eldora to do.
so if we were to add all of this, okay, even this is not quite enough.
So really, we're only less than halfway filled with all Dora's sprint.
And as we can see, we don't have 54 hours of work for Dora to do added to this sprint because we don't
have all of those work items created.
So at this point, we would need to add in work for Dora to do actually creating new work items.
And we've looked at the process of creating work items, so we don't need to redo that.
But this is a good example of what I talked about earlier, where it would save a lot of time to already
have all Dora's work created before we get into the meeting.
So we're not creating workout in for Dora in the middle of the meeting.
I'm not going to take the time to do that in this video, but you get the idea for how we can break
down the hours for the sprint.
And once we have all of Dora's work in the sprint, then it's time for the next person.
In this case, it's Helen's turn.
So we filter by Helen and we go through the same process.
Okay, now we need nine days or 54 hours worth of work for Helen.
And if we pull this in, we can see.
Oh, okay.
We actually have a little bit more than that.
So let's pull off some of these.
So we have.
It looks like we're going for one week four days.
So it looks like right around here is a full sprint for Helen.
And now what we could do actually is we could take these.
And this is where we can have this discussion in the sprint meeting and say, okay, well Helen has
too many things in her backlog.
Eldora doesn't have enough.
Are these things items that Eldora could take, take on and then she could put them on her sprint?
So we can reassign those to her.
And then add those into her sprint, Just like that.
Now, just as some quick tips for how to navigate on this screen, it works.
Just like you would expect.
We can select multiple items you can control click or command.
If you're on a mac and select multiple items, drag them back to the backlog.
If you want to remove from the sprint or drag them to the sprint, organize things however you want
you can.
You can also come in and hold down shift and click.
In order to do multiples, you can use the checkboxes.
There's a lot of different ways to select these work items.
And then as you can see, we're moving them all at once once we have them selected.
So it's just a quick way of being able to add or remove items from our sprint.
So I'm going to clear that selection there.
Of course in the sprint meeting not everything is going to happen this quickly as in this example.
Sometimes we want to slow things down and actually talk about each individual work item.
Are these actually the right things to be working on for the next sprint?
Are these time estimates accurate?
So Eldora might have said that this is going to take an hour.
But you know, maybe she misunderstood what this work item was.
And we have that discussion.
Actually this isn't really that big of a deal.
This is probably only going to take you something like 30 minutes to get done.
But this one actually is a little bit longer.
So this one's probably going to take you a little bit more.
Right.
So you could say maybe a day and three hours or something like that and add a little bit more time to
it.
So go through each work item and have that discussion to make sure that once the sprint is started,
everybody agrees.
Yes, this is the most important work that needs to get done in the next sprint.
And when you're happy with all of the work that's going to get done on the sprint, the last part of
the sprint meeting is to actually start the sprint.
So once we start this sprint now, everything is going to be in the active sprint.
So to recap, in this video we got an overview of how we can start our teams first sprint.
Obviously, a lot of the work and details on your side are going to be different than mine, but as
you're in the room with your teams for sprint, I would highly encourage you to take notes for how you
can become a better manager and run their next sprint.
Take yourself through a little retrospective just for yourself to make the next sprint meeting more
effective.
What went well?
What didn't go well?
What can I improve for the next sprint meeting?
Going through that process as you get started with sprints with your team can be a great way to make
sure that you're improving your own skills as a manager to help your team be more effective.
With the first sprint over, it's time to get the work done.
In our example, that's two weeks, but in our next video, we'll look at what the day to day workflow
can look like and how we'll complete our sprint once it's done.
See you then.

--- Day-to-Day Workflow of a Sprint with Stand-ups in Jira ---

In our last video, we learned how to start a sprint.
In this video, we'll walk through what the day to day of sprint can look like.
So here's where we left off.
And right away we can see JIRA has grouped the work on the board by stories.
That's because of how we had configured the Swimlanes on the board itself.
Of course, as we also learned earlier in the last section, any user can turn off that display right
here or adjust that however they want if they want it to be a group by assignees to see that.
Of course, we can also do that here as well, to show just the work that we're logged in as.
Helen.
So just the work that Helen is working on for this sprint.
Now in our example, we're doing a two week sprint.
So in those two weeks, each day, each team member is in charge of deciding what work they're going
to tackle.
Of course, if there are higher priority items, those will probably need to get tackled first.
And that's also something to talk about in the sprint meeting if there's something that needs to get
done right away.
But generally speaking, the idea is for each team member to own their work.
They know what to do and how to do it.
So let them figure out the best time to get it done within the sprint.
Like we can see, this is a high priority item right here.
And personally this is just my own preference, but I like to take the high priority items and just
arrange them at the top.
So I know that that's the first work that I need to get done.
So we could even hit S and T to send to the top for that as well.
Let me give myself a little bit more room here.
Close that.
So we have this one.
Here's T same with this.
There we go okay.
So we have our high priority items at the top.
And then as we learned earlier, the concept of sprints and agile methodology is to take the work item
from left to right, one column at a time until it's completed.
Right.
So we're actually going to be working on this, you know, as it's in progress in review until it's
finally done over here on the right hand side.
Now, another agile concept that we learned about earlier is the daily standup.
That's a quick refresher.
This is a concept from agile methodology that's basically like a little mini sprint each morning.
Unlike the full sprint, though, these daily morning meetings are called standup because they're supposed
to be so fast that no one even needs to sit down.
So basically, the idea is for each team member to answer these three questions in just a couple minutes.
What did you do yesterday?
What will you do today?
And what, if any, blockers might prevent that from happening?
As the team manager, the last question is an especially great one to help you know how you can clear
roadblocks for your team.
So here in JIRA, the standup interface can be found right here.
Three little dots.
Start the standup right.
So with this interface we can do this at the start of each day.
So here in Jira standup interface basically JIRA is going to give us a random order for which team member
goes first.
So this is saying Helen goes first.
We can randomize this, shuffle this around if you want.
Or we can click and drag and say, actually, you know, we want Helen to go last.
There's only two members on our team in this example.
So randomizing is not super random.
But the basic concept here is okay, it's Helen's turn to go first.
And so we start the two minute timer because again this is a stand up.
It's not a really long meeting.
And we go through okay.
What did you work on yesterday.
So for Helen she worked on this yesterday.
Were there any issues that you came across or you know anything to bring up?
If not, what will you do today?
And then we can drag over the work that Helen's going to start doing today.
So maybe all of these high priority items are on the list for Helen to do today.
And then are there any roadblocks, if any, does are there any roadblocks that Helen thinks would keep
her from being able to get this done today?
If so, jot those down.
Talk about those as a team.
Is there any way to overcome those?
Have that sort of discussion.
We don't have to use the full two minutes, but JIRA will keep the timer going for us so we know when
to cut this off so the meeting doesn't run too long.
Remember, it's a stand up.
If something does come up that needs to be a different meeting and a different time, so be it.
But the timer helps eliminate scope creep for this meeting.
And as the timer ticks down by default, we're going to hear a little ticker here.
So I'm going to speed up just a little bit until the end.
We can hear that little ticker.
And there we go.
You can start to hear that ticking being like okay 10s, it's time to start wrapping this up.
And then at the very end.
There we go.
Helen's time is up, and now it's time for Eldora to walk through that same process.
You can see now we're looking at Eldora work okay.
What is Eldora going to work on today.
And we go through that same process for Eldora.
You can see the next person's time has begun.
Talk about that for two minutes.
What did you work on yesterday?
What will you work on today?
What, if any, roadblocks do you see preventing you from accomplishing what you plan on doing today?
And then at the end of the stand up, we can close out of this to get back to the regular board.
And everyone gets to work.
So everyone has their work now in progress for what they're going to start working on that day.
And then as Helen is working on this throughout the day, of course, the same process, take it from
left to right until it's actually done.
You'll notice that when we drag it to done, JIRA will automatically set this work item as resolved,
which is what this means when it's crossed out.
If we were to pull it back for any reason, you can see okay, it's not been resolved now.
So that's really what that means.
When it's crossed out.
There's a resolution that applied to this.
And the resolution is actually something that we can filter by real quick.
If we come in here.
You can see the resolution for any of these right.
So these are the ones that have been resolved.
So those have been completed.
And then for Helen in her day to day, once that is done start working on the next work item.
Right.
The next one that was planned to work on that morning.
Take that through until it's actually done.
Of course, that's an ideal situation where there are no roadblocks, as we talked about in the standup
and in the sprint, sometimes there are roadblocks that come up, things that come up that keep us from
getting work done.
So when that happens, JIRA has a few cool things that we can do.
So let's say we're working on this work item.
And actually, you know what?
There's another work item that needs to get completed before we can actually get this one done.
I'm going to I'm going to collapse the menu here just so we can see a little bit easier on the board.
So what we can do is we can link another item and say, okay, this is blocked by we can pick from any
of these and your JIRA administrator can customize what these all are.
But we can say this is blocked by another work item.
So basically saying okay, this work item needs to get done first before this work item is going to
be able to be completed.
And we can see that at any time on the board insights and see, oh, you know what?
This is actually dependent on another work item.
So we're not going to be able to get this done until this one is done.
And that's one of those roadblocks I was talking about where you can communicate either with somebody
else.
So this is actually from a different project, probably from a different team.
And so that's communication with that other team.
As a manager.
It can be reaching out to that other team and be like, how can we get that unblocked so that Helen
can get her work done?
And then once that actually is completed, we can come in, unlink that, and now Helen can go on and
get her work done.
Now, in the day to day, if you do get everything done that you had planned to get done that day,
there's nothing wrong with pulling something else over.
Maybe this quick little 15 minute ticket is something that Helen wants to get done in this day, and
then maybe she's working on it.
And you know what?
Actually, there is something that I need to, uh, raise attention to so we can add a flag.
What should the description be?
And this is about a typo, and I added a typo in there by accident.
There we go.
So this is flagged.
And now when we have our next stand up, if we start our stand up again we can see oh you know what
this is flagged.
So this is one of those things.
This is something that maybe not an entire maybe not blocked by something else.
But this is just, you know what?
I really need to bring attention to this in the stand up.
Or let's have a conversation about this, and we can have that conversation in the stand up.
And then once we have that got it resolved, there we go.
And then we can go on about our day and getting all of that work done.
So hopefully you're starting to get the sense for how this cycle repeats itself each day to get in the
rhythm of getting stuff done in a very efficient manner, but also in a way that's very open.
So everyone on the team knows what's going on and can help each other get stuff done if needed.
In our example, the sprint lasts for two weeks, so as work gets completed for those couple of weeks,
eventually it will be time for the next sprint meeting.
So when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll walk through how to complete this
sprint and start the whole sprint cycle all over again with the next sprints.
Work on the board.
See you there.

--- Completing Our First Sprint and Starting a New One ---

In the past few videos, we've walked through each step of our first sprint.
In this video, we'll wrap up our first sprint and start the ongoing sprinting cycle by kicking off
our next sprint.
Now, as a manager, I would recommend creating the next sprint before everyone meets up.
You recall how we did this for our first sprint two, so that way, by the time our team showed up for
the meeting for the sprint planning meeting, we already have a space for them to add new work.
Fortunately, since we've walked through this before, we can move a little bit faster.
So let's create a sprint.
So this is Q3, Q3, Summer two.
We can edit that if we need to.
If we want to edit the title, the date, the time, it's two weeks.
There we go.
I'm going to add in the sprint goal similar to what we did before.
But this time there's no holiday.
So we're working the full ten days or five business days per week.
That's 60 hours.
There we go.
So this time we have a full two week sprint.
You can see the difference here 54 hours versus 60 hours.
So that means that we need to have 60 hours worth of work for each person, right?
So now with the next sprint created in the backlog, we're ready for the sprint meeting.
Let's hop into the active sprint, because now that we've done a sprint, we can do a retrospective
on this last sprint.
And you can see there's a couple items that have been added.
Now when we complete the sprint here, if you have a confluence license, JIRA will let you tie in an
actual retrospective page template over there.
That's a completely separate app and outside the scope of JIRA that we're doing today.
So you don't really have to use confluence for this process.
That's because this part of the sprint agenda is basically like the standup that we've done each morning,
except without the two minute restriction.
Obviously, you don't want any meeting to go too long, but this is an opportunity to reflect on the
past sprint and try to make iterative improvements for the next one.
So going around the room, each team member has the chance to answer these three questions about the
last sprint.
What went well?
It's a great chance to celebrate the wins from the sprint, and if it's helpful to look at the board,
we can do that.
Look at these and see what went well with these?
What didn't go well.
So we can see there's actually a couple work items on here.
So maybe when it's Laura's turn right, we can answer.
We can see this work didn't get done.
What happened?
Maybe it was something more extreme, like getting sick.
No one can predict that.
Or maybe her computer crashed or some technical issue.
Or maybe it was something as simple as some of the other work took longer than she expected for some
reason.
There's nothing wrong with any of that, but it leads right into the next question what can we do better
next time?
Being able to predict time estimations on work is something that's extremely difficult to do.
So this isn't about getting everything perfect next time, but what's 1 or 2 things that we can do to
try to make those estimates a little more accurate?
For example, in my case, I found tracking my time outside of JIRA really helped me realize how long
work actually took compared to how long I thought it took.
That helped me come up with more accurate time estimations.
And then finally, once everyone has had a chance to do the retrospective on the last sprint, it's
time to look ahead to the next one.
So here in JIRA, when we complete this sprint, you can see these open work items.
These two open work items right here are automatically going to be moved to the next sprint that we
created.
So when we complete this, there we go.
Now we do not have an active sprint anymore, but in our backlog we can see those two work items have
been added to that new sprint that we created.
And in here, the process is exactly the same that we learned a couple videos ago when we started our
first sprint.
Basically, we're going to come in and say, okay, for Eldora, what's the work that she's going to
do?
And ideally, she's already planned this out and we can have discussions around the right work to do
in the next sprint.
Then we can use the sprint goal here to see if that line.
Oh, actually, I'm not sure why I wrote one week in five days.
That's exactly the same as two weeks when we're working five business days a week.
We can see we have two weeks of work for Eldora, so that's the right amount, which means we can move
on to Helen's Sprint and do the same thing.
And it looks like we're adding a little bit too much for her, so let's pull that back a bit.
You pull in an extra maybe pull in this one here.
There we go.
About 30 minutes short.
But that's that's pretty pretty close.
And then once we're happy with the work that's going to get done in the next sprint, again same process.
We're going to actually start this sprint.
And then it's time for everybody to start getting that work done.
So now you can see how the sprint cycle repeats itself and keeps everyone improving and getting better
each time.
Now, what happens when we're in the middle of a sprint and we get interrupted by new work?
I'm sure we've all had that happen.
We're in the middle of work, and someone comes with something that they need us to get done, and it's
always the highest priority to them, right?
But in Scrum Agile, we don't want to make a habit of adding work mid sprint.
So let's move on to our next video where we'll learn how to handle adding work mid sprint in JIRA.
See you there!

--- Adding New Work in the Middle of a Sprint ---

Sometimes during a sprint we need to add new work, or someone else in our organization wants us to
add new work while we're in the middle of a sprint.
In this video, we'll walk through what to do in that scenario.
Let's start with the basic scrum agile concept of sprints, because the whole point is to fill up all
of our time.
It's already been accounted for.
So when our team is using a scrum workflow, by default, new work does not get added to the sprint.
Instead it simply gets added to the backlog.
So if we create a new work item, maybe something like this, make sure it's assigned to our team.
Maybe actually assign it to Helen.
Create that work item.
By default, it's not going to be added to our active sprint.
It's going to show up in the backlog.
Right.
So it's going to show up at the very bottom right here of our backlog.
And then in the next sprint, we can decide whether or not to add that to our active sprint for the
next one.
But there's always times when people want your team to tackle their work.
Get it done right away.
In my experience, it usually comes from outside the team since they're not familiar with the sprint
at all, so they don't know what's already being worked on.
So I strongly recommend that you urge your team to ask something along these lines when they're asked
to add something mid sprint.
Can I add this to my backlog, or is this high enough priority to replace other work on the sprint?
Everyone thinks their work is the highest priority, of course, but one of the core aspects of Scrum
Agile is that we've already allocated all the hours for this sprint for each team member, and no one
can make new time.
So if new work gets added mid sprint, that means something else has to come off.
This might require a meeting with the team member, you, the manager or whoever is asking for the work
to be added.
But in my experience, a lot of times when people realize that they're asking for their work to replace
something else, they're okay with it going into backlog.
And then you can just add it in the next sprint.
But in the real world, sometimes there really are high enough priority things that have to be added
mid spring.
So let's say this is a high enough item that we want to actually get it done this sprint.
Here's the process for that.
Let's come in.
Let's make sure we add our time estimate.
Let's say this is going to take a couple hours to get this done.
And then we can add it to our sprint.
Now when we do this JIRA is going to give us this little pop up that says, hey, you're changing the
scope of this sprint.
We already agreed how much work we're going to get done.
Are you sure you want to do this?
We can do that.
Click on confirm.
And now that work item is going to show up in the sprint.
So we can see it right down here.
And we can go through the process of working on this.
But what we should do now is remove that same amount of time from the sprint, because now we've added
two extra hours of work to Helen's sprint, even though we already agreed and filled up all of her time.
Right.
So to remove items from the sprint.
It's the same process.
We just come back here.
Let's find two hours of work filtered by Helen.
Um, maybe this one right here.
Let's just drag this off into the backlog.
And again, Jira is going to say, hey, you're changing the scope of the sprint.
We already agreed on everything, but because we added two hours we can take two hours off, confirm.
And then of course we could add that back in the next sprint.
But we've changed the work item.
To be this one that we just added mid sprint.
Of course this is going to show up in our reports.
Now another quick way that we can do this.
If you don't want to come into the backlog we can just click on these three little dots.
Click on remove from sprint.
And that's going to do that as well.
Again we're going to get this little uh indication that says hey the scope has been changed, but you'll
notice we don't get that confirmation.
So it really kind of depends on your preferred workflow.
I like to have that little pop up box because it's a reminder that says, okay, we're actually changing
this scope of our sprint by this action.
Of course, this will show up in our reports here in JIRA.
So if you notice a lot of work being moved on and off mid sprint, then it might be a good thing to
talk about in the next sprint retrospective, because actually changing the scope of a sprint is something
that should be more of the exception rather than the rule when you're following a scrum agile workflow.
But that leads me right into the next few videos, because some teams don't work well with sprints and
instead prefer a Kanban agile workflow.
So in the next few videos, we'll walk through a lot of the same sort of things that we've covered with
the Scrum Agile boards in Jira, but instead we'll be using a Kanban agile workflow.
If that's not something that your team is using, feel free to skip those videos.
But if you're not sure which workflow is best for your team, or maybe you're using a Kanban workflow,
then I'll see you in the next video where we'll create a new Kanban board for our team.

--- Creating a Kanban Board with a Backlog ---

And the past few videos, we learned how to create and set up a Scrum Agile board for our team.
In the next few videos, we'll cover a lot of similar features using Jiras, Kanban, Agile Board,
and we'll do that in a way where some teams that I've worked with in the past have used both Kanban
and scrum boards side by side.
But just to be clear up front, I'm not trying to imply that your team has to use both board types.
There's not really a right or wrong workflow, it's really just what works best for your team.
So let's get started by creating our Kanban board.
To do that, we need to come over to the left side menu and open up the project that we want the Kanban
board to live in.
So we can see we already have our scrum board here, but let's create a new Kanban board.
So this is going to be customer service Kanban.
And just like with the scrum board, now we need to tell Jira what to include on the Kanban board.
So we're going to include the same team that we did last time.
This is also going to be the customer service team.
Go ahead and create that board.
Right away we'll notice a big difference between when we created our scrum board and the Kanban board.
When we created the scrum board, there were no work items that showed up because we didn't have an
active sprint going, but because Kanban boards don't work with sprints, all of our work items show
up without having to start a sprint or anything like that.
Now that we have our board created, you might notice that by default in the project navigation, we
don't have a backlog here.
And that's because according to agile methodology, a Kanban workflow doesn't use a backlog.
All of the work items just show up here on the far left column.
And then, like any agile board, we take it from left to right.
But we can cheat that workflow a little bit in JIRA by adding a backlog if we want.
And we'll look at that here in a minute.
But let's hop into our board settings, because there's one key change I want to make to the work items
that show up on our board first.
And a lot of these settings are the same as what we've already looked at on the scrum board, so we
don't need to repeat that like the board name, the location, all that sort of thing.
But I do want to make a change to the filter query to determine what work items show up on the board.
So whenever we're setting up a board in JIRA, it's always good to know the goal of the board.
What do we want this board to do and how will it help our team get stuff done?
Well, the way my organization's customer service team works is either Eldora or Helen, the two members
of the team can often create new work items, but they're not always assigned to them.
So this is what I meant by a workflow where Scrum and Kanban boards can work side by side.
With Kanban board, the customer service team can track all of the work items that they've reported
from customers and how they're assigned to other users across the company.
But then with the scrum board, they can track their own work in sprints.
So that means we need this filter to see anything that the two members of the customer service team
have reported.
And so the change we want to do, we don't want to show things that are assigned to our team because
remember, it could be for others.
We also don't necessarily want it to only be in this one project.
Okay.
So right now the filter is literally showing everything inside of our JIRA installation.
So now I'm going to choose the reporter which is going to be who creates those work items can be either
Helen or Eldora.
Okay.
So let's save this filter.
Now with this saved we can go back to our board and see the differences.
So now we have a lot of other work items that are showing up.
And you'll notice that not all of them are assigned to Helen or Eldora, but they are the work items
that have been created by them so they can track the work for other people.
And now that we can see there's a lot more work items here on our board now, it would make a lot of
sense to come in and add that backlog.
So let's come back into our board settings.
Now in our board settings, here's something I want to point out actually, because JIRA has this nice
little feature to help us optimize our filter queries, but in my experience, it's always a good idea
to double check them because I've noticed that sometimes these suggestions aren't always right.
So if we come in here and edit this filter, we can see the error that we're getting.
Is that okay.
This is actually should be a closed parentheses is what it's expecting if we make this a little bit
larger.
But this parentheses right here shouldn't be there.
So we can remove that fix this query and then hit enter to search.
And now we can see this query is working as expected.
So let's save this.
And then go back to our board.
Or we can just go to the board settings right here.
And now we're not getting that notification.
So that's just something to be aware of.
If you do see that something like that happen on your side.
Okay.
So actually adding the backlog is over here in layout and columns.
The functionality here is the same as a scrum board where we can control.
Let me move hide this menu just so we can see a little bit easier.
We can control what columns we have, but with a Kanban board because it doesn't have a backlog by default,
we have the ability to turn it on by dropping a status here, we need to tell Jira what status should
be mapped to work items in the backlog.
So let's add the to do status to the backlog.
And now we've enabled our Kanban backlog.
As we can see with this column here, this column isn't going to show up on the board anymore because
we don't have status associated with it.
But we can just go ahead and delete that if we want to as well.
Hop back to the board.
And now we only have our two columns, but we also have a backlog for our Kanban board, where we can
see all of our work items that are in the to do status.
And then as soon as I take one of these and pull it into in progress, it's going to adjust the status
of that work item to the status of this column.
Okay.
So now that we have our board created and set up with the backlog, let's take a break here.
And in our next video we'll continue right along with our boards configuration.
See you there.

--- Configuring Our Kanban Board ---

In our last video, we created a Kanban board and configured it to have a backlog.
In this video, we'll continue right along with the configuration by getting the rest of the board set
up for our team.
As with anything in JIRA, how you configure your agile boards really depends on what your team needs.
In my case, as I mentioned before, my JIRA instance is primarily to track the production process for
my podcast, which is why we learned in the last video.
This Kanban board is for the customer service team that they can use to track the production process
of anything they're reporting.
So let's come into our settings here and bring the menu back over here on the left side.
Come into our columns.
Now when we set these up you'll notice all of these unmapped statuses.
That's because my Kanban boards filter is showing work from across all the projects, from the filter
that we set up in the last video.
But in my case, the customer service team doesn't really need a different column for every single status.
They'll just want an overall look at where in the production process the work is that they're reporting.
So let's simplify these.
So the backlog is to do.
And then I'm going to rename this to pre-production.
And in pre-production, we're going to have in progress.
And I'm going to pull over the let's hide this so we can have a little bit more room to work with.
Again, I'm going to have this status and this status.
As pre-production.
I'm going to add another column, and this column is going to be for the actual production.
Move this over.
So pre-production production and for production we're going to have writing and recording the actual
production process and then add another column.
And this is going to be post-production.
Again move this over.
So done is always going to be on the right hand side.
The far right hand side.
Again the agile workflow going from left to right.
So in post-production we're going to have our in review QA editing and then the actual publishing process.
Oops.
Pull that over here.
There we go.
And then of course we have done on the far right hand side.
All right.
So we have that set up.
Let's look what our board looks like.
Now there's one more change I want to make to this board as I'm looking at this.
Because the purpose of this board again is to track the work that the customer service team has reported
for other users in the organization.
The scrum board is where the customer service team is going to actually do track their own work.
Right?
So I don't really need to see the customer service team work on this board.
So let's come back into our board settings and edit this filter.
And come in here and remove the customer service project.
So that way on the board all we're going to see is the work items that they've actually reported and
their current status.
So we can see a lot of these or most of these are actually just in the backlog and actually haven't
had any work started on them.
There's just a couple of them that are actually in progress.
Great.
Now that we've got this all set up, let's move on to our next video where we'll look at how the day
to day workflow will go with this Kanban board.

--- Day-to-Day Workflows with a Kanban Board ---

In our past few videos, we walked through setting up a Kanban board for our team.
In this video, we'll look at the typical day to day workflow with the board.
And just to reiterate this one more time, your team specific workflow is going to be different than
mine, of course.
And let's start with a quick refresher for how we set up the board to complement our customer service
team's workflow.
When a customer, or in my case, a podcast listener, submits something that they need to be fixed,
or a new request that can come through any number of ways email, social media, contact, form, an
automated JIRA collector on the website, and so on.
Then the customer service team, either Eldora or Helen, creates a corresponding work item in JIRA.
But they're not necessarily the ones who are handling the production so that work gets assigned to the
production team.
This is an example of that team, the production team's Kanban board, where you can see all the different
columns laid out.
So to see how this all works together, here I am logged in as another user in the organization with
a completely different agile board than production team has started work on one of these work items,
let's say.
Okay, so this work item here that's been reported by our customer service team, the production team
is starting to work on it.
so now it's in the writing status.
If we hop back to the customer service team board, we can see this automatically getting updated on
the customer service board, because it's that work item has transitioned to another status.
So we're just monitoring that with the customer service team board here, so they can keep an eye on
the status of what's being reported.
And actually there's something else we can update on our board to make this a little bit easier because
you can see, okay, it's production, but where in production is this.
Like we don't know that it's actually being written.
So let's come into our board settings and change the card layout, and let's add in the status to the
Kanban board.
So now if we go back to our board we can see okay.
Now we can see it's in production.
But this is the current status of that work item right there.
Just a really quick way of being able to see what that work's item status is.
And now as the production team is working on this, if we were to take this over, okay, it's ready
to record now and then it's in editing as they're working on this particular work item.
We can say, okay, now it's in QA.
Those are just multiple statuses on the same column.
And then when you drag it in, it determines what actual status to add it to.
Of course, you can always change the status here as well.
So you can see that status changing.
And on the customer service board that's going to automatically update.
So the customer service team can be aware of the work items that they're reporting and what their current
status is as other teams are actually working on it.
And now it's your turn.
We've learned a lot about both Scrum and Kanban agile boards over the past few videos, and even though
the workflows on my side won't necessarily be the same as your teams workflows on your side, hopefully
the gears are starting to turn for how you can take advantage of these powerful features in JIRA to
help your team organize and track their work ultimately so everyone on the team can be more efficient
at work.
In our next video, we'll shift gears away from the agile boards and JIRA to learn about another way
that we can help our team get stuff done more effectively by using dashboards.
See you there!

--- Creating, Sharing, and Customizing Dashboards ---

In this video, we'll learn how to create and share dashboards with our team.
So let's start by creating our dashboard.
So come in to the left menu, come under dashboards and just click on the plus to create a new one.
And this dashboard let's have it be for tracking our listener requests.
Just a single place where we can track all of our listener requests.
Now, in my experience, one of the most common issues that people have with dashboards is this little
bit right here, because when we adjust the permissions, we actually have to add them instead of just
selecting them.
And you'll notice that we don't have teams in here.
We do have groups.
We haven't talked about groups yet that kind of like the legacy version of teams, groups that have
been in JIRA for a long time.
But there are enough differences in how they function, and it makes sense for them to both be there
because groups are actually more back end user permissions.
So we're going to learn more about groups when we get into the administrative side.
But for this dashboard, let's give anyone in our organization the ability to view it.
So I'm going to choose organization.
And instead of just hitting save we actually want to add that permission to this dashboard.
And you'll notice how this permissions has now been added.
And we can continue adding more if we want to.
For example, we could make this dashboard public for the internet to see.
We can do that with dashboards.
It's really cool.
Although it is worth pointing out that for editing permissions, you can't let the public edit your
dashboard.
Not that you'd want to do that anyway, but JIRA won't even let that happen.
So for this, I'm going to choose the customer service project, so anybody in the customer service
project will be able to edit this dashboard, and anybody in the organization will be able to view it.
So let's go ahead and save this.
And that will create our dashboard okay.
So now that we have our dashboard created is empty by default.
So we'll need to do some customization to it.
But basically the way dashboards work let me hide this menu here.
So it's a little bit easier to see.
So this is the dashboard itself.
And then we can add gadgets to it.
Now there's a ton of different gadgets that we can add to our dashboard.
I would encourage you to take some time to sift through all of these, to see which of them you might
want to use for your team.
But one of the most common gadgets I've seen used is something like the simple filter results like this
here.
So we add that in, we can see that gets added over here.
And the filter results is exactly what it sounds like.
It's the results of a filter.
But actually let's change this layout to just be one column.
So I'm going to switch this to a one column layout.
So this is all the way across.
Now we just need to tell JIRA what filter it is that we want the results of.
So let's find our listener request filter.
And this is one that I've already created.
We looked at how to create filters.
Basically this is just looking for a custom field that I've created to tag.
Whether or not a work item is a listener request.
Go ahead and hit save.
And now we can see all of the listener requests here on our dashboard.
But what's really cool about dashboards is that because they're based on filters, we can visualize
them in a lot of different ways.
It doesn't just have to be a list here of the results.
We could actually come in.
I'm going to switch this back to a two column.
Maybe let's do something like this.
And then let's add in a pie chart.
Move this over to this side.
And if we use the same filter as this over here, but we can come in here and change this.
It looks like it's getting cut off.
But let me go ahead and select the status for this.
Hit save.
And now we can see not only a list of all the listener requests, but we can see their current status.
So 74% of them are done, 25% to do.
And as you can probably guess, because this was set up so that anyone in the organization can view
it, this can be shared with anyone on the team.
So if we come over to logged in as somebody else and I'm logged in as Eldora.
Come to our dashboards and find the listener request dashboard.
There we go.
And we can see those gadgets showing up.
Really, really cool stuff that we can do.
And because Eldora is part of the customer service team, she can actually come in here and edit it
and be like, actually over here, let's change this.
So all I want to see is the summary just to clean it up a little bit.
There we go.
So now all we see is the summary.
And we can see the status of all of our listener requests.
And not only that, but another big benefit of dashboards is being able to use them as a wallboard.
So let's come in here and configure this.
And let's say okay I want to show listener requests.
And work in progress, which is another dashboard that I already have.
And let's change this to maybe 10s so we don't have to wait nearly as long.
We can display in a random order if we want.
Hit save.
Now if we come in here and view this slideshow, this is perfect.
So for example, I've worked at companies where we'll have a few different dashboards built and then
just pull this up in a browser, go full screen on a TV on the office wall, and everyone can get a
real time, real world visual display of the status of work, sprint, burndown, or whatever sort of
information we need to see.
Okay, so in this video we learned how to create a dashboard, how to hook up an existing filter to
the dashboard using gadgets.
We also learned how to control the viewing and editing permissions, as well as how to set up dashboards
as automated wallboards that can easily be displayed for the whole team to see.
I'd encourage you to go through all these other gadgets and set up a dashboard for your team to display
the relevant reports and information that your team needs to see.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll learn about some other helpful reports
here in JIRA.

--- Helpful Reports for Managers in Jira ---

In this video, we'll go through a couple of the most common reports that I've seen managers use for
their teams.
Let's start by going to the reports in the project navigation.
So let's hop into a project here.
I'm actually going to hop into a project that has more work actually done on it than the one that we've
been using in this section, because that was a new project that I created just for this tutorial.
So let's hop into this guy here and come into our understanding Jira board.
Now over here, if we come into our reports, as we learned in the last section, the reports that we
see here are tied to the agile board.
And in this case, because I'm going to my scrum Agile board.
That's why we see a lot of reports dealing with sprints.
For example, one of the most common reports for sprints is this burndown chart.
Burndown charts are not unique to JIRA.
It's a common agile report that we can use here in JIRA to keep track of our sprints.
So basically, the way a burndown chart goes, I'm going to change this to original time estimate,
because that's what I'm actually using to track.
I'm going to turn off the non-working days as well, just a little bit easier to see.
And then let's hide this menu just so we can see this a little bit easier.
So basically the way a burndown chart works is from left to right.
So this is the very beginning.
And you can see this is where I was talking about.
When you add work to the sprint it's changing the scope.
So I've actually added after the sprint started I added more work to it after the sprint started.
So this is the guideline here.
And ideally you would start with how much work you have in the sprint.
And then by the time the sprint is over you have zero hours left.
You've done everything.
That's the guideline.
That's the ideal sprint.
And then this red line is the remaining values, right.
So we can see this here.
And this particular sprint hasn't gone super well.
You can see there's still a lot left on the board that we're going to want to talk about in the next
sprint meeting.
And then down below.
This is basically just a running list of all the different things.
So we can see.
This is where I was talking about where we can see these are scope change.
Remember the little pop up when we added work mid sprint.
This is where we can start to see you know what.
There's been a lot of stuff that's been added mid sprint.
Maybe we need to have a conversation around that and see why things are being added mid sprint, why
we're not doing it in the sprint meeting and not able to predict some of that a little bit better.
And actually another great way of being able to see this rather than the time if we just change it to
the issue count.
Remember work items used to be called issues.
This is another example of Atlassian hasn't quite updated the terminology here yet, but the concept
is the same and we can see very, very quickly.
Okay, yep, there's a spike of issues or work items that have been added in the middle of the sprint.
So again, this is a great way of being able to see what's been added or removed and being able to start
to have some of those conversations so we can get better at predicting and being able to get stuff done
more effectively.
Another very helpful report is the control chart.
So let's find that.
And of course, you can read more about this on your own time as well.
And with this report, we can see right away where some of the outliers are.
So for example, this one right here, it's in production for 15 weeks.
No wonder it's an outlier.
This just helps us have some better discussions with our team, so we can know what the roadblocks are
that kept this work from getting done.
And in this case, I happen to know that this particular work item was waiting for some copy requirements
from sponsor.
So I was waiting for a while before I could actually complete this one.
Keeping track of stuff like this can help clear roadblocks, as well as making sure that work is removed
from the board to declutter it so our team only sees what they really need to focus on.
Now, this control chart is something that's available for any agile board in JIRA, not just a scrum
agile board.
So if we would come to another project here and go to this is a Kanban board, here you can see this
is Kanban board.
If you come into the reports and as you can see there's a ton of other reports in here as we learn numerous
times throughout this course, because the filters that drive our agile boards can be different, the
work items on those boards will be different.
And then by extension, the data that we see on our reports that's tied to those work items is also
going to be different, right?
So this control chart looks very different than the one that we just looked at on the scrum board.
Because the work items on that board are different and so are the reports.
And with that we've come to an end of this section.
I'd really encourage you to take some time, look through the reports in your organizations JIRA installation
to see what the key metrics are that you need to track and help keep your team aware of what's going
on.
And if you notice that there's something that needs to improve, maybe that'll be a filter that you
can attach to a gadget on your team's dashboard so everyone can get a visual cue of how they're doing,
and then you can celebrate as a team in your stand ups and sprints as those numbers are improved over
time.
Now, in the next section, we're going to learn how to use Jiras overall administrative back end.
So when you're ready, I'll see you there.

--- Introduction to the Jira for Administrators Section ---

Hello and welcome to this section covering JIRA for administrators.
In this section we'll be logged in as a global administrator in JIRA, and we'll be building on all
of the knowledge that we learned in the previous sections.
So if you haven't seen those, I would highly recommend checking out all of those first, because it
really benefits you to know how JIRA works for end users before getting into the administration areas.
And even if you're not a JIRA administrator yourself, this section can be beneficial for you to get
a better understanding of how JIRA works under the hood.
We'll start by learning how to create and set up the company managed project that we used in the JIRA
for managers section.
We'll learn how users work, understanding what schemes are and how to use them, creating custom work
types and making sure that they're in the right projects.
Working with screens, statuses, workflows, resolution, custom fields.
Who we have a ton to cover in this section.
So when you're ready, let's get started.
In the next video where we'll learn how to create a company managed project in JIRA.

--- Creating a Company-Managed Project ---

In the last section, we worked with a company managed project and a manager with administrative permissions
over that project.
In the next couple of videos, we'll learn how to set that up, starting with creating a new company
managed project.
Now, before we begin, I want to show you where we're at right now because if you recall, in the Geography
Manager section, we were logged in as Helen, the manager of the customer service team, who has administrative
permissions over the customer service project.
Even though that was in the last section as of recording this video, that hasn't been set up yet,
which is why things are looking a little empty for Helen right now, because the customer service project
does not exist yet.
Because I wanted to show how to set up those permissions.
And in order to do that, we have to be a global JIRA administrator.
So let's start by logging in as my global administrator account and creating a customer service company
managed project.
So I'm going to come over to projects click on plus.
Now JIRA does have a lot of templates that we can use.
Atlassian even has some bundles that can be a great way to create multiple company managed projects
at once.
Or we can use any of these pre-existing templates.
You can see there's a ton of them here that we can sift through.
The key thing to keep in mind with these templates is to look at the Atlassian app that they're using.
Right.
So you can see this is using Jira Service Management, which if you recall from the Terms and Concepts
section, I am not using JIRA Service Management license for this course.
So that's why it says try this template, because this would basically kick off a free trial to a new
license to Jira Service Management, which would change your bill once that free trial was over.
So if that's not something you're wanting to do, just make sure that you're only using the templates
with Atlassian apps that you actually have a license to.
In my case, I'm using a base JIRA license.
So another quick way to see these templates is by organizing them by the product over here on the left
side.
So I'm using the base JIRA license and we can see the templates that use just Jira.
So basically if we use this Kanban template behind the scenes, what Jira does is it creates a company
managed project with a Kanban agile board.
And the same goes for the scrum template.
But as we've already learned throughout this course, you can create multiple agile boards in the same
company managed project.
So any of these templates can be customized further.
But let's start with the scrum template.
You'll notice it does not say try this template.
It's use template because we have a JIRA license.
And next we need to tell JIRA what type of project this is.
If you recall when we created a team managed project earlier in this course, the company managed project
button was grayed out because we didn't have permissions to do that.
You have to be a global JIRA administrator to create a company managed project, which is why we're
doing it now.
So let's give this a name our customer service project.
It is a company managed project.
That's the template we're using.
Since company managed projects can share entities, we can have Jira pull those over from an existing
project.
Now, I'm not going to do that for this course, because I would kind of defeat the purpose of learning
where to go to change permissions.
But I want to point this out because it really can speed up your process when you're creating new projects.
I do want to make one change here though.
I'm going to change the key just to be a little bit easier.
You can see what that's going to do for the work items here.
Go ahead and click on next and give it a moment.
And our project is created.
Now if you want to fast track setting up your project by adding your team, you can do that here.
Start to customize their roles right here.
But we're going to look at where we can do this in Jiras interface outside of this little post creation
wizard.
So I'm going to skip this.
And similarly, since we're not using any of Atlassian's other apps like Confluence or Bitbucket in
this course, I'm going to skip connecting those to our new project.
But if you are using one or both of those, you can connect them right here.
All right.
And now that we have our project created, we need to set up the permissions for the JIRA for manager
section.
So let's move on to our next video where we'll learn all about permissions in JIRA.

--- Understanding Permissions in Jira ---

In the last video we created the company managed project to use in the last section of this course.
In this video, we'll set up Helen as the administrator of that company managed project.
So she will have permissions to do all the things that we learned about in the JIRA for manager section.
And along the way, we'll learn about a few different places inside JIRA that we can control user permissions.
So the fastest way to set up the permissions for the last section is to add a single user to a single
project.
So let's come over to projects.
And this is in my recent.
So in the three dots come down to project settings.
Or if it's not in the recent go to More projects view all and then find it over here in the project
settings.
And then on the left hand side, we'll come over to people and add Helen to this project.
So let's add in Helen as an administrator.
And if you're looking for how to set up the manager permissions that we used in the last section.
That's pretty much all there is to it.
But there are other layers to permissions in JIRA depending on what you need to do.
So what we just did is what I consider the bottom layer of permissions in JIRA.
We added one user to a single role in a single project.
Next up, we can set up permissions across multiple company managed projects at once, using what JIRA
calls a scheme.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
Let's come up to the settings gear to work items.
And on the left hand side scroll down to find permissions schemes.
So these are the permission schemes and the projects they're associated with.
So if we wanted to customize this let's say we want to turn off the ability for someone to see these
projects.
We can turn off the ability for people to see all of these projects in JIRA.
That is the browse projects permission.
Right?
To be able to browse them.
So let's come in and right now browse projects any logged in user.
Watch what happens when I remove this.
So we remove this permission.
And then I'm going to hop back over to another window here where I'm logged in as Helen again.
And then watch all of these projects.
When I refresh this page, they're going to disappear with the exception of the customer service project.
And the reason for that is because we just set up Helen as an administrator of this project.
She can't browse any of the work items in this project, but because she is an administrator on this
project, she can still see that this project exists.
And the same is true as a global JIRA administrator.
If I'm logged in as Dan now is my global administrator, if I come back over to projects, I can see
that they exist.
But trying to come into these projects is going to give me errors because I don't have permissions to
Machines to actually browse them.
So let's go back to our permissions here.
Permission schemes.
And let's add the browse permission back.
So we can grant permission here for any logged in user to be able to browse.
There we go.
Grant that.
And now if I come back over logged in as Helen.
We can see she can see this project now as well as all of the other projects that disappeared before.
And the same is true as our global administrator.
We can find all of these projects now too.
So I know that example is a bit extreme to turn off visibility for almost all of our projects for everyone
in JIRA, but it's real easy to see how permission schemes can control permissions across multiple projects.
Now, as you saw, there are a lot of other permissions that we can change in here too.
So if we come in here to permissions and grant permissions, we can see all of these different types
of permissions that we can grant.
I'd encourage you to take some time to look through these and see how you can use them on your site.
For example, if you want to be able to give people the ability to manage sprints, right.
So the ability to create sprints, edit them, complete them like we saw in the manager section, we
can grant that permission to, let's say a group.
Let's say let's add to the JIRA administrators group.
Grant that permission with this permission change, we're saying that any users in that JIRA administrators
group, they can also create, edit and overall just manage sprints within any of the projects using
that permission scheme.
Now I do want to point out this group is JIRA administrator, so anyone inside it will have global JIRA
administrative permissions.
So that would mean they'd already have permissions to manage sprints as well.
But we can control permissions separately for anyone in this group very quickly.
Last but certainly not least, there's another layer of permissions in JIRA our global user permissions.
And in the global permissions you'll notice the same JIRA administrators group that we just used.
That is a default group that Jira automatically creates when you set up JIRA.
And then anytime in Jiras interface, when you see that JIRA is asking about adding administrative permissions,
basically that is adding that user to JIRA administrative group.
Actually, this is a good time to take a break here because this introduces another concept that we
haven't talked about yet groups.
Because we can create our own custom groups to help us manage our users a lot better.
And we'll look at that in the next video.

--- How User Management Works in Jira ---

In this video we'll learn how to manage users in JIRA.
So there are two very important things to keep in mind when it comes to users in JIRA.
The first is that users don't actually live inside JIRA itself.
If we come up to settings in the Atlassian administration settings, we can see user management, and
this is going to take us outside of JIRA into the Atlassian administration area.
Atlassian has a lot of different apps, and Jira is their flagship and most popular app.
It's just one of the apps that you can get a license to.
For example, we learned about Confluence Atlassian wiki documentation and knowledge base tool.
Well, the Atlassian handles their licenses is to have users being independent from any single app.
So you're seeing user account works for both Jira and confluence if you want to.
If you have licenses to both of them.
And then as part of being a global JIRA administrator, you will have access to Atlassian's administration
area which includes this user management section.
And that leads right into the second important thing to keep in mind, because you can have as many
users as you want with JIRA.
What you'll be paying for are the active users.
And the first question I get whenever I explain this to someone who is new to Jira says, what is the
point of creating a user if they're not an active user?
Well, there are a number of reasons that you might want that, but probably the most common reason
I've run across in my experience is if there's a user who is no longer on the team, you don't have
to delete their user account, just revoke access.
That way, all their past history and things that they've done inside of Jira is all still there and
tied to their account, but they just don't have access to it anymore and you don't have to pay for
that license.
Adding new users is pretty straightforward.
Just add in their email and then set up whatever role that you want.
So do you want them to be a regular user, or do you want them to have administrative access as well?
And you can see that right in here.
We could add people to multiple Atlassian apps at once if we wanted to.
Or we can come in here and just add a user to JIRA.
We can also add those users to groups right here at the point of inviting them.
But let's circle back to this for a second, because I also want to point out another area here.
Let's X out of this and come into the approve request.
Now I'm going to have to blur out a lot of these for privacy purposes because some students have requested
access to my JIRA installation.
Although as a side note, I'm afraid I cannot give you access to my JIRA installation because as we
just learned, that would make you an active user.
And then I'd have to pay a monthly fee for more additional active users.
And that's just outside the scope of this course.
But I wanted to point this out because as a JIRA administrator yourself, if anyone in your organization
requests access to JIRA, this is where you'll find it and you'll be able to let them in.
Okay, so let's go back to groups over here on the left side.
The groups feature that we saw just a moment ago.
So if you recall from the last section, Helen was the manager of our customer service team.
So to give her permissions to all the things that we did in that last section, Either we can add her
individual user as the admin of the project, like we looked at in the last video.
Or we could set up a group with the permissions that we want using the permissions schemes that we also
looked at.
And then if we want to share those same permissions to somebody else other than Helen, we can just
add that user to that same group.
So let's come in and create a group for managers.
We could add Helen right away.
And then of course we could add new users if we want to.
But I'm just going to stick with Helen for this example.
And now that Helen is in this group, let's set up the permissions for the overall group so that in
the future we could easily add anyone to this group to give them administrative permissions on projects
using this permissions scheme.
Okay.
So first thing I'm going to do is come in here and I'm actually going to undo what we did in the last
bit where we added her individually just so we can see that it's actually a permission scheme that's.
Affecting this.
So I'm going to remove her as an administrator.
And if we log back in as Helen and refresh this page.
Now we can see okay, we can't actually access the project settings.
Right.
So we don't see the project settings over here.
So she's no longer an administrator.
Now we need to add the administrative permission to this group.
So let's come back into the work items and down to the permission schemes.
And we're going to use this scheme.
Come into permissions.
Let's grant a permission.
So administer projects to the group team managers that we just created.
Go ahead and grant this okay.
That's been granted.
Let's hop back to being logged in as Helen I'm going to refresh the page here.
And now we can see those project settings.
She is an administrator of this project.
Not only this project, but any project that is using this permission scheme.
So all of these other projects as well.
So if we come in to one of these other projects.
We can see that Helen has administrative permissions on those projects as well.
And there we go.
You can see how all these features, like groups and schemes, can work together to make it so much
easier to manage lots of users and their permissions for projects.
So to recap, in this video, we learned how users work in JIRA, where we can go to add users and manage
them in groups.
We also learned how we can use groups with other features, like the permission schemes, to quickly
make sweeping changes to multiple projects.
Now, in our next video, we'll get an overview of some of the other settings that you might want to
customize in your company.
Managed projects.

--- Overview of the Company-Managed Project Settings ---

In this video, we'll get an overview of the project settings for company managed projects.
So let's hop into our company managed project.
We'll use this customer service project that we've used throughout this section.
Now right away in the project settings, we can see there are a ton of settings in here.
And realistically this could be an entire course by itself just going through these settings.
So if you would like to see something more in depth than this single video overview, let me know.
But like we've seen throughout this course, the first settings here at the top are the details where
we can change some of the basic details of the project, like the name, the project key that we set
up when we created the project.
We can change those here.
The summary is probably the fastest way to see all the different settings that we have hooked into this
project.
For example, we can see the permission scheme that we've looked at earlier as well and jump to that
really quickly.
But we also have schemes for other features like workflows and screens.
Now, we haven't looked at workflows and screens yet.
We will be looking at those features later on in this section.
But in this summary view here in the project settings is where we can see the different schemes that
are connected to this project.
Next we have people.
This is another place that we looked at already when we added Helen as a project administrator.
But I do want to point out that by default, JIRA adds this JIRA administrators group to the project,
and this is why administrators by default have administrative permissions to all the projects in JIRA.
Because Jira automatically sets this up.
But as with most things in JIRA, we do have full control.
So if we wanted to customize this differently, we could do that.
And that leads right into the permissions which again we've already looked at these.
Although we didn't come here, we actually came up into the settings and into work items to get to the
scheme.
But we can see this is the permission scheme that's being used for this project.
And we can come in and view this, or we could actually make changes to those permissions, use a different
scheme for this project if we wanted to do that right here.
Moving along we have notifications which are fairly straightforward of a feature.
Just like we have our permission scheme.
We have a notification scheme as well that determines okay when a work item is created.
For example, all the watchers assignee reporter gets a notification up here as well as email notifications
can go out as well.
You can see the email notification where it's going to be coming from.
Speaking of emails, when you are a JIRA administrator, you're probably going to get asked why something
isn't working in JIRA, and this little project email audit is a great tool for troubleshooting why
someone might not be getting those notifications.
So if something is not showing up in here, that means JIRA sent the email successfully.
It hasn't been blocked.
There's nothing bounced as far as Jira is concerned.
So there's nothing in here.
And chances are good that they got that email notification.
They just can't find it in their email.
But this is a great way to verify that things from JIRA side are working as expected.
Next, we have our automation settings and we will look at automation in its own video a little later.
But basically this is like IFT or if this then that or Zapier, but it's built directly into JIRA.
Then we have features where you can turn on or off features.
I would encourage you to turn off any features that your team members are not using, because it helps
clean up the interface a little bit more.
For example, we've already looked at turning on and off the timeline in the agile board, and so it
won't show up in the menu display if it's not being used, it doesn't need to show up.
Moving along in our project settings, the tool chain is where we can add any other apps alongside Jira.
For example, if we are using GitHub or GitLab or Atlassian's own Bitbucket as our repository, we can
hook that up in here.
Or as you can see, confluence is automatically hooked up because I have both a Confluence and Jira
license as we've seen earlier.
So that's why in the last section, when we completed the sprint, Jira asked if we wanted to add a
retrospective page in confluence because it's already been hooked up here.
So if your team was using other tools, you can hook them up in here as well.
Next we have the workflows and in a nutshell, the workflow controls what status is our work items in
this project will have, and we'll look at workflows in more depth in their own video.
So for right now let's just finish up these settings.
So moving along in the settings we have our work items.
So we have the work types.
Any work types associated with this project.
We can change those in here.
We can also see the layout.
So the layout controls how the fields are well laid out here in JIRA, which actually is kind of what
screens do to.
So tell you what, let's break out another video to unravel screens and layouts.
And we'll also be looking at creating custom fields in another video too.
But in here is where you can see all the different things that are tied again to this particular project.
Right.
So this is also using a scheme to tie the field configuration to this project.
And then we have the collector so or issue collector or remember issues are now called work items.
So I'm sure that this name will change.
But Basically an issue collector lets you add a form to the website, where then we can let our users
automatically add work items into JIRA.
Lastly, we have the work item security, which as you can see, I am not really using at the moment,
but this is kind of like another form of permissions because it lets us control which users or groups
can view work items.
Now versions used to be called releases, so think of it like version number of software 1.0, 2.0,
etc. and then we can track the work items that are associated with each version.
And similarly components are another way of organizing work items, except instead of seeing what work
items are associated with versions, maybe we want to track things like the checkout system of our website
separately from the work items that are associated with the login functionality.
Well, each of those, say login can be one component, checkout can be another component.
Then we can track the work affiliated with them inside of Jira.
And we'll be looking at components later on in this section as well as well as versions too.
Next we have our development tools.
It's similar to the tool chain, except these are dedicated to software development tools.
So making comments to Bitbucket can require some extra setup for permissions that we can configure in
here.
And then last but certainly not least, we can integrate other apps like Microsoft Teams not JIRA teams.
But this is how we can integrate Microsoft Teams into JIRA for communication or slack, if that's what
our organization is using.
As you can tell, there are a ton of settings in here that we can use to control our company managed
project, and some of them are using schemes which we touched on briefly with permission schemes.
But let's take a few moments to understand Jiras concept of schemes a little better, and we'll do that
in our next video.

--- Understanding the Concept of Schemes ---

So far in this section.
We've touched on schemes here and there, but in this video, we'll take a few moments to focus on understanding
how schemes work in JIRA.
Inside of Jiras administrative interface, we'll find a number of different schemes workflow schemes,
permission schemes, work type schemes and so on.
Anytime we see schemes in JIRA, what they are doing is connecting some sort of feature to a company
managed project, but it can start to get complex very, very quickly because even though we can only
have one scheme per project per feature, there are a number of features with schemes.
So for example, our permission scheme controls the users and roles in a project, but the work type
scheme controls which work types are available in a project.
And those schemes don't necessarily have to be connected to the same projects.
But from a project perspective, that means that we can have both work type schemes and permission schemes
connected to the project because they are controlling different features.
So let's look at an example of how this works in JIRA.
I'm going to hop back into the customer service project settings and let's work with the work type scheme.
So I'm going to come into work items under types.
And this is the work type scheme that's currently driving the work types for this project.
You can see it's actually called an issue type scheme because I created this back when they used to
be called issues before they become work types.
But you can see story bug, epic task and then a subtask of course.
And when we create a new work item in this project we have story bug, epic task.
And then of course once we create one, we could create a subtask under any of those standard work types
if we wanted to change this.
If we want to change what work types are available in this project.
We can come in, edit the work types.
And actually, while we're here let's go ahead and rename this to there We go.
Now it's a work type scheme and we can add in any of the available work types.
Again they're probably going to change this.
It's calling them types here.
Let's maybe add in an episode hit save.
And now if we create a new work item.
So we can see now we're able to use this other work type because we've changed it in that scheme, but
not only for this one project, because as we learned, schemes can actually be applied to multiple
projects.
So this is the one that is currently being used by this project.
But if we come up to our schemes here work type scheme.
That is.
Let's see.
The customer service project is using this.
But okay.
So this particular scheme is only being used by this project.
So if we wanted to change and let's say let's actually maybe use the same scheme as one of these others.
So we can see this in action here.
Let's come in here, come back to work types.
And instead of editing let's just use a different scheme so we can change the scheme.
So okay now instead of using these issue types or work types we can be using this one hit okay.
And there we go.
Now if we create a new work item in this project you can see those work types have changed.
And now if we change this one, it will actually affect multiple projects because this scheme is being
used by multiple projects.
So if we save this now.
Go ahead and create a new work item so we can see okay, our new work item has been added.
And then the same project the projects it's also using this work type scheme has the same work types
in it.
Okay, so to recap, in this video we learned that schemes are an important feature that allow us to
connect things like permissions, workflows, and work types to projects in our JIRA installation.
And speaking of work types, one of the powerful things that we can do in JIRA is to create our own
custom work types.
So let's learn how to do that in our next video.

--- Creating Custom Work Types ---

Throughout this course.
You might have noticed some custom work in my in my installation.
For example, if I create a new work item you can see in the based on a true story project, there's
a lot of custom work types like this episode work type.
You're not going to see this on your side because it's a custom work type that I've created to use in
my installation.
So in this video, we'll learn how to create a new custom work type.
Now, as with most things in JIRA, it's always a good idea to know what type of work you want to track
before creating anything new.
So today, let's create a new work type that will let us track new features in our customer service
project.
So let's head over to the project here.
Customer service three dots project settings to the work items and types.
Now this is the work type scheme.
Or as you can see my work type scheme is named the Issue Type scheme because it was actually created
before Atlassian renamed Issues to Work.
But this scheme lets us control the work types that we see and can use in this project, so we can see
task epic episode if I create a new work item in this project.
Those are the work types that can be used inside of this project.
But we can also see that the work type is also linked to things like the workflow.
But we can also see that the work type scheme is also linked to two things like the workflow.
So the statuses for these work types and how they transition inside of this project is all configured
here through this scheme.
Similarly, we learned earlier in this course that fields live on work items.
So that's why this work type scheme for these work types are also linked to the field configuration.
Let's say we wanted to make a field required on this work type in this project.
That's how all of this is done.
Similarly we also have the screen.
So how these fields are visible on these different work types inside of this project.
That's how all of this configuration goes together.
So let's edit the work types in this scheme to add a new custom work type.
So come up to actions, edit work types, and then at the very top right hand side we'll see add type.
And you probably noticed this a few times throughout this course.
But here's just another example of you're still calling them issue types in the interface instead of
work types.
And as you can see here, Atlassian is still making changes to all of this.
So if things have changed on your side when you're watching this, feel free to add a question in the
Q&amp;A.
But let's give this a name.
So this is going to be our new feature hit add.
And now that we have the work type created we can associate it with this project.
You can see right here it's already being added into this project.
Now just as a little tip, I have noticed in some earlier versions of JIRA, it automatically starts
up over here on the available issue types or work types is what this should be called.
So if you do see it over here, you can just drag it over and then organize it however you want to for
when things are created like in that list, right?
Go ahead and click on save.
And now we've created a new work type that's associated with this project.
So if we come up to create in this project we can now use our new feature work type.
And that's really all there is to adding in a new work type.
Now we can customize this a little bit further if we want to come into the settings and work items and
come into the work types, we can find the new feature work type that we just created come into actions.
Edit this if we want to rename it make, give it a different name.
Change the little avatar, the little icon you can upload your own or add in a custom one if you want
to.
Maybe add a little plus update that.
And now if we come in here and create our new work item, we can see.
That avatar changes for this.
Now when we actually create this work item you can see all these different fields on here.
Well what if we want to customize that?
What if we want to change the fields that are seen on this new work type that we've just created.
Well that's what we're going to do in the next video.

--- Creating and Adding Custom Fields to Work ---

In the last video, we created a custom work type for new features and put it in the customer service
project.
In this video, we'll continue right along by creating a custom field that lets us track the feature
location and then put it on the new feature work type.
So let's start by creating the field.
I'm going to come into the settings under Work Items, and on the left hand side we'll find fields and
create new field.
Now we need to tell Jira what type of field is this going to be.
Now in my experience, it's always better to choose the best type of field that lets you track this
information in JIRA later.
By that I mean not defaulting to a simple text field most of the time, because with the text field
you'll quickly start dealing with user misspellings or different people using different terms for the
same thing.
For example, is website one word or two?
Each iteration of it is a different option when it comes to trying to track that injera, using filters
and so on.
So there definitely is a time and place for a simple text field, but as you can see, there's a lot
of great options that we can pick from to make sure that we are capturing the data in a way that lets
us track it a lot better in JIRA.
So for this, let's use a list, maybe single choice.
So multiple options users pick one choice from those options.
And let's call this feature location.
Maybe give it a description.
Be located and then add in the options.
So maybe the mobile app is an option.
Uh, website one word if I could spell that right.
There you go.
Maybe podcast.
And we can add in more options if we want to.
But when we're ready go ahead and click on create and that field will be created.
Now we actually need to add this to a screen.
We'll look at field configuration schemes here in a second and what they do.
But we actually want to add this to a screen because inside of JIRA when you create a new work item
this is called the create screen.
So under actions find our field.
And if you need to filter we can do that add field to screen.
Now we need to pick the screen that we want to add this to.
And you can see there's a lot of different screens in here right.
And realistically this is one of the downsides to Jiras administrative back end is we can get a lot
of different configurations that we need to keep organized as a JIRA administrator.
And sometimes these different configurations are things that Jira creates and names automatically.
So let's actually come in to the project here because I'm not sure exactly which one is connected to
our customer service project.
And that's where the summary can be super helpful to know.
Okay, this is the name of the scheme attached to the project, which means that when a new issue or
work type is created in this project.
This is the screen that's being used.
Service scrum default issue screen.
So let's come in here and add our field.
Maybe move it up a little bit higher so it easier to see.
So now if we create a new work item in this customer service project we'll find our new field that's
been added.
So here we can see how this scheme is configured.
It's using the same screen for when a new work item is created, or when we're editing or just viewing
the work item.
So let's make sure that our field is added to this screen.
So let's come over to fields Field configurations.
This one I only have one field configuration across my entire JIRA installation, so that makes it a
lot easier to keep track of.
But let's find our field and make this a required field.
So now when a new work item is created, now our new field is a required field.
Except now we have another problem with this configuration because as you can see, this field is now
required on all of our different work types, not just the new feature work type.
It doesn't make much sense to have the feature location field be required on any type of work other
than the new feature work type.
So let's fix that.
And it probably doesn't make a lot of sense to have a feature location field on all of these other work
types.
Maybe we only want that on this new feature work type, and none of the other work types inside of this
project.
So let's go back to our scheme here.
The screen scheme.
And we're going to find the service screen scheme.
So remember this is the one tied to the customer service project Jira.
Automatically giving it a name will use the project key.
The front here I'm going to duplicate this and let's give it another name.
So maybe we'll call this customer service.
New feature work type screen scheme.
And we can add in a description that's just for our own purposes and organization if we want to do that.
Copy that.
Now.
We actually need to associate this.
You can see this is being this one is being used.
But the one that we just copied is not being used quite yet.
So let's come into the issue type screen scheme here that is being used.
And associate a work type with that new screen scheme.
So the new feature work type we're going to associate with that screen scheme that we just created.
Okay.
So now what Jira is saying is use this scheme for only this work type.
But all of the other ones, every other work type use this scheme.
So we have that hooked up properly.
But now we need to actually create that separate screen itself and then attach that to the scheme.
So let's come into our screens here.
Find the screen that's being used.
So this is the one that's being used currently in two different schemes.
I'm going to copy this because we want a different screen to be used for a new feature than the default.
And then basically we're just going to show that one field on that screen.
So I'm going to copy this and let's again call this customer service.
New feature work type screen.
And we could add a description if we want to.
But we'll copy that now that we have this created.
Now we basically need to do the same sort of thing.
We need to come in here and say, okay, we associate this screen with the new feature scheme.
So in here, so in here, instead of using the default.
Let's edit this to be the new screen that we just created, and it might go off the screen just a little
bit there, but this is the one that we just created.
Update this.
And now we should have everything working except we've made copies.
So we're not really going to see a lot of difference when we create our new work item, because the
new feature screen and schemes that we just created remember we just copied those.
So it's basically showing the same thing.
So now we need to make our change, find the screen the default screen.
And let's remove the feature location field from just this one screen.
So now if we create a new work item we will not see the feature location on the task work type, but
we should see it on the new feature work type right here so you can see all of the other work types
in this project do not have that field, which then because it's not being displayed, it's not a required
field since it's not being displayed.
Except for this new feature work type is showing it and it is a required field when users create a new
feature work type.
To recap what we learned in this video, we learned how to create a custom field.
We also learned how to make sure that field is showing up in our project, how to make it a required
field using our field configurations.
And then we learned how to use schemes to tie that new field to only one work type in our project.
Whew!
Now I know it can start to get confusing dealing with screens and screen schemes and work type screen
schemes.
And to make things even more confusing, Jura also has layouts that work similar to screens.
So let's take a break here and when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll unravel
screens and layouts.

--- Using Screens and Layouts ---

In the last video, we learned that screens will let us add fields to work items.
In this video, we'll look closer at screens and another very similar feature called layout.
The key difference between screens and layouts is that screens control which fields are displayed on
work, and then layouts add a visual editor that lets you have a little more control over how those
fields are displayed.
So when I create a new work item, these are the fields that we'll see in this project for this work
type.
Now the first thing that drives the fields that we see here is this user level configuration of the
fields.
So we could customize this if we wanted to remove some of these fields that we're seeing.
But of course even if we set this to all the fields, this is not all of the fields that we have inside
of JIRA.
So the next thing that we have driving, what we see here are the screens.
So if we wanted to find, maybe find that feature location field that we created in an earlier video.
We can see this is why that field is not showing up on this screen.
It's another way of being able to get to some of the settings that we looked at in a previous video
when we actually added this field, this custom field, we created it and we added it to screens.
This is another way to get there, searching directly for that field from the screen itself.
So from here we can just jump directly to this screen and then add that field in.
If we wanted to do that like we've looked at before.
And maybe move it up.
So it's a little bit easier to see.
And now when we create a new work item in this project, we're going to see that field show up, just
like we've looked at in an earlier video.
But we can customize this a little bit more, because what's cool is we can start to come in and add
maybe a tab.
So maybe we want to customize this screen.
Let's take the feature location here.
And let's put it in this features tab to show what this looks like.
Here we can start to customize how all of this looks.
So we're in the tutorials project.
We can see now we're starting to get tabs to customize the fields that we're seeing on this screen.
So as you can see there is a lot that we can do with screens to customize the fields that we're seeing,
where we're seeing them, and even adding in tabs, things like that.
And for a long time in JIRA, these were pretty much the only options that we had.
But then Atlassian added another layer of controls that they call the layout view, and we'll find that
in the project settings.
So let's come into our project here.
I'm going to go into the same tutorials project that we were just working in.
And in the work items we'll find the layout.
So in here we can see okay the fields are available from the screen configuration, but we can edit
the layout.
Run away.
We can see there's a lot of overlap from where we just were.
We can see the same fields that we had in the screen.
Let me actually hide the left menu just so we have a little bit more room here to see.
But you can see all the different fields that we have.
We even have the tab that we created in the screen itself.
But we also have some additional controls with the layout here.
For example, any fields that we have underneath this little dividing line will be hidden when empty.
And we can change this.
We can move this around however we want to of course, and really start to customize this to only show
fields when they have data inside of them.
And just like with screens, we can add in our fields over here as well.
Find whatever field we want to add in.
But there is one thing I want to point out here because watch what happens.
Let's look at say maybe components.
Let's look in components.
So hide components when empty, and we haven't talked about the components feature yet.
We will be talking about those in more depth here.
But as far as the field that's showing us the components tied to work items here, when we create a
new work item, we can still see the components here, right?
Even though this field says hide when empty when we're creating it.
And that brings up a good point, because this screen here to create new work is being controlled by
the screen itself, not the layout.
The layout drives the work view.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
This is the view for a work item.
So we're viewing this work item and you can see this work item has data in the components field.
So it's showing up here under the details.
But for another work item that does not have data in the components field, it's hidden away along with
all these other fields.
If we come back to our layout view here that are being hidden when empty.
So watch what happens when we change this.
If we were to maybe make the component field visible.
Make sure to save it.
Unlike screens that automatically save, there's no save button on the screen.
We actually have to save our layout.
And once that's saved, let's come back to our view here of this work item that does not have any components.
Watch what happens when I refresh the page.
You can see now components are showing up under details, even though there's no value in that field.
Because we've told JIRA that we want to see this field even if it's empty.
So that's one of the key differences between screens and layouts.
But as you can see, there is a lot of overlap in the capabilities for what we can do, like being able
to add or remove fields from the screen.
If we wanted to do that, we can do that from the layout view here as well.
Although there are some things that we still have to go to the screen for.
Like if we wanted to change the tab here, we would have to come in here, which just takes us back
to the screen to where we can come in here, move this back and you'll notice that there's no save anymore.
So maybe remove this tab.
There we go.
Can move this up if we want to make any sort of changes that we want in the screen.
And then now when we create this of course we will see this feature location right here.
And there's no more tab on this screen.
So to recap in this video we learned that even though screens and layouts do have some overlap, they
also have different controls for how we see fields and where we see them in Jira.
In our next video, we'll change gears a little bit as we learn about another important concept in JIRA
workflows.

--- Understanding the Concept of Workflows ---

In this video, we'll learn about workflows in JIRA.
The primary thing to know about workflows is they are how JIRA connects statuses to our work.
In a simple example, we can have our work items in JIRA go from todo to in-progress to done.
Those three statuses are in the workflow, but of course we can get more complex too.
So earlier in this section, when we created the new feature work type, maybe we want to add a custom
needs approval status for our customer service team to approve work.
So let's hop into JIRA to see this in action.
There are a couple of different ways we can get to our workflows.
Either we can see all the workflows in Jiras administrative area.
You can see workflows are under work items.
Or just like we saw with screens, we can hop into the project settings to get to the workflow used
by each of these projects.
So in the project settings we'll find the workflow.
And this is the workflow being used by this project.
So we can either view it and read only, or we can edit the workflow in what JIRA calls the workflow
designer.
So this is the workflow Designer, and it has undergone some interface updates over the past few years.
So depending on the version of JIRA that you're using on your side, it might look a little bit different
if you're using an older version, but the overall concept is the same.
When a work item is created, it's automatically in the to do status.
And then these are transitions.
So what this is saying is okay, any status can transition to the to do status, which means we could
have a work item in progress and then transition it back to Tujue if we wanted to do that.
Same for in progress, right.
So with this transition, any status can transition to in progress.
So let's add in our status.
Now if we already have statuses created we can search for an existing one.
I'm going to create a new one right here.
And the status category, this is going to be an in-progress status.
We are going to look at statuses themselves in their own video.
But just for now, know that you cannot customize the status category to create new status categories.
But each status needs to be in one of these categories.
This is an in-progress status.
Add this in and there we go.
We have this status that's been added, and by default, any status in this workflow will be able to
transition to the needs approval status.
So let's see what this looks like on our agile board, which I think we haven't set up the Kanban board
on in this project yet, the one that we use in the last section, because we actually had to create
this whole entire project earlier in this section where I explained all of that.
So we don't have the Kanban board yet, so we don't have an active sprint.
So just for this video, I'm just going to create a real quick Kanban board here.
So we can see this and then create a work item.
Let's use our new feature here.
Feature to show workflow.
And remember we had the feature location be a required field.
So we'll have to add that.
There we go.
All right so here you can see we can transition these to our new needs approval status.
And the work item is this new custom status that we've created.
And then of course like we've learned earlier in the board settings, now we can come back and change
the columns themselves.
If we want to do that, maybe add in needs approval.
There we go.
Add that column.
Add this status to it.
And then back on the board we can see that change getting reflected.
So in a nutshell that's how the workflows control the statuses and transitions, but we can take this
to the next level.
So let's come back to our workflow here and edit this.
So let's say instead of allowing any status to transition to this one, let's say we actually want to
make it so that after to do there's in progress.
And then it has to go from in progress to needs approval.
You can't go from to do to needs approval.
So let's change this so that in order to reach the needs approval status work has to be in progress
first.
So I'm just going to delete this any transition here.
And instead let's make a transition from in progress to needs approval.
So let's say in progress to needs approval for the name of this transition.
Create that.
And there we go.
So let's update our workflow and see what happens now on the board with this new updated workflow.
So if we hop back to our project here.
And let's say, okay, we created this new workflow, it's it's to do now I can't move it to needs approval
yet because it has to be in progress first.
So now I can.
But from any of these other statuses, it's not going to allow me to actually transition it, right.
So it can't transition.
It can only transition from in-progress to needs approval.
And we've customized that through the workflow and in particular the transition right here.
Of course sometimes that can be overly restrictive.
So in my experience, unless there is a specific need to do this to restrict how work items move from
one status to another, usually it is easier to keep that any Transition.
So if we wanted to do that, we could just come in here and delete this transition and then allow issues
from any status to move into this one, update that workflow.
And moving back to the board to show what this does.
Now we can see it moves there, but it can also transition from any of these other statuses as well.
So in this video we learned how workflows in JIRA can control these statuses and transitions for our
work items between videos.
I would encourage you to take some time.
Open up the workflows on your side to see which statuses are being used by different projects.
Now, one of the things you might have noticed we can control in the workflow are rules.
Those rules have to do with automation in JIRA, and that's a feature that we haven't really talked
about yet.
So when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll learn all about automation in JIRA.

--- Getting Started with Automation in Jira ---

In this video, we'll learn about automations in JIRA.
If you've ever used a service like if This than that, Iftt or Zapier.
Automations are a lot like that, except they are built directly into JIRA.
So for this video, let's set up an automation.
So whenever work is moved into the approval status and the customer service project that we set up in
our last video, that work will automatically get assigned to the manager of the customer service team.
Helen, so she can approve it.
As with most things in JIRA, there are multiple ways we can achieve what we want to do.
For example, at the end of the last video, we saw that we can add a rule directly in the workflow.
So let's come into our project settings to get to our workflow.
Go into workflows and edit the workflow for this project.
And then we're going to add a rule.
And the rule we want to add.
You can scroll.
You can see there's a lot of different rules in here.
But the rule we want to add is to assign this to another user.
So it's going to be assign an issue.
This is another example of JIRA using the older issue terminology instead of work, we need to pick
the transition that this happens on.
It's going to be the approval transition that we've created and we're going to assign it to Helen.
Go ahead and add that.
We can see that action has been added to this transition right here.
Now let's watch what happens when we go back to our board.
Go back to the board here.
Watch the assignee right now.
It's unassigned.
As soon as I bring it into the approval column that automatically gets assigned to Helen.
As you can see, automations can be a great way to speed up our workflows.
But of course, we can find automations in other areas of JIRA other than workflows.
So this little icon right here, whenever you see this, this is the automation icon in Jira.
So right here we can create an automation.
And let's say for this automation let's do something outside of the workflow itself and let's say whenever
there is work that is due within a week, we want to set the priority of that work item to be high.
So that way there's more awareness of oh, the due date is coming soon.
So the trigger for that is going to be the field.
The particular field that we're going to look for is the due date.
And any changes to the field value is fine.
But I'm going to add a condition to this because we can add actually a query for this condition.
So we can say actually I'm going to do not overdo as well.
Just so we don't get any overdue items and do is under one week.
Nope.
Don't need that.
There.
There we go.
Let's validate this query.
There we go okay.
So let's continue on next.
And the action that we want to perform on this is to edit the priority.
There it is to be high.
There we go.
Now let's save this off.
Give it a name.
So due date drives priority.
There we go.
Turn on the rule and let's watch this one in action too.
So let's come back to our project.
Here you can see the priority on this is low.
So if we change this due dates it looks like I do not have the due date field on this work item.
So let's add that real quick in the layout here.
Let's add the due date.
There we go.
Now we can go back to our work item.
Add this due date and let's just add it to be uh maybe tomorrow something like that.
So it's within the next few days and watch the priority.
It's automatically going to get updated to be high priority because that due date is within a week.
Now down here at the bottom we can see all the different rules run on this work item right here.
So hopefully the gears are starting to turn for how you can use automation to do some really cool things.
But just like we learned how automations can apply to workflows and projects, they can also apply to
JIRA globally.
So beyond any specific projects, you can have global automations across everything in your JIRA installation.
So let's come into our project settings here because this is a quick way to get their automation.
And then we can just go into the global administration here.
And that's the same as coming into JIRA admin settings up here.
It's just kind of a matter of how you want to get there.
But we can see the due date rule that we've created right here.
And you'll notice here we can see the scope.
So the scope of this rule is to run in this one project.
If I remove this filter here, you can see there's also some global automations that will run across
the entire JIRA installation, regardless of what project it is, right.
So closing duplicate issues across the entire JIRA installation instead of just in one project.
Obviously, we've just scratched the surface on the specific types of automations you can do in JIRA.
You can see there's a ton of pre-built templates that encourage you to come in here between videos to
look at these templates, see which ones will be helpful to you, or start creating your own rules.
And if you found some helpful automations that you'd like to share with the rest of the class, I'd
love to hear how you're getting more stuff done.
Thanks to Jiras automations.
Actually, that reminds me about one more thing before we wrap up this video, because you can actually
come in here to the rules, and let's find that rule that we just created, because you can come in
here and export this rule to a JSON file.
There we go.
Save that out.
And then at any time, if you do want to bring that back that in the global automation is import that
rule.
There we go.
Let's import this.
Say we want this.
And actually instead of having the scope be just for this one project, we could make it a global rule
by removing that go through the import process.
And there we go.
We've imported that rule again, which now we can see is a global rule across all of JIRA, which realistically
we don't really need this one anymore.
We can enable this one and just get rid of this guy.
Since the global scope also includes the customer service project.
But now that we've looked at how automations work in JIRA, let's move on to our next video where we'll
learn about another feature called components.
See you there.

--- How to Use Jira's Components ---

In this video, we'll learn about Jiras components.
Components are a feature that lets us group work items into different subareas.
For example, if you're running an e-commerce website, then maybe have a component for all of the work
items associated with the website's payment processor, and then maybe another component for all of
the work items associated with the back end database, and so on.
Components live inside of a JIRA project and are basically like a special tag that we can place on work
items to help track them better.
And then on the back end, Jira can use those components for things like assigning the work items to
the right users, reports, filters, and a lot of the features that we've already learned about in
this course.
Now there are two types of components with JIRA.
The one that Jira will probably try to get you to use first is compass components, because that is
the more powerful of the two types, but it's also an additional license on top of the JIRA license.
And as we learned in the Terms and Concepts section earlier, we're not using any additional licenses
or apps for this course.
So if you would like to see a different course focusing on just compass components, let me know.
But the other type are simply called Giras components, and while they're not as powerful as compass,
they are included in Giras license, and we'll find those in the project settings.
So let's hop into Gira to find where those are.
I'm going to come into a project, pick the project that we want the components to live in.
So let's use the based on a True Story project, come into Project Settings and over to components.
Now up here we can see that I am using Gira components.
If you do want to switch to compass and try that out on your side, you can do that right here.
But let's create our first component.
Now, I'd encourage you to take some time to think through how you want to organize everything on your
side with components.
And an important thing to know about components is they are per project.
So the components we create in this project, we can't use in another project, they don't span multiple
projects.
And since this particular project is for tracking my podcast production, it makes sense to have the
components be the different subareas of the production process.
So maybe for the first one it's going to be concept and planning.
Give it a description if we want and then we can choose the component lead.
Now if you recall from earlier in this course we learned that a project lead lets us tell JIRA to automatically
have work items in that project, get assigned to the project lead, or use that in different ways on
the back end.
Well, we get another layer of control over that with components because each component can have their
own lead.
So maybe the lead for this one.
We can have that be Dan hit save.
And let's I'm going to close the menu here real quick.
But let's create another component.
And let's maybe call this guess management.
And the component lead for this we can have be Helen.
And then we're going to add a couple more maybe avi production for component.
We can have that lead be our editor, which is Noah.
But we don't have to have a lead for all of them.
So maybe for this one we can just leave this at the default, which is no lead.
And that means the default assignee is going to be whatever the default is.
Now that's something we learned about earlier in this course.
But if we come into the details for this project down here we can see the default assignee is Dan which
is the project lead.
So really there's no difference here between setting this and setting up the component as the component
lead being that same user, since the default with no component lead would just go back to the project
default.
And the project default is Dan.
Same user.
Now right here we can already start to see that Jiro.
Let us track how many issues or work items as they're called now are tagged with this component, right?
So if we open this up we can see basically it just takes us to a filter.
This is a view that we've already looked at earlier in this course the all work view.
And it's just creating a filter with these components.
Now of course we just created these components so there isn't any work here yet.
So let's walk through how to add a work item to a component.
Let's come into our project here and I'm going to go to the board.
And maybe one of these that is in editing that would make sense for the audio.
Video production and components are just a field.
So now we can see all the components that we've created tag that work item with this component.
And if we head back into the settings to find our component, we can see.
Now there is one issue associated with this component.
Now, the real benefit of using components and organizing things this way starts to come after we've
been using them for a while, so we can start to see the different work items tagged with components
over a longer period of time.
But another important thing to keep in mind with components is that when we're assigning the lead,
that doesn't mean that JIRA will automatically make every single work item assigned to that user.
So the lead for this component was nella, but it didn't automatically change this assignee.
After all, it's not like the lead would always be the user doing the work on that component.
But now that we're using components, we can start to use some other features that we've seen to do
exactly that if we wanted to.
So if we hop back into the project, into our project settings and come to automation now, we can set
up a rule using the components.
So let's create a new rule and let's say the trigger.
We want the for a field value that changes.
And the field that we're going to use are components.
And then we're going to add a condition to this to say, okay, the work item field condition means
that the component needs to be this AV production, right.
So it the field changes.
The component field is what JIRA is going to be tracking for this rule.
But then it's only going to do anything if that component field gets changed to the AV production component.
Go ahead and click on next.
And then the action for this would be to edit the work item.
Change the assignee.
To be forgot to actually set that.
Don't want it to be unassigned.
Let's assign that to Noah.
Okay, there we go.
So let's turn on this rule.
Let's give this a name.
Work items assigned to Noah.
Turn on that rule.
And now if we go back to our project, Let's actually come in here and remove this because it's the
trigger is when this field value changes.
So we've already added that.
So once I remove this component watch the assignee right here.
When I add this component back the assignee will automatically update to be nella.
To recap in this video we learned how to create components, apply work items to them, and along the
way we learned that components are a built in way to help us organize the work items in our JIRA projects,
so you can start to see how this works.
From components sending us to a filter using fields and automations all together.
Which means we can start to use all these features maybe to track the components on a custom dashboard,
since those are driven by filters or performing automations like we've seen here.
In our next video, we'll learn about yet another built in way to help us organize our work items.
Resolutions.
See you there.

--- Using Resolutions to Track Completed Work ---

In this video, we'll learn how we can use resolutions to track how our work is completed.
So here on this Kanban board, we have a couple work items that, quite frankly, will not be done anytime
soon.
Rather than keeping them on the board and just clogging up the board visual clutter here, as we've
seen throughout this course, we can remove them from the board by dragging them to done.
And that will make it disappear here on this Kanban board.
But even though we dragged it to the done status, that work isn't actually completed.
So many years ago, one of my old bosses used to do this.
He would drag work items over to the done column, even if it was work that wasn't actually completed.
And he didn't want to do it right now.
Maybe sometime in the future.
He just wanted to clear it off the board.
And then that would mean that sometimes he would go back months or even years later, to try to find
those old work items, to see if it would spark any new ideas for the product.
So to do this, to streamline this workflow, we set up a way to track all those work items in a way
that he can go back and find them later on, and an easy way to do that is with a resolution.
So let's start by creating a resolution to use, and we'll come up to the JIRA administration area into
the work items.
And over on the left hand side we will find resolutions.
So there are some default resolutions that will come inside of JIRA.
But we can also create a custom one.
So the one that we actually use, this is what we actually use.
For my boss, it was a resolution that was just like a, which is basically somewhere between won't
do this and done.
It's just a so we can add this resolution.
And now that's an attribute that we can tie to work items to then use in a filter.
Now what's really cool is we can set this up in JIRA using our workflow so that when that transition
happens to the done status, we can apply this resolution if we want.
So let's come back to our workflow.
We could access that here if we remember which workflow is tied with our project, this one right here.
And then come over and edit the workflow to get into the workflow designer.
And what we want to do is on this transition into the done status, let's add a rule that will allow
us to show a screen.
Now we've already looked at screens in this course, but I actually have a custom screen that I've created
that allows us to add that resolution field.
Okay.
So once we have this updated now if we update this workflow, let's watch this in action.
Let's head back to our project here and come into the board.
So for this other work item watch what happens when I drag this over to done.
Now we're going to get this screen that says, hey, do you want to fill out the resolution.
And yeah, this is one of those probably not going to do this.
We can add a comment if we want to.
But now that we have that resolution tied to it, as we've seen earlier, we can come in and filter
by the resolution to find all of the work items that have been added to that custom resolution that
we've created, and there we go.
So resolutions are a fairly straightforward concept, but they serve an important purpose that can help
us find work later on.
So in this video, we learned how resolutions are an entity in JIRA that we can use to track how or
why work items are transitioned into a done status.
And speaking of statuses, let's move on to our next video where we'll look at creating custom statuses.

--- Creating Custom Statuses ---

In this video, we'll learn how to create custom statuses in JIRA.
Statuses are a global entity that can be shared by the work items in all of our company managed projects.
So let's head into Jiras global administration area under Work items.
On the left hand side menu we will find statuses.
Now the key thing to keep in mind is that no matter how many custom statuses we have, as far as JIRA
is concerned, there are really only three status categories we can see.
The category right here to do is a category in progress is a category, and done is another category.
So we can have a status called open.
But as far as JIRA is concerned on the back end it's in the to do category, which is important for
things like Jiras reports.
If you remember, when we looked at the control chart, it was tracking how long things were in production.
Really what that is, it's tracking how long a work item is in one of those in-progress statuses, regardless
of what that status is called, if that's in the in-progress category.
So let's get a visual representation of what I mean here.
If we come into our board.
And into the columns, we can see.
Let's hide the menu just so we can see a little bit easier here.
So we can see this is from this little gray line here.
This is in the to do status category.
These little blue lines all of these statuses are in the in progress status category.
And then this green one right here means that this is in the done status category.
So if we head back to our statuses here.
We can see that it's very faint on here.
But we can see the gray, the blue and the green for those different colors of the status category.
So that's important to keep in mind because on the back end JIRA is using those for not only the reports
that we saw there the board's filters, permissions, transitions.
There's a lot of different areas where JIRA uses those different status categories and you cannot create
custom status categories.
You can create custom statuses and then assign it to one of those categories.
So let's create a new status.
And let's say maybe it's been this the work items we have the needs approval status that we've created
before when we were working with the workflows.
But let's say maybe something went through QA and it got rejected.
We can have a status for that.
Then we can pick the category for this.
And in my experience, most statuses that you're probably going to have are going to be some form of
an in-progress, because that is much more broad than a not started or to do or open that sort of thing.
Create this status there.
And now that we have that status created, we can start to use that.
We'll see this status right here, but it's not associated with any workflows.
Now, we've already looked at workflows earlier in this section so we can move a little bit faster,
but we can get to our workflows either here or in the project settings to get to them associated with
particular projects.
I'm going to open up this here.
I'm going to open up this workflow here and add the status.
So now when we add a status instead of creating a new status we did that earlier.
In this section we can search for the status that we've already created and add that in.
And again you can see the color coordination.
So gray this is in the todo status category.
All of these blue statuses are in the in-progress category that we can see right here.
And then we have the green done category.
Once we update this workflow now, we can come back and start to use this new status on our board.
So we might want to customize where that status is displayed on the board.
So we can see it's currently unmapped.
So we could add this into any of our different columns just like we do for any of these other statuses.
Or maybe we could just create a new one.
Injected by QA.
There we go.
And let's move this over.
So we're still following the agile process.
Of left to right.
And then so QA is part of post-production.
And then if it gets rejected they can pull it back to this status.
And then we could take this to the next level if we wanted to.
And in our workflow, like we've learned earlier in this section, if something transitioned to this
status, maybe there's the head of QA that it automatically gets assigned to to make sure it doesn't
fall through the cracks.
There's a lot of different things that we can do now that we have a custom status.
We've assigned it to our workflow, and all of this is starting to come together.
As we've learned in this video, statuses are as simple and yet very powerful entity that is vital to
the backbone of tracking our work items in JIRA.
So it would benefit you to take some time to plan out what custom statuses your teams need.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll learn how to use versions in JIRA.

--- Using Release Versions ---

In this video, we'll learn how to use versions.
A versions used to just be called releases in JIRA.
So there is some crossover terminology that we'll see in Jiras interface, kind of like how we see issues
pop up here and there throughout the course, even though the term has changed to work in JIRA, the
key thing to keep in mind about versions is they are a lot like components that we've already learned
about, except instead of components tracking sub areas of our work, we can group together our work
items into versions.
So that way we can always go back to see what is associated with what version.
So for example, if we come into our project here, let's use the tutorials project into the project
settings.
Over on the left hand side we will find versions and you can see the terminology here.
Releases, release versions version uh, the release date, things like that.
So anytime you see release or versions, just know it's talking about the same feature here.
Think of this kind of how apps have version 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, etc. for each of those versions that get
released.
We can track that inside of JIRA to know what work items are associated with version 2.0 of our app.
For example, what bugs got fixed?
What stories or new features or tasks were included in that release?
Now remember at the beginning of this course I mentioned it would be constantly updated, just like
software keeps getting new versions.
Well, in here you can see how I am tracking those versions and the work items being released with each
version.
So we can see all of the different versions that have been released, and we can come in here and create
a new one if we want to.
So let's call this maybe version 8.6, since that's the next one after 8.5.
And then inside of this version, we would be able to see any work items that are associated with it.
Of course we just created this version so there's no work items associated with it yet.
So tell you what.
Let's actually come into one of these other releases.
Let's look at this current one here.
And we can see all of the different work items that are associated with it.
And up here at the top, we can organize or we can add some extra metadata to this version as well.
For example, if we wanted to add in release notes, we can tie into confluence if we have a license
to confluence alongside of Jira, or if we're using a design tool like Figma, we could see those linked
designs right here.
But of course both Confluence and Figma are outside the scope of Jira.
They are completely separate licenses, but it's nice that we can hook all of that up together to our
version, so that all of that information about this version is stored in one place.
Now here, with the work items in JIRA that are associated with this version up here, we do have some
filters, kind of like what we saw with the agile board, some of the quick filters.
Although we can't customize these filters, we have the ability to filter by epic, either by title
or the summary, by epic, or things like the status category that we already looked at.
So what is the current status category for any of these work items?
This is the one that's currently in progress as I'm recording this course right now, or any warnings
that might come in.
So some of these warnings might be automatically pulled depending on the toolchain that you're using.
If you are hooked into something like GitHub or Bitbucket or something like that for code or who they
are assigned by.
So even though we can't customize those filters, they are worth pointing out so you don't overlook
them.
And you can start to filter all of the work items listed or that are associated with this version.
Same with over here on the right side.
So up here at the top we have the current status for this version.
We could release it right here if we wanted to, which would change that to be the released status that
we saw for some of the other versions.
Think of these kind of like these status categories for work items we have unreleased, which means
it's still in progress, right?
We have release, which means that it's done.
And then we have archive, which is just another way of being able to filter right here so we can see
much older versions if we want to in the archive, and then clean up just the released ones to being
the most recent releases.
Underneath the status of the version, we have a start date, release date if that's associated.
This is not released yet, so there's no release date yet.
We have the driver, which think of the driver like the reporter on a work item, like when you saw
when you create the new version, the person who creates that version by default is the driver.
But just like the reporter for an individual work item, we can change the driver if we want to do that.
Kind of like a point of contact for this version.
And then the contributors are automatically assigned by JIRA for anybody that has worked on items in
this version.
So if we come into one of these work items that's associated and say, maybe assign this to Helen.
We can see this contributor is automatically going to update.
We might need to refresh the page for that to that update.
And there we go.
We have that contributor updated.
We can add a description if we want to.
So this is the for admin section.
That's what this release is.
And we can also add in some approvers.
This is a nice little way to be able to add one or more people to, to approve the release before it
actually goes out.
So we could say maybe we want Dan and Helen to be an approver.
Now you'll notice that even though I'm logged in as a global JIRA administrator, I can mark things
for my user account to be approved.
But you'll notice I can't mark it as approved for Helen because she is a different user and she actually
has to approve this release.
Now, as a global administrator, I can remove her as an approver.
Same as I can do for myself if I want to do that as well.
And then last but certainly not least, we have a quick little report of the progress for the work items
on this release to kind of get a quick overview of the status of this release and how far along it is.
So now we have a good idea of how versions work in JIRA.
But before we wrap up this video, there are two more things I wanted to point out when it comes to
versions and agile boards.
Because Jira lets us use versions on kanban boards similar to how scrum boards has sprints.
So let's hop over to one of our projects here.
This one is using a Kanban board.
And over here in the three little dots we can create a release.
Once items are done, we can clean up all of the work items in the done status and create a release
associating all of those work items with that release.
Now, personally, I use a scrum workflow, so I don't really use releases on the Kanban board this
way.
But basically what Jira does is it takes all these work items in the done status in that column, and
then it adds them to a release from the board here that then we could look at in that release section
of the project settings that we looked at earlier.
It's just a faster way of adding work items to a release, the same as if we were to come in here and
either add work items here, or come in here and add in some sort of a work item that we want to be
associated with this release right here.
And that leads me right into the second thing I wanted to point out, because if we were to come over
to this Kanban board here and notice, okay, so this is 1567, right.
This is 1567.
If we try to add that to a release version in a different project, JIRA is not going to let us do that
because the versions are per project.
So if we were to try to add in really any of the work items here, it's not going to allow us to do
that.
You can see no work items found.
But in this project if we were using versions.
Just to show this example here, let's just create a new version real quick.
And now if I come in and add a work item using the key.
We're able to do that because versions are on a per project basis.
So that's something to keep in mind as you're thinking about how you want to organize all of the versions
in your JIRA projects.
Okay.
So in this video we learned what release versions are, where to find them, and how to use them to
track work items released in different versions.
In our next video, we'll get an overview of some of the JIRA administrative settings that we haven't
had a chance to look at yet.
See you there!

--- Overview of Jira's Admin Settings: System ---

Throughout this section, we've looked at the most common settings we'll need to get up and running
inside of JIRA.
But as you might expect, there are a lot more ways that we can customize JIRA.
So in the next few videos, we'll take a little time to get an overview of the JIRA administrative settings
that we haven't had a chance to look at in more depth, with the goal of helping you get comfortable
with the interface so you'll know what's available and where you can find it.
So as we've done numerous times throughout this course, all of our JIRA admin settings are in the settings
gear underneath the individual user settings.
We have our JIRA admin settings.
This is collectively what I refer to as Jiras administration area.
Basically everything will find a customized JIRA itself is in here.
So let's start with this top one here the system.
Now a lot of these we've already looked at in more depth throughout this course.
But a lot of these we haven't looked at yet.
So if you want to see a course that digs into any of these settings in more depth, just let me know.
But in this video, we're going to run down what each of these different menu items are so that you'll
know where you can go to find the settings that you need.
Starting with this general configuration under the system settings here.
Most of the time you won't need to make changes in here, but there are a few things that you might
want to customize.
For example, up here at the top we have the title.
This text right here simply says JIRA is what drives this text right here.
If you want to customize that for any reason.
But this email from is actually probably the biggest thing that I've customized in this area, because
this drives the email from line, the email that Jira uses when it sends email.
So you can see the variable that it uses, and then JIRA, if you wanted to customize that for when
your users are using email filters, you can do that right in here.
Next, under troubleshooting and support we have the audit log.
This is kind of like the history on a single work item that we've looked at earlier, except this is
a log of the changes across all of JIRA.
So if something breaks, it can be a really good way to come in here and see what was changed, who
changed it, the user that changed it and then start to troubleshoot that, to start to break it down
a little bit more.
Next in security we have our project roles.
Anytime you see roles in Jira it has to do with permissions.
In this case, project roles can be used in permission schemes that we've looked at earlier, email
notification schemes, work item security, comments and workflow conditions all as ways of being able
to assign users to roles for their permissions in a project.
Global permissions are exactly what they sound like permissions that spread across all of JIRA.
So for example, this is how we will create new global JIRA administrators.
We can see the administered JIRA permissions right here, but as we can see by this link, the permissions
are configured in user management.
That's part of Atlassian's overall administration that we looked at earlier in this section.
Work item collectors are a quick way to let public users fill out a form that creates a work item.
In JIRA, for example, we can see that I have one here for requesting an episode.
If we hop to another browser window, we can see this work item collector here on this website that
when we open this up we can see, okay, summary, description, name, email.
And then this gets submitted.
And then a new work item gets created inside of the based on a true story project that we've looked
at earlier in this course.
Automation is something else that we've looked at in projects.
And here we can see all the automation in JIRA on a global level.
The scope column right here tells us what projects it's a part of, whether it's global, or maybe some
of these rules are in projects that used to exist.
And now we can just see the ID, the project ID that it used to be a part of it.
So maybe we need to start coming in here and cleaning up some of these roles that we're not using anymore.
Moving on to our user interface settings, we can set up defaults for any user in our JIRA installation.
And we've already looked at creating custom dashboards.
But in here we can set up a default dashboard for our users.
And we also have some limited customization that we can do to jiras look and feel to customize that.
For example, maybe changing the logo.
This is probably one of the most popular things that I've seen JIRA administrators do in really this
entire section because you can.
This logo right here drives what is visible in the menu for everybody across the JIRA installation.
You can also come in here and change things like the favicon if you want to customize that as well.
As well as customizing some of the colors.
So like the highlight.
So for the create button right here is driven by this color right here.
Next we have the announcement banner which is also a pretty straightforward concept.
But we can come in here and add any sort of announcement that we want to see across all of JIRA for
any of our users.
So maybe something, you know, do something just to show this example here, when we show the banner
to users, watch what happens up here at the top and we publish that, we can see this little announcement
here.
Now usually it's obviously not something like hello World.
You could have, um, you know, um, this is the new link to internal email, something like that,
and then add whatever that link is right here, and we publish that to our users.
We can add that announcement.
And then at any time, if we want to remove that, we can turn that off, publish that and turn that
off there underneath the user interface settings.
Here we have import and export.
How well these import and export settings work depends heavily on the version and the license of JIRA
that you're using.
The backup manager here will create a backup for your entire JIRA installation.
How long that takes, of course, depends on how much information you have in there, but it's not in
a format that's easy to access outside of JIRA itself.
Speaking of outside of JIRA, we do have the external system import, so there are some ways that we
can import data from another project management tool.
Maybe like Monday or Asana or maybe even Airtable, something like that.
We can import data from that if we're migrating into JIRA from one of those tools.
And then, of course, if we are creating our backup from JIRA, there has to be a way to import that
into another installation in JIRA.
So if we're using a JIRA cloud license, this is where we can import that.
Or if we're using Azure Data Center or JIRA server license, we used to be able to do that here.
As we can see this has been discontinued.
So if you need to do that reach out to Atlassian if you have more questions about that.
Moving along in this video we have our mail settings.
So we have the global mail settings.
This is mostly for when we're wanting to receive emails from JIRA or send emails to Jira that get turned
into work items or comments and how all of this gets processed.
For example, we can disable any outgoing mail from JIRA here.
Now, I would highly recommend you don't do this, because JIRA sends a lot of email notifications that
your users can find helpful, but I do want to point out that you can completely turn that off here
for incoming mail.
In this option right here, this is when one of your JIRA users emails Jira, or maybe they're replying
to one of Jiras email notifications, trying to add a comment or something like that.
If you are using a JIRA cloud license like I am for this course, Atlassian handles setting all of this
up, so most of the time you won't need to come in here and make configuration changes.
But if you're using a data center license with your own mail server, you might need to come in here
and change what the mail servers are or make some sort of configuration changes in here.
And you can do that right here.
And along those same lines, while JIRA itself does send out a lot of emails for notifications to various
users, as a global JIRA administrator, if you need to send an email through JIRA, you can do that
right here.
With this send email option, we can come in here, add a subject, a body, and then send this to all
the different users for any different projects or those project roles coming from this email address
that we have set up through Atlassian, basically sending it from Jiras notification system.
Think of this like an alternative for the announcement banner if you want to email an announcement instead.
Moving right along.
And again, if you want another course that goes into more depth about any of these, just let me know.
But I encourage you to get familiar with these next two features because they are super helpful when
one of your users needs help.
The permission helper under the Admin Helper title.
Here.
The permission helper is a great way to see which permission in JIRA is not allowing them to do something.
So if we were to come in here and say, okay, maybe let's find Eldora as a user and then search up
a particular work item, let's say maybe this one right here, and then come in for the permission and
just do administer.
And when we submit this we can see, okay.
So this is the result of this for this particular user, this project, this is where that issue or
work item lives.
And oh well, the reason why it's not working is probably because Eldora does not have administrative
permissions inside of this project.
So if she's trying to do some something that requires administrative permissions, that's why it's not
going to be working on her end.
And we can start to troubleshoot that and start to figure out why things aren't working for her.
And then, of course, we can see where to go to change that in the permission scheme if we want to
do that.
Similar for the admin email audit here, except this lets us see any errors from JIRA side.
For those times when users say they can't get an email invite or something like that.
Well, if there aren't any errors in here, chances are good that that email actually did get sent.
It did not get bounced or blocked by the email for whatever reason.
And maybe it's actually hiding their spam folder or something like that.
But it's a really nice that we can come in here and see this from JIRA side.
If JIRA is getting any sort of errors back, we can audit that right in here.
Moving along to shared items.
We have filters we've already dug into, filters we've dug into dashboards.
But this view in here is a global way.
It's a very nice way of being able to see all the shared items, all the.
The filters and all the information about that, the name, who owns it, the shared, who, the editors
are all of that.
Same for things like the dashboards, we can just see a nice list of everything globally across all
of JIRA here, and then we can start to jump in to make adjustments to those, or we can just throw
them out if they're not being used anymore, we can come in here and actually delete these.
If we want to do that, start to clean up stuff across all of JIRA very quickly here.
And then last but certainly not least over here on the left hand side under the advanced system settings.
Most of the time if you're using a JIRA cloud license, this is automatically configured by Atlassian.
So you don't need to make changes in here.
But if you are running JIRA on your own server and need to change the size of attachments, what the
upload size limit is for those attachments that your users are doing, you can change that in here.
We also have the events so we can find a table of the system and user events inside of JIRA, almost
like a running history of literally anything that's done.
Like when an issue is created, you can see issue created.
This is the event that happened.
These are the associated workflows with that issue that got created, all of these different events
that are running across all of Jira.
We can even add our own custom one if we want to do that as well.
Right here, just this nice little log of all the events across the system.
Then if we have any webhooks configured, we can change those in here.
As I mentioned before, I am using an out of the box version of JIRA for this course, so I don't have
anything in here.
But if you are using webhooks you can configure them or create them in here.
And then lastly we have options for changing the Alexa rank management system.
Basically, Alexa Rank is Gira's internal algorithm for ranking work on the agile board bought most
of the time.
You will never have to come in here, but if you do, I would highly recommend reaching out to Atlassian
before making any changes.
You can see even this little banner right here.
It says contact our support team before making changes in here, just to make sure that you're not breaking
anything, because the internal algorithm for how JIRA works can break things very, very quickly.
But it's really cool that you have the ability to come in here and still customize that if you really
want to.
Okay, so I know we've only got the chance to review these settings without really seeing how they work
in depth.
That could be an entire course of its own.
So if you would like to see that, please do let me know.
But this video is starting to run a little long, and we still have a lot of JIRA settings to look at.
So let's take a break here, grab a fresh cup of water and in our next video we'll get an overview of
JIRA administrative settings for products and projects.
See you there.

--- Overview of Jira's Admin Settings: Products and Projects ---

In our last video, we started with a brief overview of JIRA admin settings by looking at the system
settings.
In this video, we'll continue right along by looking at the product and project settings.
So let's start with the products here.
Starting at the top here we have.
This is just a link to the Atlassian administration area that we looked at in the user management video.
If we open this up basically that takes us back to the user management here, where we can start to
change who has access to the product itself.
Next we have the JIRA configuration.
This is a great example of how beneficial it can be to be familiar with Jiras administrative settings,
because earlier in this course we learned about forms.
But when I recorded that video forms in JIRA were not available to the public.
You couldn't make a public form.
Then Atlassian came out with an update that allowed you to make forms public.
And then I did record a standalone video that you'll actually find in the next section, so you can
see that update.
And then I will be going back to update the earlier video in my normal course update sequence, but
before public forms were even an option.
Obviously up in here we couldn't actually turn off public access for forms.
This whole area right here did not exist when I recorded the earlier version of this course.
So that's an example of how things can change in JIRA.
And then in the administration area.
Some of these settings obviously will change as functionality inside of JIRA changes as well.
Now as JIRA administrator, we can control whether or not forms can even be public.
So that was not even an option before.
But now we can come in here and if we want to turn off public access for forms, we can do that in the
JIRA configuration.
Next we have the storage management.
This is where we can see the size of attachments that our users have added to work items.
This is not really as big of a deal for your cloud users, since those attachments are all stored on
Atlassian servers.
And then with your ongoing subscription, they will conveniently let you know when you need to pay for
more space.
But if you are hosting Jira yourself and you need to manage your servers storage, this can be a great
place to see what is taking up all that space.
Under the integrations, we have application links.
You'll notice confluence is already linked to JIRA here, and that's because I am paying for a confluence
license in addition to Jira.
And since that is all part of Atlassian's cloud licensing, they handle all the integrations.
But we can create new links in here if we want to do that manually.
Speaking of paying for additional apps, we have compass.
Now this might be a setting that you want to change.
If, like me, you are not using a compass license for components.
You can see when we learned about components even earlier in this section.
By default JIRA wants to use compass components.
We can change that default.
So new projects use JIRA components.
We can change that default right here.
And then lastly here we have DVC which stands for the Distributed Version Control System.
Atlassian not only owns JIRA, they have a lot of different apps and products that we've looked at throughout
this course, but they also own Bitbucket.
That's one of those apps that they own.
Bitbucket is a popular repository tool.
So if you are using Bitbucket for your code, then you can configure that connection in here.
Now in my case you can see I have this really old music app that I called Mighty Music that I had in
Bitbucket for many, many years ago.
And that is still connected in here.
But as you start to link things in, if you link in a different Bitbucket cloud workspace, you can
see that connection right in here.
So that is all of the product settings.
Realistically, not a lot of settings in here that you'll be making changes to on a daily basis.
But as a JIRA administrator, it is helpful to know what options you have available to you.
Switching from products to projects in Jiras admin.
These are the settings that you'll be using more often than in products, Of course, we can access
projects from the left menu in Jira.
If we come back to JIRA itself, we can see all of the different projects here.
And when we come in here to view all projects, we're seeing a very similar list to when we come in
here to the projects in the administration area.
You can see all of the different projects in here.
So this is just a nice place where we can come in and do any sort of maintenance that we need to do
to these different projects.
Now, depending on how many different projects you are using, JIRA has the ability to organize those
into categories.
In my experience, this is not really used a lot because it's not really for tracking work, but rather
for just organizing the projects on the back end.
But it is worth pointing out in case you find it beneficial.
If you want to start organizing your projects into different categories.
And then the trash and archives are fairly straightforward, when a project is deleted, it will go
into the trash for 30 days before being permanently erased.
Kind of like the recycle bin or trash on a mac recycle bin on windows.
So if you need to restore a project after it's been deleted within that time frame, this is where you're
going to go to do that.
Alternatively, if you do not want to delete a project, you can archive it and then archiving the project
hides it from being visible in the interface for users, or when they search for work items or search
for things.
Anything that is archived will not show up in this search.
But as the administrator, you can come in here and then restore an archive project if you want to do
that.
Of course, as you can see, I do not have any deleted or archived projects in my installation at the
moment.
But now that you know that these settings exist, you'll know where to go to take advantage of them
if you need to do that on your site.
Now there are a couple more items in Jiras administrative settings to look at, but let's take a quick
break here and when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video where we'll get an overview of Jiras
work items and app settings.

--- Overview of Jira's Admin Settings: Work Items and Apps ---

In this video, we'll continue getting a high level overview of JIRA admin settings by looking at the
work items and apps.
Now, I mentioned this before, but just as a quick refresher, we have looked at a lot of these settings
already throughout this course.
But if you do want to see a course that digs into any of these administrative settings in more depth,
let me know.
The purpose of this overview is to get you familiar with what options are available and where they're
located in Jiras administrative area.
And not only can we access any of these settings right here in this menu, but over here on the left
hand side, we can switch between them as well.
Up here at the top of the Work Items settings, we have the new work item search which you can see Atlassian
is saying, okay, we're going to be moving all users to a new search.
Now I would expect that this particular setting is a temporary option.
I don't expect it to last long because we can see it's a new search, right?
New only lasts for so long.
But I want to point it out because over the years of using JIRA, I've noticed that it lasting when
they make updates to the software.
Sometimes these settings get just get added to the top of this left side menu over here before being
integrated into the settings below.
Moving along, we have the work type hierarchy.
By default, there are three levels of work types.
We've learned about epics as kind of being the parents to stories right here and then.
The stories can have subtasks.
That is all default in JIRA, and in most cases you will not need to customize that.
But if you do and you want to make those changes, you can change that hierarchy right here.
Now we already learned about work types, but this is just an overall list of the work types across
all of Jiras company managed projects.
So you can see that here.
You can see we have multiple pages of different types of work types, including that default subtask
work type as well.
And then any schemes that those work types are tied to, connecting them into the different projects
that again, we've looked at throughout this course as well.
Speaking of schemes, we have the work type schemes right here.
We did learn that schemes tie those entities to projects.
So in this case the work type scheme is how we connect the work types to one or more company managed
project inside of Jira.
Again, not team managed projects.
That's an important distinction because team managed projects have self-contained entities, so we cannot
share work types from one team managed project to another only company managed projects.
And then this is where we do that in the global JIRA administrative area right here.
Now just a moment ago, when we looked at the hierarchy, if we do want to add in different types of
subtasks, so a different subtask work type, we can do that in here or we can turn off subtasks entirely.
If we want to disable that across our JIRA installation, we can do that here.
By default, they are enabled and I would encourage you to leave them enabled.
And unless you have a specific reason to turn them off for your users.
But if you do, you can disable those right here.
Moving along, we have workflows.
We've already talked about workflows, but we can just see a list of all of them in Jiras admin right
here.
The active workflows as well as any inactive workflows, older workflows that were not being used currently,
as well as the workflow schemes that connect those workflows to projects.
And the same with screens.
We've already learned what screens are and how JIRA uses those to determine which fields show up on
work types.
And then, of course, these screen schemes that connect those screens to our projects inside JIRA,
as well as the work type screen schemes which control the fields for specific work types in a project.
For example, if you want your users in the customer service project to be able to use a bug work type
and then fill out maybe the operating system field on that bug work type.
But maybe for the development project, the bug work type doesn't need that operating system field.
All of that can be configured through these schemes.
And speaking of fields, we already looked at how fields work.
But the next option here on the left hand side are all of the fields across JIRA as well.
We can see all of those here, a list of all the fields being able to filter those if you want to do
that, as well as if we deleted fields and want to bring those back.
We can see that in here.
And then with the fields we also have field configuration.
We've already looked at field configuration as well.
So we can use this to determine which fields are required.
Fields for example.
And then the field configuration schemes that will then And a tie.
Those fields that field configuration.
So which required fields are required in different projects.
Next we have all the priorities.
Now in my experience I've really never had to change the default priorities.
These are the default priorities that JIRA comes with.
But if you do need to make those changes, you can do that in here.
And then you can use the priority schemes to connect what priorities are in different projects.
You can see here all the different projects that I have in my JIRA installation are using the default
priority scheme, but you can start to customize all of that in here.
We've also touched on time tracking, and while this is fairly straightforward, I do want to reiterate
that JIRA is time tracking is not a stopwatch to actually track the seconds, minutes, and hours as
you are working.
But these settings are vital to things like reports.
So when we see the reports inside JIRA, how many working hours are per day?
You know how many days per week to start to track that for things like sprints?
And when we type in the due date, we looked at the automation for due date when it's within one week.
What does one week mean?
How many working days are within one week?
Right.
So we start to, uh, change some of those settings in here if we want to do that globally across all
of Jira.
And similarly we looked at linking work items together already.
But you can create custom links or remove any links that are not being used in here.
And we've also learned about statuses, but we can manage all of those in here globally across Jira
as well.
We've looked at how to do that earlier in this course, and we've also looked at resolutions, which,
as we learned, are a way of tracking work that's completed in that completed status.
Did we actually get that done or are we just closing the work item so it's not showing up as something
that we still need to do.
Resolutions can add a little bit more context to that sort of scenario.
The work item security schemes are something that we haven't really talked about much, but basically
they give another layer of control over who can see work.
For example, I've had to use this before when the customer service team received some negative feedback
from clients that we didn't want other team members to see right away until the customer service team
had a chance to process it and see how much of it was actually valid.
So being able to control who can see what in different projects can be helpful sometimes.
And then lastly here we have a few more schemes to control things like when JIRA is sending notifications
in different projects or for the overall permissions for those projects.
And of course, we've looked at permission schemes earlier in this section as well.
But that's a quick overview of all the work item settings.
But before we wrap up this video, I did want to point out the app settings real quick.
So if we come into the app settings here, I've mentioned this a few times throughout, but I am not
using any extra apps outside of Jira itself.
If you are using additional apps, you can find the settings connecting them to JIRA in here so we can
manage those apps.
We can see any sort of requests if users are requesting some apps, some add ons that we want to use
alongside Jira, we can see those requests here.
Just keep in mind that usually those apps are third party apps or those apps require a separate license
in addition to Jira.
And so that can start to cost an extra license fee.
But we can start to manage all of that in here.
Or you can head over to explore Atlassian Marketplace to find all the different types of apps that are
available that can help you extend Gira's capability.
And as we can see here, there are a lot of different apps.
And that's a big reason why we're not adding in extra apps to this course.
Because if you think there's over a thousand different apps or plugins or add ons, they've used different
terms over the years.
Currently they're called apps.
But this can add a lot of different capability to your Gira installation that can really customize it.
And I would encourage you to come in here and look for some of these apps that can help your team,
but there's no way for me to know on this side which of these thousands of apps you are using on your
site.
So if you do want to learn more about any specific app, by all means that can be a separate course
that we focus on that app.
Just let me know about that.
But when we're talking about Gira at the base level, that's why we're not using any extra apps in this
course.
Now there are a few Atlassian administrative settings down here.
User management and billing.
We have looked at these.
We looked at user management when we were looking at the users and how to bring users into JIRA, looking
at things like groups as well.
And then we have billing, which for privacy purposes I'm not going to open this up, but billing is
fairly straightforward.
How you are actually paying for JIRA and any sort of licenses that you have.
But to recap, in the past few videos, we've gotten an overview of Jiras administration setting.
As I mentioned a few times already, if you would like to see anything more in depth, let me know.
But hopefully now you are more comfortable going into the settings to see what options are there and
how you can start to use them to customize your own JIRA installation.
And with that, we've come to an end of this course.
But the learning doesn't stop here.
So if you have a couple more minutes, I'll see you in the next video to wrap up this course and give
some suggestions for where you can keep learning more about JIRA.

--- Course Summary and Where to Go from Here ---

You made it to the end of this course all about understanding JIRA for users, managers and administrators.
Congratulations!
You've come a long way over the past few hours, and in that process, you learned some of the key concepts
and terms that Jira uses.
You also learned the basics of using JIRA, working with filters, work types, work items, as well
as both Scrum and Kanban boards, team and company managed projects.
You also learned how to set up those projects and agile boards for your team and walking through Jiras
typical workflows.
And finally, you got to see how Jira works on the back end by looking at some of the fundamental aspects
of Jiras administration area.
Of course, every team is unique, and you're bound to come across plenty of things that we didn't have
a chance to cover in this introductory level JIRA course.
When that happens, feel free to ask a question in the Q&amp;A and I will try to answer it.
Or maybe create a video response.
You can watch all the video responses in the next section after this one.
Some questions are more in depth though, so if you need me to create a new course covering different
topics that you need, let me know.
But if you're like me, then when you come across something that you need done, you probably won't
have time to wait for me to create a course about it.
So there are two things that I recommend.
The first is to create a new project to test some of the things out, and find the ways that the features
in JIRA will work best for your team.
You don't need to wait on this.
You can start as soon as you're done here, and just start playing around with all of these different
features that you've looked at in this course, and see how all of it works together.
And perhaps most importantly, start putting thought into how you can best organize everything for your
organization.
But in my experience, having a sandbox to test things in is one of the best ways to learn.
The other thing that I would recommend is to take advantage of the extremely in-depth documentation
that Atlassian has for JIRA.
You can find that through the help icon on the top right of Jiras interface, or just by searching on
Atlassian's website over@atlassian.com.
And lastly, don't be afraid to reach out to Atlassian's amazing support team.
I'm not affiliated with Atlassian at all, but I've used their support team many times over the years
and I've had nothing but positive experiences.
Even if it's just running an idea by them for how to best configure something inside of JIRA.
Thank you so much for hanging out with me for the past few hours as we've learned about how JIRA works.
Bye for now.

--- Introduction to Tips and Tricks for Everyone ---

Hello and welcome to this section full of tips and tricks in JIRA.
This section is where I'm going to put my answers to any Udemy Q&amp;A that everyone would benefit from
learning.
So you'll notice a wide range of topics and a wide range of different versions of JIRA as this section
periodically gets updated here and there, depending on the questions that roll in.
And of course, if you have questions as you're watching through any of the videos in this course,
throw them in Udemy's Q&amp;A for a chance at a video reply.
So think of this more like the a la carte section, where you can browse around to watch any of the
videos from questions that other learners have had that might help you on your journey to understanding
JIRA.

--- How to get issues to show up on scrum and kanban boards at the same time ---

Dan: Hey everyone, Dan here.
In this special bonus video,
we're gonna answer a question from Jason.
So Jason's question is a great one.
You can see it here on the screen.
Essentially, he's asking if it's possible to have
the same data on both a Scrum board and a Kanban board
at the same time?
Now in Jason's case, it sounds like he's wanting
a frontend dev team to use the Scrum board,
which is perfectly fine have the frontend dev team
working under Scrum and then the backend dev team
maybe wants to use a Kanban board,
but being able to see the information on both.
So having the frontend dev team's issues
show up on the Kanban board and vice versa.
Jason's curious what would happen
if someone on the frontend dev team on the Scrum board
moved an issue across a swimlane on the Scrum board,
what would that look like on the Kanban board
for the backend dev team?
So let's take a look at this.
I thought it would be a lot easier to show this
in an actual video than to type up a response to Jason here.
So let's come in.
I have a completely new, fresh installation of Jira here.
And before we begin,
I'm going to create a couple simple projects
just with some sample data so that we can work with this.
So I'm gonna create a new project
and one of these I'm gonna come into create sample data.
That'll give us some issues and some boards to work with.
So we have Scrum, I'm gonna start with Scrum.
That will be the frontend dev team.
So there's the front team, Submit.
This will take a little bit longer
than just creating a project because Jira is gonna go in
and actually create some issues for us, an actual board.
You can see here's the board.
It's created a few different things.
So before we do anything on here,
let's come in and create another project here.
So we're gonna create project, sample data
and same thing, except this time I'm gonna do a Kanban board
and this will be our backend dev team.
There we go, Submit.
And exact same process is at this time
Jira is going to create a Kanban project.
It's essentially with a Kanban board.
All right, so before we begin,
I wanna clarify some terminology
'cause Jason mentioned moving issues across a swimlane.
So this here is a swimlane.
You can see it horizontally here across all of the columns.
So these are columns. This is the Backlog column.
This is the Selected for Development column.
This is the In Progress column,
currently has two when the max is one,
that's why it's showing is red.
The Done column.
So I'm assuming what Jason is talking about moving issues
on the board, he's talking about moving them
across these columns.
So taking something from the Backlog on the Kanban board
and moving it to the Selected for Development
and so on.
Instead of actually moving across swimlanes,
'cause you can't actually move between different swimlanes
like this on this particular board.
Okay, so that's what I'm assuming that he is talking about.
Not actually moving across swimlanes
but moving across these different columns.
And the answer to Jason's question, a very simple one is yes
and we're gonna look at how we can do this.
So now that I have these set up, really what defines,
what shows up on these boards is the filter.
So this is the backend board, but let's say I wanna show
all of the frontend team's issues on this board as well.
So I'm gonna come into the Board, I'm gonna Configure it
and we wanna come into the filter.
So you can see the filter.
One is automatically created for us
when you created this sample data here.
I'm gonna edit the query.
And when I edit the query, what I wanna do
is come in and adjust this
to give us the search results that will include
more than just the backend dev team's project.
So I wanna also include the frontend dev team as well.
So give it a moment to load here.
It's gonna load this query.
There we go. Here's our query.
Now you can see the project is back.
So it's only showing back.
I actually wanna also show front.
Very simple query as far as this is concerned.
As soon as I do this, I have the option to save
because I have made a change.
Now when I save this filter,
because it's associated with the project,
if I go back, let's come back to the configure board.
There we go.
And actually I'm gonna go back one more
so I can actually go to the board.
There we go.
So now, you can see I can actually see
some of the frontend dev team's issues on this board.
And then on the frontend side on the Scrum board,
all I would have to do is the exact same thing.
I'm gonna come into Boards here, go into the...
I'm on the BACK board, I'm sorry.
I need to go to the FRONT board.
The frontend team's being the Scrum board.
So you can see this here.
We have an actual Backlog over here,
To Do, In Progress, Done.
You can see the sprint going on on this Scrum board.
So all I need to do here to show the backend team's issues
is to configure it, adjust the query
and very similar, except this time I'm just gonna take this,
yes, I wanna see the backend as well.
I'm clicking off over here
that kind of closes outta that menu
and then I can save this query.
And now if I go back to the Board,
so go back to the frontend team's board.
Now I will be able to see
some of the backend team's issues as well.
However, you'll notice, I don't see them on here.
And the reason for this has to do
with how the board reads these issues.
Okay, so that is how the issues are mapped.
So to see this, I'm gonna open one of these up in a new tab.
And we can see that this particular issue, FRON-11,
is this issue here.
It is currently in the In Progress column.
And this is very important for the boards
to understand how the boards relate
to the actual individual issues.
So it's in the In Progress column.
And in here, you can see the status is In Progress.
Okay, so these two things,
even though they're called the same thing in this sample
are not the same as far as Jira is concerned.
This status is only on this issue.
It just so happens that there is a column
also called In Progress that will show
that any issues that have a status of In Progress.
Now we can adjust this and when we configure the board
and change it to show projects,
so when we show the backend dev team's issues,
you can see it's giving us this little warning saying,
hey, you added, you changed this query,
is showing some new statuses
that aren't gonna be shown on the board.
That's why we didn't see the backend dev team's issues
on this board.
So we need to come into Columns here.
And you can see here's our columns, here's the statuses,
and over here we have a new area
that says unmapped statuses.
So these are the statuses that are,
in this case, showing on the backend dev team.
So let's say we wanna show everything
from the Kanban board's Backlog
which is really just another column
and showing that status.
So we can say that.
We could drag these wherever we wanted.
We could put this in Done.
It really depends on how you wanna set up your team.
Once you have these mapped.
Now if we go back to the board here,
a little faster to do that.
Now we should be able to see any issues
that are showing up from the backend dev team.
It looks like they're not showing up.
So let's actually...
Oh, the reason why is because of the sprint.
So we have a sprint started.
And on this particular case with a Scrum board,
the sprint is a unique identifier.
So all of these show,
all of these issues have the sprint field on them.
So you can see the sprint.
What the sprint is that it's associated with.
Whereas anything in the Backlog,
essentially there's no sprint associated with this yet
which makes perfect sense if you think about it,
'cause if it comes from a Kanban board,
it's not gonna be associated with a sprint
because that's the difference between Scrum and Kanban.
There's no sprint for Kanban.
So all of these backend tickets
that are showing up in our filter now,
they're showing up properly
and they will show up when we change the status.
But that's one of the differences
between a Kanban board and a Scrum board
is the Scrum board has this special little feature
of the sprint that the Kanban board does not.
And so in order for something to be shown
on the Active sprint tab here,
you can see if I expand this, this is the Active sprints.
That's what your frontend dev team
is gonna be working from day to day.
For something to show up here,
it would actually have to be associated with that sprint.
So we would have to take this, this issue here
and actually bring it into the sprint.
Now this will theoretically affect the scope
because you're technically adding a new issue.
However, in my experience, what I've found is,
because, in this case, the backend dev teams works Kanban,
they don't care about the sprint at all anyway
because they're not using sprints.
So this is really just for display purposes.
Once again, it completely depends on your teams,
how strict they are on running the sprints,
how strict they are on the scope and so on.
Jira is just letting you know that,
hey, you're adding a new issue to an active sprint
and it's giving you that confirmation.
Once we add that, that will show up here.
So now it's on our backend.
We can drag this over.
The reason why we're seeing two of those
is 'cause I map two statuses to this particular column.
So let's take a look at what will happen on the other board
when we do this.
So that was another part of Jason's question here.
We're nearing the end.
Let me pull this open into a new tab.
I'm gonna pull this into a new window
just so we can see what will happen when I do this.
So let's find this issue.
So this is BACK-1.
Okay, so this is this issue right here.
Make this a little bit smaller.
Limited screen, space here to record with.
So let me see if I can actually get this to see.
So, all right.
So let's take this guy and I'm gonna take this
and I'm gonna drag this over to Selected for Development.
So watch, when I drag this BACK-1,
watch what happens to this ticket right here
on the Scrum board.
So as soon as I drag it over, there we go.
Now this will update.
See, I didn't have to refresh. It updates automatically.
Depending on your internet speed,
it may take a second as you saw right there.
But it will update.
And the reason why it moves to In Progress
is because we mapped that status
to that column.
So when we come back to Configure,
we have this status
in the column.
So in the Columns you can see
Selected for Development is in the In Progress column.
That's why it's showing up right here.
If I open this issue up in a new window,
you can see the status is Selected for Development.
That's why it's showing up right here.
All right. So hopefully that makes sense, Jason.
A simple answer is yes, you can do this.
It has to do with how your columns are mapped to statuses.
And then when you drag them back and forth,
they will update.
So on the Scrum, if we were to take this back to there,
you'll see it jumps back.
How they're mapped on the Scrum board
as well as on the Kanban board,
because on the Kanban board,
you also have the exact same capability
of mapping the columns to statuses.
That's something that's across
all of the issues.
So you can see here we have one that actually came
from our frontend dev team project
that had some issues with the status of To Do.
It's not on here, so they're not going to be displayed
as it is right now.
As soon as I take this and move it over
into one of these columns,
all of those issues would show up here.
So the primary difference
just to kind of summarize this here,
primary difference between these two
is the Scrum board does have a sprint.
So if you want to show something on the Scrum board
from a team using Kanban,
you have to add it to the active sprint
to have it show up here.
On the Kanban board, it's a little more lenient
because it does not have that extra sprint field,
meaning that you can just adjust the filter
and it will automatically show up here.
Now in my personal experience,
I've done this sort of thing quite a bit
between different teams.
And what I've really found is that it's helpful
when a team, say a team lead or even an an entire team
wants to be able to see the status of something
or maybe the status of multiple teams or multiple projects
without affecting the team's day to day.
So it's easier to go to create a Kanban board
and have things show up on here
because you don't have to have an active sprint.
So usually what I would do is,
if a team is working with Scrum,
you can have this team working with Scrum
maybe another team working with Scrum, so on and so forth.
You can create a Kanban board that has a filter
that shows all of those different issues
and you can see all of the issues
and what their current status is
based on the column that you set up
and how you map those to the issue statuses.
It is a little more difficult to go back the other way
because you have the active sprint
that it has to have that field associated with.
And that is a manual task
that you would have to drag that in.
And that's specifically manual
because Jira wants to make sure
that you are not adding tickets to an active sprint
without doing it consciously.
Otherwise your team would get a bunch of tickets added
to their board and they'd think they'd have to work on them
and it can get confusing really, really quickly.
So hopefully this answers your question, Jason.
I know this went on a little bit longer than usual
but hopefully answers your question
as well as anyone else who might come across
this same scenario.
Thanks for watching.

--- How to move issues between projects ---

Instructor: Hi everyone.
Dan here.
I just wanted to answer a quick question
from Joshua and I thought it would
be easier to do in a video.
So the question from Joshua is.
Is there a way to move a ticket that's been placed
in the wrong project into another project?
Right now it sounds like Joshua
is copying and pasting that information
and, yes, there definitely is a better way.
So I'm gonna walk
through the process of how to do that
and then I'll might add a few little tips and tricks
that I might recommend afterwards.
So let's walk through this first.
First, I'm gonna hop into Jira
and I have a couple sample projects
that I've created in here
but let's create a new issue.
And this issue.
Something for a marketing team.
There we go.
Let's say we've created all this.
We added a description.
Added everything that we want.
Create this issue.
And then, oh no, wait a minute.
This has been added to graphics not marketing.
So what we'll wanna do is find that issue.
Now we can find the issue that we've recently created
either in that little popup.
But if that goes away,
you can come under issues.
And then any recent issues
which the issues that you create will be added
to your recent issues.
So you can find that right here.
So that's this guy here.
Graphic seven.
Now if we wanted to move this
into the marketing team's project we can go to more.
Move.
And then Jira will walk us through this process.
So essentially what it's saying is,
"Okay, what project do you wanna move this into"?
I wanna move this into the marketing team.
So this project here.
And then, what type of issue do you want this to become?
Right now it is a task.
And either I could keep it as a task
or I could change it to a story, a bug,
any sort of issue type that this project has.
So let's say we wanna transition this to be a story.
Which would, let's just say that's the default
for the marketing team, for the graphics team.
The default is a task.
So we wanna change that.
Hit next.
So the next thing that we'll wanna do
is assign story points.
And this is a hundred percent dependent
on the settings that you have in your project.
Since I have just in this particular project.
It's a scrum project
and I have story points assigned to it.
We need to do this.
Now depending on the fields
that you have you may or may not.
Jira will walk you through all of the steps.
So I'm just gonna add in story point.
There we go.
So this is what Jira's going to do.
It will always give you this confirmation
before you actually move anything which is really nice.
So this is the original value.
You can see it was in the graphics project, it was a task.
The status or the workflow that it has
is the graphics workflow.
And if you watch the videos in this course
about workflow you'll see why this is important
because depending on the project,
you may be dealing with different types of workflows.
And you may need to determine how those
will get mapped when you move those issues.
So in the new project, this will be marketing.
This will be a story.
And this will be using
the software simplified workflow for project.
That's just the default that the Jira gave it
for this particular project.
And then because this project,
or this issue type rather,
has a required value on story points,
we had to assign a story point value to it.
And as I mentioned before, depending on what issue type
if you change the issue type, what the project settings are,
there may be some required fields.
That's why I wanted to make sure
that we had one in there to kind of show that process.
As soon as I click move, this issue is going to move.
Now, before I do that, I wanna point something out.
So this is graphics seven.
I'm gonna open this in a new tab.
Here and then I'm gonna come in and move.
And we'll see why I did that here in a second.
So I'm gonna hit move.
Jira is going to go through the process of moving this.
In this case, since it was just one issue,
it's really fast to do.
You can see now this is marketing number 24.
That's the issue key.
Now what's really cool about this
is graphic seven which is what this issue used to be.
If anything is linked to this,
if I'm linked to this anywhere,
if somebody wants to go to this,
if they search for this, or whatever,
if they go to this URL with the issue key of graphic seven,
Jira will automatically forward them
to the new ticket.
Because it knows that this issue
has been created or has been moved.
There's no longer a graphics seven issue.
And that's really important to keep in mind
because Jira is keeping that unique key intact.
There will never be another graphic seven issue.
It will always forward to this one.
Or if I move it to another project,
it will forward there and so on.
Jira keeps track of all of that in the backend for you.
All right, so that is how you can move an issue
from one project into another one.
Now, if that's all you wanted to know, that's great.
I'm just gonna offer a couple little tips
and tricks that might come in handy.
What you can do.
I'm gonna close out of this here.
And let's come back in.
And if you notice on my dashboard here.
You'll notice that there's quite a few issues in here.
Let's say we wanted to move multiple issues
at once into a new project.
Let's say we created a bunch of issues really quickly
and we just moved them into the wrong one.
Or we want to move more than one at a time.
What we can do is come in
and search for those issues.
So all of these various things like how to search,
how to create filters,
all that kind of stuff I cover in the course.
So I'm moving pretty quickly
just to answer this particular question
and kind of cover that.
Let's say we wanna find everything
that's in, let's say, the development team.
Everything that is a bug.
There we go, so let's say, all of these.
We wanna move them into the marketing project.
I don't know why we'd wanna move the bugs
into the marketing project
but just for the sake of this example,
let's say we wanted to do that.
So these are the three issues that we have.
We wanna move them into the marketing project.
Once you have the search results
which we can see here.
Once we're happy with these results showing
these three issues,
we can go to tools, bulk change, all three issues,
and then from here we can choose.
You know what, I really only just wanted to move this one.
Or this one.
Or if you wanted to you can move all of them.
You do have the option to check those.
So I'm gonna say all of them.
I want to move these issues.
Hit next.
And we want to move them.
And this is, looks very familiar to what we just did
except this is going for three different types of issues
or three different issues, rather.
I wanna move them into the marketing team
and we want them to be a task.
There we go.
We're just changing the thing.
You don't have to change the issue type
if you don't want to.
We can see, oh, it looks like there's a issue here so.
This will.
Bug issue type has a field, the fixed version.
We're gonna have to change this.
Or we can retain it.
That's fine.
I'm not going to send an email.
This is something I learned.
I learned by accident by not unchecking this.
And anybody who is watching any of those issues.
Or anybody who has, essentially, anybody
who has created the issues,
anybody who's updated them,
they will all get an email notification
that these issues have moved.
I've moved thousands and thousands of issues
at a time with this process
and you don't wanna be sending out thousands and thousands
of emails by accident.
So make sure that you actually want to send an email
to everybody if you don't uncheck this.
Hit next.
And once again we'll have our confirmation.
Yes, this is what we wanna do.
Emails will not be sent.
We want to move these three issues
from the bugs issue type in the web development project.
It will be moved into marketing.
It'll be a task.
And the new value
for the fixed versions will be 2.0
as opposed to being in the project of web development.
Again, this particular thing is just has to do
with the particular fields that we have on that issue type.
You may or may not come across this depending on
how your project is set up.
Once we confirm this,
Jira will go through the process of moving those.
It's been done and now we have our issues.
If we hop into our marketing.
We will see,
oh, we changed them to a task.
There we go.
So we've added these.
These were the Dev issues.
You can see in the title it still says Dev.
It doesn't actually change any of the text within there.
It's only going to change the link.
You can see no longer is it Dev 13.
Now it's marketing 26.
All right, so hopefully that answers your question, Joshua,
on how you can move an issue into a new project.
You just wanna go into more.
And then move
and then walk through the little wizard
that Jira will take you through each step of the way.
Or you can come into your search
and do a bulk change on multiple issues
in order to move a bunch of them
at the same time and save a lot of time.

--- How to show the search dropdown boxes ---

-: (Dan) Hey everyone, Dan here.
Ken had a great question.
So I thought I'd put
together a little video to best show the answer.
All right, so here is Ken's question.
He says the search dropdown boxes show in section three
lecture 13 at three minutes and 45 seconds.
Those dropdown boxes are not visible for him.
He can't see them.
So first, let's take a look
at what dropdown boxes Ken is referring to.
Now, you're welcome to find this section in the course
but, just brevity, we can show it right here.
So that is these dropdown boxes here.
So to get to this screen
I went to issues, search for issues.
And then you'll see, essentially all these dropdown
boxes do is they filter based on whatever you choose.
So if you want to filter based on project by issue
type by status, assignee, or even anything else.
So really any field that you want to filter by
you can do that using these dropdown boxes.
Now, Ken is not seeing those.
So let me pull over this screen here
where I think what is happening
to Ken is happening on this screen.
So you can see...
Oh, let me refresh the page here.
The top bar wasn't showing up.
All right, so you can see what is happening here.
It's the same search,
if I go to issues, search for issues,
it's the same screen but there's no dropdown boxes.
Instead, we have this query.
Now this is a JQL query, and essentially what this is
is this is the advanced search, okay?
So if I were to pull this down, we can see the difference.
So essentially the same screen,
but instead of having these dropdown boxes
we have the ability to actually type
in a much more advanced search.
Now, you can switch between these using this advanced link
here or this basic link, but you notice down here
this basic link is grayed out.
I cannot click on it.
See, if I were to click on it, Jira is going to
tell me that this query is too complex.
What that means is this query that we have in here is not
something that we can recreate using these dropdowns
or the basic search mode.
So what we would need to do is to either just continue
using our advanced search, and Atlassian has great
documentation on all the different things that you can use
in your search to really find whatever you may want.
But if you wanna get back to your basic search
mode and use these dropdowns, once you're in advanced mode
and this is grayed out, you'll have to simplify the search
so that it is something that
can be done with these dropdowns.
So in this example, this part right here of
the status not being resolved
so this is searching for anything
in the featured project
and with the status "is not resolved".
And this part right here, the status
this particular part being "is not resolved"
is not something that you can do with the basic.
If I come over here
you can see there's no way that we can do that.
Right?
So if I hop back into my advanced here and clear this out
and then hit search, watch what happens over here.
As soon as I do that, this is now a link.
I can click on this to bring back my dropdowns
and everything is good to go.
All right, so I really hope that that helps Ken.
One thing that he did mention in there is
that, tried to enter an image, but it doesn't seem to work.
Now, that may be with Udemy's question and answer,
I think that's what you're referring to there, Ken
is that you're not able to actually
upload it using Udemy's Q&amp;A,
and if this video does not help, if that's not
the actual issue, it is kind of hard to tell exactly
what's going on on your side without seeing a screenshot
or being able to actually see what's going on there.
But that is the only place to turn off
those dropdown boxes inside of Jira.
So if something else is going on
I would love to see a screenshot
and hopefully I'd be able to help out.
If this does not help
and you're not able to upload an image
feel free to shoot me a message directly
and then I can give you my email and we can send along,
you can send along a screenshot
and we can figure out what's going on there.
All right, thanks.

--- Understanding "Automatic" assignees ---

Instructor: In this video,
we're gonna answer a question from Steven.
So Steven's question, as you can see here is,
he wants to know about the automatic assignee.
What does that mean?
Well, let's take a look at exactly what Steven's talking
about and then we we'll learn about what this means.
So I'm gonna hop into Jira here
and let's just create an issue.
So the automatic assignee, if we scroll down,
you notice the assignee right here.
By default, it's set to automatic.
Now I can assign it to me, I can go through the dropdown
and assign it to any of the people on my team.
But what does it mean when this is set to automatic?
Well, that's what we're gonna learn.
So I'm gonna cancel out of this
and let's hop over to the settings.
Go to projects
because we can change the automatic assignee based
on the project.
So you can see right here,
I have two projects in my Jira instance right now
and currently the default assignee,
this is who it's going to go to when I set it as automatic,
when I create a new issue.
Right now, it's set to unassigned.
Now, in order to edit this
you might think I can come in, hit edit here,
it's not actually going to be where
you can edit the default assignee.
What we need to do is to go into the project,
so let's say I want to change it for feature requests,
come into feature request and then go to users and roles.
And under users and roles,
you can see the project lead is me
and then the default assignee is unassigned.
So if I edit the defaults,
I can change what the default assignee is.
Now you'll notice there's only a couple options
and out of the box you can't change these two options.
So either you have the project lead,
which you can change who the project lead is,
you could change this to whoever you wanted.
So let's say I wanted to change this to somebody else,
I could, you know, make that Barry Allen if I wanted to
or somebody else on my team.
And then when I set this, as soon as an issue is created
in this particular project, the feature request project,
if I set it to automatic, it will be assigned
to Barry Allen instead of being unassigned.
Now that's basically all that means,
now there's one other thing I wanna cover real quick
and you notice the unassigned the, or the ability to
actually assign something to nobody, to have it unassigned.
Depending on your Jira installation, you may not
have that ability because that is an option that
the Jira administrator can turn off.
So if I come into my system settings here, if I scroll down,
you can see the options allow unassigned issues.
So if I had this turned off,
if I come up and edit my settings here,
I can actually turn that off to allow unassigned issues.
Oh, although currently it's telling me I can't
'cause I have one issue that's unassigned.
So I would have to resolve that first,
assign it to somebody else
before going in and changing this.
But the Jira administrator
does have the ability to turn that off.
So, just to let you know that if you come
across issues where you don't have the ability to leave it
unassigned and you want to do that,
contact your Jira administrator
and they can come in and do that for you.
All right, so thanks for asking that question, Steven.
I really hope that I was able to answer that for you.
Once again, just as a quick recap,
the automatic assignee is exactly what it sounds like.
You can set a default assignee per project
as either being unassigned or whomever the project lead is
and then if you create a new issue in that project,
it will go to whoever the default assignee is.

--- How to tag issues from a sprint with a specific version ---

Instructor: In this video,
we're going to answer a question from Sarab.
Now, Sarab is wondering if there's an easy way to tag
all of the stories in a sprint with a specific version.
So, I thought it'd be faster to do a quick video
to walk through the steps.
So let's hop into Jira here,
and I have a sample project here.
This is a sprint that you can see is going on here.
If I hop into the backlog and into the versions,
you can see I have a version 2.0,
just a simple version that I've set up
just by creating a version.
So how can I get all of these into this version?
Well, one, I could come in and I could just select
all of these.
So left click, hold down, shift, select,
click and drag to add those in there.
That's one way to do it.
This can get to be kind of tough
if it's not the current sprint though.
So, because who knows where those,
you can't see them in the backlog.
So let's look at a different way that we can do this.
I'm going to come in, search for issues,
and let's find all of the issues in the sprint that we want.
So, I'm going to type in sprint.
There we go.
This one, I only have one current sprint,
but if you have more sprints, they should show up here.
You can see whether or not it's active or complete.
There we go.
This is the sprint that I want.
So, all of these issues are the issues
that are in that sprint.
Now let's come up over here to the three dots.
Do a bulk change of all issues.
And in this case, I want to do all of them.
You could pick and choose which ones you want.
Say, if you only wanted to do maybe the stories.
You can see here the types; these are actually bugs here.
If you hover over, it's a bug.
These guys here are stories.
So if I only wanted to do the stories, I could do that.
Just for the sake of this example,
I'm going to do all of them.
Let's click next.
I'm going to edit the issue.
So, I'm going to edit the field values
of these seven issues that I have selected.
And, I want to choose either fixed version
or effects version.
So there's two different ways that you can associate this.
Essentially, effects version would be add to
version 2.0.
That's my version, I could add add multiples if I wanted to.
Essentially, this is just,
it's associated with that version.
Now, you can differentiate that between
if these issues were actually fixed in that version;
say you have a bug or something like that,
that's actually fixed in that version.
You can differentiate between those,
and we'll see how that plays a difference
here in a little bit.
It's really just a matter of organization.
So there's no right or wrong way.
It's really up to you,
and how you organize your Jira instance.
I just recommend being consistent in how you do that.
So once we have that selected to come in, hit next,
I'm going to uncheck send mail.
I'd highly recommend doing this if you have issues that are,
that have other people attached to them,
because then they'll get a ton of emails.
I did this once, I made a change
for thousands of issues at once, added something to it,
and then accidentally sent out emails to the entire company
saying that these issues had been updated.
And then everybody of course emails me
as the Jira administrator, like,
"What's going on?
I thought this was done months ago."
So, uncheck this little thing
if you don't want to send out the emails
for that update for the operation that we're doing.
And then this final screen is going to walk you through
everything that Jira's going to do.
So it's not going to send an email, which is what we want.
Essentially what it's going to do is it's going to
update the fields effects version add to version 2.0.
So all of these are going to get a field
that says it's affecting this particular version,
version 2.0.
I'm going to hit confirm, and then Jira's going to go
through the process of actually editing all of those issues.
And how long this takes really depends on your instance;
like, how many issues you're actually updating.
You can let this run in the background if you want,
just don't close out of this screen.
Hit acknowledge, and there we go.
So, we can test this.
I'm going to clear out this search here,
and let's search for effects versions, version 2.0.
And there we go.
We have all of our issues that are affected in this version.
All right, great.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Thanks for watching.

--- How to fix an error when adding transitions in a workflow ---

Instructor: Hi everyone.
In this video, we'll answer a question
in the course QA section from Gerald.
All right, so Gerald is setting up a workflow.
And if we scroll down,
he provided some great screenshots
to show us what's going on here.
And the screenshots are really helpful, Gerald,
to be able to see exactly what's happening.
So
here is
Gerald's workflow
and what he's wanting to do is to take
an issue from the block status
and allow it to go back to in progress
by basically creating a transition
from blocked to in progress.
But when he does this,
JIRA gives this error, says,
"You cannot perform this operation on a draft workflow."
Now, Gerald, you've actually stumbled
upon a known issue with JIRA.
And as I recall,
this more information link right here,
this is just a screenshot so I can't click on this.
But if I recall,
it doesn't go to this particular documentation,
but this documentation is very helpful, right here.
I'll make sure to put a link to it in the answer
so you can read through this if you want,
but basically what Atlassian is telling us here is
that JIRA has specific code
right here,
that removes the ability
to perform these particular edits
on draft workflows.
okay?
So these edits here
will not be able to be done on a draft workflow.
Now, whether or not it's something
that Atlassian will fix,
if it's a bug or if these are bugs,
or if they're just things that they've determined
that they're not going to allow for whatever reason,
that's only a question that Atlassian can answer.
I can't help with that,
but we can figure out how to work around this, okay?
So the one in particular
that is affecting you, Gerald,
is this one right here.
"If a step has no outgoing transitions,
not global transitions,
then it cannot have any
new outgoing transitions added."
So, if we hop back to Gerald's question here,
you can see
the blocked status has no outgoing transitions.
There's incoming.
It's going into blocked,
but there's nothing going out of the blocked status.
So,
we cannot add a new transition
because there's not already one there.
And that's what this is saying here.
All right, so let's take a look
at how we can fix this.
I've come in and I've created
the exact same workflow.
So this is the workflow that Gerald has here.
I've just duplicated it from a screenshot.
Now, the simplest solution would be
to come into these statuses and tell JIRA
to allow all statuses to transition into this one,
and that's what JIRA's referring to when it says,
"Global transitions are not considered."
So JIRA would allow us to do this.
If we wanted to come in and tell JIRA
to allow all statuses to transition,
we'd have to do it for pretty much all of these
if we wanted to
allow it to go from any status into blocked
or we could just pick particular ones,
if we wanted to do that.
However,
that will allow issues to transition
from any status to any status
if you set that up that way,
or from, you know,
in progress to any status,
or however you set that up.
That is a global thing, right?
And so if you want specific control
over where the issue can go, maybe you do want them,
maybe you do want a specific transition
to go from blocked to in progress.
If I try this, I'm gonna get that exact same error.
It's not gonna let me do that, right?
All right, so let's look at how we can fix this.
Oh, one more thing.
The reason this is happening here
is because I'm editing a draft workflow,
you notice that in the error.
So this is actually an active workflow,
and as soon as I tell JIRA to edit this,
it creates that draft workflow.
That's what it's referring
to when it says a draft workflow, okay?
So that's why this error is happening.
So, you're probably kinda noticing
how cyclical this sounds.
How can I create a new transition
if it has to have one first.
Right?
If I can't create a transition
until there's one already there,
how can I create one?
Well, you have to make this not a draft workflow.
Basically make it an inactive workflow first.
Okay, so to do that,
I'm gonna open up a new tab here
with the schemes,
and I have this set up under this feature request project
just so we can kinda see just as an example.
So,
what we'll wanna do is let's come in
and let's actually come into
all of our workflows here.
And let's take the Gerald's question.
That's just the name of the workflow that I gave it.
Let's copy this.
And I'm gonna give this a name
of this is a temporary workflow.
Oops, can't spell that right.
So what I'm doing here
is I wanna create this temporary one
that's exactly the same.
And then in my workflow scheme,
I wanna come in and I want to actually edit this
and use that new one that I just created,
this temporary one.
Basically migrate everything over to this workflow,
publish that, right?
So I'm associating everything.
And because it's an exact copy,
everything will be migrated automatically.
There's not gonna be any issues, okay?
So this is just a temporary thing that I'm doing.
And by doing this,
not only am I moving things
to this new temporary workflow,
I'm making
this other workflow
over here,
the Gerald's question one,
you can see I have a lot of duplicates back here,
but this one right here is the one
that was active before.
So anytime we edited that,
JIRA would make a draft copy of that.
Now, because it's inactive,
I can come in here and I can edit this.
It's inactive.
I can add my transition.
Okay, so I can come in,
add this in.
There we go.
We've added our transition.
So we can do that
and we could add in however many transitions we want.
But once we have this first transition created here,
if we come back to our workflow scheme,
and let's apply that back.
So I'm gonna come in,
you can see it's just kind of a little bit
of a way around that.
So
next,
assign this,
and associate.
Again, everything's exactly the same
as far as the statuses are concerned.
All we've done now is we've added
in that transition.
And once we have that first transition,
if we come back to our workflow here,
we can see this is active,
I can edit this.
And we can see that we have our transition
that is in there, right?
So we have is blocked going back
or going from in progress to blocked,
and then we have in progress going back that way.
And now, now that I have this,
I can add in another workflow if I wanted to,
if I wanted to say or another transition rather,
if I wanted to do that because I already have
that first transition that's been created.
And of course, don't forget to go back
and clean up your inactive workflows.
So if I go into a new tab here,
under inactive we have these that we've created.
So I'm just gonna delete this,
just kind of clean up
the
unnecessary workflows,
the one that we created as a temporary placeholder basically
while we made
this workflow inactive
so that we could go in
and add that transition back in.
And if you don't want multiple transitions,
you can just get rid of that.
So as you can see,
it's a bit of a workaround.
And by all means,
feel free to reach out to Atlassian
to see if they can fix this limitation,
if it's something that they intend on fixing,
but I can tell you this has been
a known issue for years.
So for now, we just kind of have to work around it.
Now, one last thing I did wanna point out
in your particular case there, Gerald,
with this workflow,
if you hop back to the screenshot here
you'll notice the dotted lines around this.
What that means is
that there's really no way for an issue
to get to these statuses.
So once an issue is created,
it goes to open.
You would need to actually create a transition
from open to in progress
in order to get to those
because right now there's no way
for an issue to get to these other statuses.
So because of that,
I am guessing that you're really just starting
to build the workflow.
You haven't finished it out yet
because you haven't even added a transition
from open to these other statuses, right?
So, in the future my recommendation would be
you can avoid this issue
by building your workflows
while they're inactive.
So don't actually associate your workflow with a scheme
until
you've built it out.
That way the workflow is inactive.
You can add the transitions that you want
and you don't have to worry
about running into this issue again.
So once you make it active,
you probably will have gone in
and added in a transition,
kind of like what we did over here in this tab.
We've added in a transition.
Once we added that one,
we could add transitions
to other statuses however we want to.
But by creating it inactive first
before you actually apply it in a workflow scheme,
you can work around that much easier
without having to run into it again.
Okay, so just to do a quick recap,
the error happens because one,
you're working on an active workflow
that's being edited.
So JIRA's gonna create a draft
of that active workflow.
And two, because there is no outgoing transition
of the status yet.
So there's no outgoing transition
on this block status.
And so that is causing that issue,
the combination of those two things.
And then the workaround
or the fix is to either,
one, use a global transition on your statuses,
or two, you can add the first transition to the status
while the workflow is inactive.
All right, so hopefully that helps
to not only answer your question, Gerald,
but to give some insights
into how you can work around it better in the future.

--- Customizing the issues in a new Agile board ---

Instructor: In this video,
we'll answer a question from Joanne.
Now Joanne's question is kind of a two parter.
The first part is, can you add issues to a new board?
Or will you be changing the original project data
after you create a new board from an existing project?
The answer to this one is yes,
you most certainly can add issues to a new board.
You will not be changing the original project data
because the issues that are on a new board
are affected by the filter.
So let's take a look at this.
I'm gonna come in to all boards
and I'm just gonna create a new board
so we can walk through this step and see what JIRA's doing.
I'm gonna create a Kanban board.
Processes is the same with the scrum board.
You just have your sprints with Kanban board.
It's just a little bit cleaner for this example.
So I'm gonna pull in from an existing project,
cleaner being that we don't have to deal with sprints
and backlogs to see all the issues that we're pulling in.
So let's call this Dev Features,
and I want to pull in the
web development team projects, okay?
Just for this example, I'm pulling in one project.
Create my board, once I've created this board,
so you can see I have the board, I have all of these issues.
If you look at the issue key, you can see they're all
from the web development team project.
I can customize the issues
that are shown on this board by changing the filter.
So if you're not familiar with filters
there's a lesson on that in the course.
But basically if you come search for issues
anytime you do a search, you're just creating a filter.
The thing is with the filter that is associated
with the board, it's a saved filter.
So if we come into our board settings, we scroll down,
we can see the saved filter that's associated
with this board.
Now this filter is created at the point at which we
create the board.
JIRA creates that automatically for us.
We can associate with a different filter if we wanted to,
if we wanted to change this and use one of the other filters
that we have saved.
Or we can come in and edit this filter query in order to
change what we see on our board.
So anything that we change, if for example,
I'm gonna switch back to basic search view,
we can see the project here is Web Development Team.
We told it to only pull in one project.
If we wanna pull in multiple projects, we could do that.
So if I hit save here on this, now if I go back to my board,
now we will have multiple,
you can see the issue keys for feature project
is also being pulled in as well as the dev, okay?
So it's not really affecting those issues.
All that the board is doing is giving us a way
of viewing the issues that are there
and we're just kind of pulling them in via a saved filter.
We can get as advanced as we want with this.
So if for example,
if we wanted to say something like maybe
in the project is the web development team project
you can see the intelligence is pretty nice.
Or maybe the issue type is called new feature.
There we go.
So now what we're doing, if we search this,
is anything in this project,
in the web development team project,
or if it's this specific issue type, okay?
So you can see this specific issue type
which also happens to be in the feature request project.
But when I say this,
we can see how this is affecting the issues that are showing
up on our board.
So you can see these feature requests that are pulling
in as well,
but it's not actually pulling in any stories
or any bugs or anything else that might be in that project.
It's only pulling in the new feature issue type
that we've associated with that save filter.
All right so the second part of Joanne's question has to do
with creating a template, a project template.
It sounds like, Joanne,
like you're wanting to have the same issues
in different projects,
and then just pull that template in
so you don't have to recreate that project every time.
Unfortunately there's not really a project template per se
in JIRA, but we can work around this.
So there's a couple features I'll point out here.
One is, if we go into an issue,
I'm just gonna open this up in a new tab,
and then over here we can come down
and we can clone this issue.
Now the catch here is you'll be doing it one at a time.
So it really kind of depends on your particular situation
and what would work best for you.
But if you clone this issue,
that's going to do exactly what it sounds like.
So you're gonna create an exact copy of this issue.
You're just gonna have two of those instead.
So you could do that once you've maybe cloned them,
then you can move these, the clone if you wanted to,
you could move that into your new project.
You could do it that way.
Another way,
if you have a lot of different issues and going through
one by one, it would be a little too tedious.
You could come in and let's do a search so we could search
for whatever issues we wanted.
Again, exactly the same as a saved filter.
So you could use the filter for your board if you wanted to.
You could come in and do a search for whatever you wanted.
Say if you want to export everything from the
Web Development Team, we could do that.
Come up here, and then you can export this as a CSV.
Once you've exported it as a CSV
you can either do all fields,
which as it sounds like is all fields
associated with the issues
or the current fields that you have displayed.
Those are the current fields.
If we switch to our list view here
that's these fields right here in the column.
So we can change what those fields are
that we want to export.
If we wanted to do that, show it up here in this list view.
Once we export this as a CSV, we could of course as a CSV,
you could pull into Excel,
make any sort of changes you want to it to kind of build
your template and then to import that,
when you create your new project,
you could just come up here
and import issues from CSV, upload that,
and then you would have all of those issues
that have been pulled in.
Now the last thing I wanna point out
is that JIRA's actually pretty extensible.
So we can come in and go into our add-ons
and look in the marketplace and there are some add-ons
for things like templates that might work for you
and depending on what you may need,
this may be something that you would wanna look into doing.
To using one of these templates, like an issue template.
I'm not familiar with these.
I've not used these particular templates myself
but most things do have a free trial.
So you can try it out, see how it works.
The other thing I would recommend is contacting
Atlassian itself.
If you have a cloud subscription with JIRA
you can reach out to Atlassian.
They have great support.
They might be able to offer some tips and tricks
on how you can actually achieve that as well
with your specific instance.
They can walk you through steps
for your specific JIRA installation.
Okay, so hopefully that answers your question,
or at least kind of gives you some direction
on a good way to go
and kind of point you in the right direction there.
Thanks for watching Joanne.

--- Troubleshooting a mismatch in projects ---

-: In this video, we're going to answer a question from Mai.
All right, so Mai's question, which you can find
under the course Q and A, is essentially when clicking
on the project navigation bar, going to view all projects,
there's only four project that show up.
And we can see right here viewing all project types
in all categories, there's four projects.
But then when going to the Jira administration bar
there's seven projects which we can see
in the second screenshot.
So Mai's question is a great one.
Why is there a difference between viewing all projects
in the navigation bar and viewing all projects
in the Jira administration?
And essentially what this boils down to is permissions.
So let's see exactly where we can go
to not only set this sort of scenario up,
where we can replicate this
but then also be able to reverse engineer it
to see how we can troubleshoot this.
And to do this, I have a sample scenario set up.
All right, so this is my Jira installation
and as you can see, I have just a few projects here.
So I have four projects that you can see right here.
And this is going to projects, going to view all projects.
That's how I get to this listing here.
Exactly like what Mai had in his first screenshot.
Now in my case, I actually only have four projects.
I don't have seven projects,
but we can replicate this by coming in
and changing the permissions.
So let's get rid of this web team projects
and hide this from this listing.
To do this, we'll wanna come up
to our Jira administration into issues,
go into the permission schemes
and take a look at the permission scheme
that this project is using.
So this web team project is using
the web dev permission scheme.
Now, if we hop into these actual permissions,
we can see the ability to browse the project is granted
to any logged in user.
So what this means is anybody that's logged in,
which is me, can see this project.
If I change this, let me come in and edit this permission
and let's give this to,
maybe I have a group set up for the web development team.
So changing this to not to be
in the web development team group
and then remove any logged in user.
So only people in the web development team group
can browse this project.
Now just as a real quick side note,
so you can see how this is set up.
If I hop into user management, into my user, you will see
that I am not a part of the web development team group.
So essentially what I've done is,
even though I am the Jira administrator
I've cut myself out of being able to browse this project.
And what that means is if I now come to the project listing
or even just refresh this page, 'cause I'm already here,
if I hit F5 or refresh you'll see the web team disappear.
It's no longer in that listing.
However, because I am a Jira administrator, if I come
into the project's listing under Jira administration,
I can still see that project
because that project still exists.
I just don't have the browse permissions set up.
So Mai, what I have a feeling is going on there,
is somewhere in these projects,
if you take a look at the projects.
You have browse permissions for these four projects
but there are three other projects
that you do not have the permission to browse.
And that's why it's showing up
in the project list for Jira administration
because those projects do exist,
but not showing up under the project list
in the navigation up here.
So now that I've gotten myself into this situation
to get myself out of it should be pretty straightforward.
It's exactly the opposite.
All I would need to do is come into the permission scheme
and make sure that me as a user has permissions to do that.
Now there's a lot of different ways I can do this.
Either I can come in and set a group,
anybody, maybe the administrator's group, which
of course I'm a part of since I'm a Jira administrator.
I can go back and add the application access
to anybody that's logged in if I want.
How you do this, of course, is dependent
on how you want it to be set up.
We could even come in and set it to a single user.
If I wanted to do that and just set it
to me as a user and not me as an administrator
what that would do is any other Jira administrators,
would not see it in their project list.
However, again, it would show up
in the Jira administration list.
So if we did this and then refresh.
We'll see it still showing up in my Jira administration list
which is where I'm at right now.
But if I come back into Libras projects
it should also show up
if I get this dropdown to work there.
There we go.
View all projects and it will show up here
because I've given myself as a user permission
to browse that project.
And this is really the key right here,
this permission that you're looking for.
So I'm gonna come in
and just set this back to the way it was.
Unless you have a reason to hide a project from users
I would recommend just keeping it
at the default to avoid issues like that
where you start to have things
that are not showing up for some users
and is showing up for other users.
I've found in my experience, that can really end up
just being more confusing than it needs to be.
All right? So hopefully that answers your question Mai.
And hopefully that will help you
figure out exactly what permissions
on those three projects that are not showing up
in the project list.
You'll need to change in order to see them again.

--- How to delete a board ---

Instructor: In this video,
we're going to answer a question from Tina.
Now, Tina asks, How do I delete a board?
Very simple question, and fortunately the answer
is fairly straightforward as well,
but I thought it would be quicker to answer this in a video.
So in order to delete a board,
I'm gonna hop over to Jira here, and I'm on my dashboard.
So what we'll want to do is to get
to the view of all boards.
So we hop into the search, the global search bar here.
So we can either use the magnifying glass, click on that,
or we can use the hot key slash in order to open that up.
Once we have this open, if we come down to view all boards,
this is going to take us to the management
of all of the boards that we have access to.
So basically all we need to do now to delete a board
is come over to the three little dots over here,
click on this and then click on delete.
Once we do that, Jira is going to pop up and say,
Are you sure? Because if this, if you delete this board,
there's no getting it back.
There's no way to actually retrieve this board.
It doesn't go into a recycle bin,
or trash, or anything like that.
It actually is deleted permanently right away.
But once we're sure, click on delete
and it's gone, it's been deleted.
So hopefully that answers your question Tina.
It's a fairly straightforward process
of coming in and actually deleting the board
going to the view all board screen
and then coming in and selecting delete boards,
or delete from the drop down here.

--- Understanding boards and filters ---

-: In this video, we're going to answer a question from Mary.
Now, Mary's question essentially is how do you
remove an issue from a scrum board
without actually deleting the issue
from the database entirely,
without deleting that issue entirely?
And she's also not really sure about when you move an issue
from one status to another on the kanban board,
it would move it on a scrum board as well.
Now, one reason why you would do this, Mary, is...
Actually, I've set this up for a team before.
So, let's say you have one team leader,
and he wants to be able to see things going on
in not only his team, but maybe another team as well.
In my particular case, one of the team leaders
for my company actually oversaw two teams.
He had two teams working underneath him.
Each of those teams had a team leader and their own team.
And so this manager wanted to be able to see
everything that was going on with both teams,
but each team needed to have their own scrum boards.
So what I did was I set up their own scrum boards
so each team could sprint.
Team A could sprint, team B could sprint,
but then the manager had their own board,
that was actually a kanban board,
because the manager's not sprinting.
He just wanted to be able to see the status of those issues.
And so what I could do was set up a scrum board.
So I have a scrum board here set up
and we can see this issue.
You can see the status is currently in slides.
If, let's say, I'm on the team,
and I'm working on the team and I'm actually working
on this issue and I drag this over, as soon
as I change this, it's going to change that status, right?
So we can see that status changes
as I drag it between these different columns.
So when I do that, then in the example I gave
for the manager wanting to be able to see everything,
he has his own board, his own kanban board.
He can see, if I scroll up here,
he can see this issue and what where it currently is.
So if I drag it over in the scrum board,
you can see the status changes.
And on the kanban board
it's automatically going to update.
So that's just one example of why you would want
to be able to see it on multiple boards.
And the reason why you're able to see things
on multiple boards, see the same issue on multiple boards,
is because these issues don't actually live
on the board itself.
These issues are controlled by a filter.
So I'm gonna hop over to the scrum board,
because in your question you were asking, specifically,
about removing from a scrum board.
So let's start there.
I'm gonna come over to the board settings
and under General, we will find the filter.
So this filter is what determines the issues
that are displayed on the board.
Okay, so if I hop into the kanban board settings,
we will see this actually uses the exact same filter.
So that means were gonna have the same issues
on that board, right?
So that's determining the issues that we see.
Now we can edit this.
I'm gonna come over to the scrum board,
and I'm gonna open this up in a new window.
And let's come in.
And let's say we want to,
maybe we want more than just tutorials.
Maybe we want to pull in things
from the production team as well.
So I don't want just this one project,
I want multiple projects.
So I'm gonna change this.
Let's call this filter for updated scrum board.
We can call this whatever we want.
Submit that.
And now, I'm gonna close out of this little popup here.
So now that we have this saved,
if you come over to our scrum board and refresh the page,
we can see that it's not automatically going to change,
but now I can find...
So this filter for updated scrum board, there we go.
Now if I hop back to my board, we can see this has changed.
Now we actually have a bunch of different types
of issues that are being pulled in.
And this leads to another potential reason why you
might want to be able to have issues update across boards.
Because you can see I have things
from a production team project and a tutorials project.
I have multiple projects going on, but I'm viewing them
on the same board because of that filter.
So what about removing them?
Well, removing them would be exactly the same, right?
So if we hop back into our board settings...
Oh, and before I do that, actually,
let's hop back to the board.
I just wanna display this real quick.
So you can see we have all
of these other issues added to the board.
But on the kanban board, if I hop back over here,
because that's still using the filter
that we were using previously,
the kanban board has not updated.
It's not affected by that at all
because we're using a different filter
for these different boards now.
Okay, so let's change this.
Let's actually remove those issues.
So if I come into the board settings,
come over to the query,
and we can change whatever we want.
This is going to determine
the issues that we see on the board.
So if I wanted to, I don't know, let's remove from project
and let's just say I only want issues that are in progress.
Okay? So I'm gonna update that.
There we go.
So now it's no longer based on a project,
it's only based on issues that are in progress.
If I could say that properly. (laughs)
So now if I hop back to the board.
I'm gonna go back to my scrum board here,
and you can see I don't have anything currently
on the board because I've taken everything away.
I've hidden everything.
But those issues are still over here
on the kanban board because I haven't changed that filter.
And hopefully it's not getting too confusing.
Basically it's just different filters that are
determining what displays here.
And what's cool about this,
and a way that we can use this to our advantage,
is you notice on the scrum board,
there's absolutely nothing here,
because this filter is only searching for things,
if I refresh this, it's only searching for things
that are in progress, right?
So if I take one of these issues on this other board,
maybe a different team is using this board,
and I pull this to in progress,
all of a sudden there's gonna be an issue in progress.
So now on the scrum board
that issue's gonna show up, right?
And as soon as that issue gets taken
over and moved along the process, it's going to disappear
because this particular board, the filter for this board,
is filtering it out.
It's no longer going to be displayed.
And I've used that little trick,
If you watch my team workflows course,
that's a little trick that I use to show or hide
issues on a board depending on the team.
So I would use that.
I actually set this up for
between the web development team and QA team.
So if an issue is being worked on by the web team,
they would pull it over to the QA team's column,
and on the web team's board say this is sent
to QA instead of in progress, for an example.
And then the QA team would have a board
and that issue would just show up
on their board because they don't need to worry
about all the other statuses for the web development team.
And then when they're done with it,
they can drag it to their next column,
which would essentially remove it from their board
because all of a sudden that issue is going to change,
that status is going to change, right?
So that would remove it from their board.
If I refresh this, you see now that's removed
from the board.
So again, just to recap.
You can remove issues from your board
by changing the filter, right?
So anything that shows up in this filter is going to be
what shows up on that board.
And then where it shows up on that board is going to
be determined by the status.
So the status correlates directly with the columns.
So if I come into the board settings, and this is covered
in the course as well, but, if I come into the columns here,
we can see statuses for the issue
that is being pulled in to that board.
And the board, for all intents and purposes,
is pretty much just a display.
It's not actually going to be deleting anything
if you hide something from that filter.
All right, so hopefully that answers your question, Mary.
I know it can get kind of confusing when you're going back
and forth between different boards
but hopefully it makes sense that the filter is
what determines the issues that are on the board.
And the board is just displaying.
So if you remove change the filter so it doesn't display
on the board anymore, then it will no longer be
on the board and you're not actually deleting it.
Those issues still exist.
You're not actually deleting those.

--- Creating a screen from scratch ---

Instructor: In this video,
we're going to answer a question from Mary.
Now, Mary's talking about issues in screens
and yes, they can get very complex very quickly.
But Mary wants to know how we can create
a new screen from scratch.
And so let's walk through that process of creating a screen
from scratch
and assigning it to a specific function.
Or actually in Jira, they're called operations
like edit screen like she mentions here.
So to do this, we'll need to hop into
the issue administration area of Jira
and then hop down to screens.
So let's create the screen first.
So I'm gonna come up here and click on Add Screen
and let's call this Mary's screen.
Call it whatever we want. Hit Add.
Once we've added this in,
then we can start to build this screen out,
add in whatever sort of things we want.
Now, when we do this,
there's something we need to keep in mind
because every single issue inside of Jira
needs to have at least the summary.
The summary is a required field for issues in Jira
because things like the board itself
or where they list different issues,
it's gonna pull from that summary.
So it has to have the summary filled out.
And if it's not on your screen,
there's no way that somebody can fill it out
because it's not visible.
So I really would recommend adding the summary field
to your issue
and then we can add in any sort of other fields
that we want.
So maybe a signee, maybe description.
Let's keep it pretty simple for now.
So I'm just gonna go with these three.
Once we have the screen created,
we need to actually assign that screen to a project
so we can do that through this screen schemes.
All right so, I'm not going to use
any of these preexisting ones.
Let's go ahead and create a brand new one.
Again, doing this from scratch.
So let's call this Mary's screen scheme.
And the default screen is going to be
the screen that we just created.
So add that in.
Very good.
So now what's going to happen is any time we create an issue
or edit an issue or view an issue,
it's going to use Mary's screen,
the screen that we just created
because we have the default set to this screen.
Now if we wanted to change that, if we wanted to say
for the create to use a different screen,
we could do that if we wanted to as opposed to edit or view.
We would just need to associate that issue operation
with a different screen.
But for the sake of this video to not overcomplicate things,
I'm gonna go ahead and leave this as the default.
Now, once we have that screen scheme and the screen created,
we need to actually associate that with an issue type.
So, where is this screen going to be seen?
Is it going to be seen on stories?
Is it gonna be seen on bugs?
Where is it going to be seen?
So we do that with the issue type screen scheme.
And again, I'm not going to use any of those.
I'm going to create a new one.
So Mary's and we can call this whatever we want.
I like to keep things relatively simple
and just with the name being able to see exactly what it is.
And then we need to associate that screen scheme
that we just created.
So just like the screen scheme
is associating the issue operation,
the create, edit or view,
the issue type screen scheme is going to associate
a particular issue type.
So, for a story, when you create a story,
what's the screen that's shown there?
Or when you edit a story,
what's the screen that's shown there?
That is the screen scheme.
But what if you create a bug?
What is the screen that's shown there?
That's going to be different than say
if you create a story, right?
So create a bug, create a story.
The issue operation is still the same.
It's still being created but the issue type is different.
Now you can associate a different issue type
if you wanted to.
So let's say if you wanted to associate just story,
we can have,
actually let's just change this to the default
so we can see a little bit of difference.
So we can see there's the default for all unmapped
and that's going to be Mary's.
And then we're going to have a different screen scheme
for stories that are created.
So now to actually see this in action,
we need to associate this issue type screen scheme
with a project.
So I'm gonna hop over here and let's hop into our projects.
Let's use this tutorials project as an example here.
And once this loads,
if we go into our settings for the project,
we can associate that screen over here.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna come over here,
use a different screen or a different scheme rather
If I could talk (laughs)
and I want to find the one that we just created.
So Mary's issue type screen scheme, associate that.
And now with this associated,
what that means is inside of this project,
anytime we create a story,
it's going to use this screen.
Any time that we create a bug, epic task or sub-task
because those are the issue types
that are available in this project,
it's going to use this screen scheme.
And this screen scheme means that when an issue is created,
Mary's screen is going to be showed.
When it's edited, Mary screen is going to be shown.
And because I have all of the same ones
across that operation.
So if we see this in action, if I open up a new window here
just so we can see this,
I'm gonna hit C in order to create.
And under tutorials, if I create a story,
we can see this is what the screen looks like, right?
And that is the default screen scheme when we create.
Now, if I come in here and change this
to a different issue type say a bug,
that's going to use the screen or the scheme
that we just created, right?
So this one here. Let's create.
Now if we wanted to change that, if for any reason and I'm
that's really the process of creating it from scratch.
But if we wanted to change this
after it's been created, we could do that.
So let's hop into our scheme here
just to go an extra little level here
and let's associate a different operation.
So let's say when this is edited,
because you were talking specifically about edit Mary.
So if this edit, let's say we want to
let's pull in a different one.
Let's say item, my custom screen, right?
So this is a a screen that I created previously
throughout the course.
If I add this in.
Now, when an issue is when we create an issue,
or when we view an issue, it's going to use Mary's screen.
When we edit the issue,
it's going to use my custom screen, right?
So, if we come over here,
we can see what this will look like if I hit Refresh.
because we have our issue type screen scheme,
still using the same screen for create, edit or view,
but for the bug epic task or sub-task issue types
in the tutorials project that we have this applied to,
create an issue is going to use Mary's screen.
Edit issue is going to use a different screen
and view issue is going to use Mary's screen again
because we have only this one changed.
So if we take a look at what that looks like,
I'm gonna cancel out of this just to refresh.
And we don't really have to do that.
We could just change the issue type if we wanted to.
But all right so, bug, story looks very different
because we have different schemes
and we saw those there.
Now in order to actually edit this,
I'm gonna actually have to create an issue.
So let's come in and create a bug.
Mary's bug. There we go.
We've created, you can see that's what I was referring to.
The summary is a required field.
Highly recommend that.
So, if we create that
and then we come in and we open it up
and this is the view screen.
But if I hit E to get to the edit screen,
then we can see this is what this screen looks like.
Now hopping back, just to see a difference here.
Let's come into our board just to pull up.
What I wanna do is pull up a different issue type
so we can see that the edit screen looks different.
So if I hit E on this guy here,
you can see this is what this screen normally looks like,
the edit issue for a story in this project
as opposed to the edit issue for this one.
So we can see the difference in those screens.
And the reason for that is exactly what we learned
where the screen, the issue type screen scheme is applied
to those issue types.
So story, when we edit that issue,
it's going to use this default screen.
But when we edit an issue that is either a bug,
epic, task or sub-task,
it's going to use this custom screen
whereas it's going to be different from the screen
when we create one.
So if I, just to show this and complete this here,
let's actually use this screen.
I'm gonna come over here
and just show what it looks like to create
so we can see the difference.
Create a new bug.
So we can see even that is a different screen
because we have reporter and description
as opposed to summary and description.
All right, so hopefully that helps Mary
walking through the process
of creating a new screen from scratch,
applying it to a new screen scheme
that we've created from scratch
and applying that to an issue type screen scheme
that we've created from scratch.
And then applying that to a project
and seeing how all of that kind of comes together.

--- Color cards based on status ---

-: Hello.
In this video we're gonna answer a question
from Vishal Vichare, and you can see the question here.
It says, "Hi Dan,
"can we display our card in Kanban
"with a different color, depending on status
"like 'To Do' being blue and 'Done' being green?"
And the answer to that is, yes, you can.
So let's see where we can do that.
I'm gonna hop over to my board.
You can see I have two issues currently on my board here.
And what I would like to do is to add a color
to those depending on the status that they are.
So to do that, let's come into our board settings
and then come down to card colors.
And we can do colors based on a query.
So this is really cool because in here we can add
in our JQL query to be whatever we want.
So let's say maybe our status equals, and in my case,
'cause I have some custom, custom statuses there.
So I'm gonna add that as red.
And let's maybe pick a, I don't know, a blue color.
And this one is ready to record.
Now if we head back to the board
we'll see those colors applied.
And when this issue goes into a different column
you'll see that that color disappears
because it is not in that status anymore.
As soon as an issue is dropped into that status,
it will have that color applied to it.
Great, so hopefully that answers your question
and thanks for watching.

--- Enabling dark mode in Jira ---

Instructor: In this quick video
we'll learn how to enable dark mode in Jira.
Now, the most important thing to keep in mind
is that dark mode is not available in every version of Jira,
but if it is in your version,
you'll find it under your profile
to theme and switch to dark mode.
Now, this changes it for your user profile,
not for everyone in the Jira installation.
This is a user setting,
but we can see if we hop into maybe our board,
we can see what the issue looks like.
We can look at the actual issue view here.
We can see this dark mode has been enabled
across all of Jira,
except you'll notice the top navigation bar.
The reason for that is because the color of this bar
is controlled by the Jira administrator.
So if you are the administrator
you can find where to control this.
If we come into our settings under system,
user interface, look and feel
and then scroll down just a little bit
and we'll find the navigation color
for the main horizontal navigation bar.
So you can see it's set to white.
Let's maybe set it to something darker.
Go ahead and update.
And now as soon as we refresh this page
we can see the top navigation bar has been changed.
But again, just keep in mind
that not everyone in your Jira installation
may have dark mode enabled.
So if I were to come back
and switch this back to light mode,
we can see that the top navigation bar
you've been refreshing, the top navigation bar stays dark.
So you might need to find a happy middle ground
in the color of the top navigation
that works for both the dark and light themes
across your Jira installation.
And again, remember, this is a new feature
as of this recording in June of 2023.
So we can see this is still in beta.
So you may not have it yet,
but it looks like they're rolling it out.
So if you're a fan of dark mode in your software like I am,
then expect it to be coming soon.

--- Bringing an epic back in the epic panel ---

Instructor: In this video, we'll learn how
to add an Epic back to the Epic panel
after we've marked it as Done.
So here's what I'm referring to as the Epic panel.
In our Agile board, in this case, a Kanban board,
in the Backlog, there is this Epics panel.
It's just a nice way of being able to filter
the Issues that are associated with the Epic.
We can drag Issues into it
in order to attach them to the Epic,
but once the Epic is Done, we can come in here,
let's pick on this one, that we can mark this as Done.
Now, that will clear it out of the Epic panel.
But before I do that, let's actually come in here
and we can see this particular Issue.
So this is the Epic.
If we open this up in a new tab,
let's go ahead and just resize this,
just so we can see this a little bit easier, side-by-side
and we can see exactly what's going on here.
All right, so here I can minimize the menu
just so we can see the Issue.
And the key thing here is the Status.
Okay, so currently this is the Epic.
That's this Epic right here, and this is its Status.
Now, when I mark this as Done, we've marked this as Done.
If I refresh this page now,
it will not show up in the Epic panel,
but the Status has not changed.
I can refresh this page and the Status here has not changed.
So if we wanted to bring that back,
if we wanted to have that show back up in the Epic panel,
how can we get that back?
We could try changing the Status.
You can see we have a Done status here.
We can try changing it to maybe In Progress,
but if I refresh over here, it's not gonna show back up.
The reason for that is because this is the Issue Status,
not the Epic Status.
Those are two separate fields.
I know it's confusing, but they're two separate fields.
So let's switch the Issue Status back to To Do,
and if we come into our search,
come into the Advanced search
and let's find this Issue here.
So let's just come in and do a search for,
we know this is Omaha Steak for this Epic.
Search. Oh, I don't want Created In.
All right, so we have our Epic, right?
So not the actual subtasks here,
but we have the Epic itself in this search.
Now, if we come in and do a Bulk Change, we can select
just the Epic and then edit the Issue.
And down here, this will show us all of the fields.
One of the field here is the Epic Status.
So let's change this to, maybe, something like In Progress.
That's all we need to do is to change that.
Go ahead and click on Next, Confirm.
It'll go through the process
of actually updating that Epic Status,
and now if we refresh this,
it will show backup in our Epic panel.
Okay, so to recap, in this video,
we learned about the Epic panel in the Agile board backlog,
how to mark an Epic as Done, how to bring it back,
as well as how the panel seems to focus
on the Epic Status and not the Issue Status.
Those are two separate fields.
So we're changing the Issue Status
and the Issue is not the Epic Status,
so it's not going to affect this Epic panel.
I know it's very confusing
because the Issue Type is an Epic,
but the Epic Status is different than the Issue Status.
Since I'm not affiliated with Atlassian,
I don't know if that's a bug or not,
but I will admit it is very confusing.
But for now, we learned how we can use the Bulk Edit
on a single Issue to change that Epic Status
and make it show up again in the Epic panel.

--- Working faster with Jira's breadcrumb ---

-: In this video we'll learn a couple quick tips
that we can do with Jira's breadcrumb,
and I've got a little news for you at the end
of the video too, so stick around if you want to hear that.
But first, let's get started by going to the breadcrumb.
So on my agile board, I'm gonna open up an issue
and the breadcrumb is up here at the top.
And the first little tip is that now we can add in a parent,
which would be an epic to this issue.
If you recall from earlier in this course
when I was explaining epics,
the epics have a hierarchical relationship with stories
or standard issue types inside of Jira.
And it used to be that we had to go through
this whole process to add epics to an issue.
And now all we have to do is in
the breadcrumb we can add the parent,
which means that once that's added here on the board,
if we use either quick filter,
so I've got a quick filter set up for this
to filter based on the epic
or it's kind of built in here.
We can do that very, very quickly.
Or if we wanted to come back up to this breadcrumb,
if you notice when I hover over it,
then it changes to the pencil.
Now we can change this to either a different epic
or we can just completely unlink it from that epic.
And now it's back to not being linked to any epic at all.
When I was working with one of my
consulting clients yesterday,
and I did that, they were like,
"Wait a minute, back up.
You can do that in Jira now?" (laughs)
So that's one thing that you can do
to work faster with the breadcrumb.
Now let me show you one other thing
that blew my client's mind that you can
do with the breadcrumb also.
And that is up here, if you notice,
we can see the issue type.
You've always been able to see the issue
and the issue key and that.
But now with the issue type right there,
we can actually click on this
to change the issue type as well.
So if we wanted this to say be a story,
now all of a sudden that issue type gets changed
and it's a story, and that's it isn't that super simple,
but it wasn't always that simple.
We used to have to edit the issue,
transition it to a different issue.
It was a lot more of a difficult process.
But the team at Atlassian has made it
so much easier now with some of these
little things that we can do in the breadcrumb,
and it's one of those things that you simply
won't know it's there, that you can do that,
until you try clicking on it.
And now you know it's there so you can save time too.
Okay, before I let you go, this is the first video
I've added to the course in a little bit.
So I wanted to give you a quick behind the scenes update.
I'm currently working on creating a big update
to the whole course to reflect some of the
latest updates inside of Jira.
Since you already own this course,
the update will be completely free of charge to you.
I've got some awesome tips and tricks from my own
consulting clients that I've been working with
since the last major update to the course.
And I've also gotten thousands of messages
and emails from other students of this course,
and a lot of tips and tricks have come out of that as well.
So if you have tips and tricks
or even if there's things that you've
always wished Jira could do, let me know.
Who knows? Maybe it'll be something like today's tip
where it didn't used to be something you could do,
but now you can inside of Jira.
I don't have a timeline for when the update will be done.
I just wanted to let you know that it is on the way,
and maybe I'll be able to get a few more tips
and tricks videos like this one here
before the full update is done.
Thanks for watching.
And I'll catch you next time.

--- Creating your first public form in Jira ---

In an earlier video, we learned about the forms feature in Jira, and back then it wasn't possible
to send the forms to the public.
Well, now the team in Atlassian has enabled the ability to make forms public.
So in this video, we'll walk through how to make a public form in Jira.
And the first thing to keep in mind is where you create your form determines what work types the form
can create in JIRA.
Let me show you what I mean by that.
If we come over to the sidebar here and open up a project and then go into the forms and create a form,
you can see the work types associated with this project, determine what work types this form will be
able to create.
Because if I come to a different project and create a form here, this project has different work types
associated with it.
So the form can create different work types.
So let's go through and actually create this form here.
And this is just filling out the information in the form.
So maybe this is for.
A tutorials request.
And then the summary.
So this field here is not actually changing the summary of the work item that gets created.
The summary that gets created is actually going to be the description that the end user will be filling
in.
So in here we could say something like what tutorial would you like to see in the future?
And then when they reply to this in the description, that's actually going to be what gets created
as the summary for that work item inside of JIRA.
And we could even do the same sort of thing for the description as well.
Add any details you'd like.
Sure are covered.
Something like that.
If I could spell.
There we go.
We don't need to make that that required because we want that to be optional if they want to add more
details.
And then actually I'm going to take the attachment and let's just drag this off.
We could add or remove any fields that we want.
We'll just keep this one super simple here.
And now we can actually make this public.
So we come up to the lock.
Who has access?
Anyone with the link to this form would be able to do that.
now.
When we make the form public, we still have to assign who is going to be the user inside of JIRA that
is reporting these work items, because JIRA requires every work item to have a reporter.
So let's maybe have it be Aldora is the reporter.
There we go.
Set access to public.
And now to access this form, we can come up here, copy the link, and I'll open up a new private window.
And there we go.
There is that form.
So let's come in and just fill this out real quick.
Do our email let's say update.
Course next.
There we go.
Submit that.
And then this is going to be submitted into Jira.
So let's come back in Jira and see what the other side of that looks like here.
So it's going to be in the tutorials project.
And it should show up here at the bottom of the backlog.
Or what we could do as well is we could come in to all work and simply filter by who the reporter is,
because we set Eldora to be the reporter.
And there we go.
So we've created our form, we made it public.
And then we actually fill out the form.
We can see the work item that got created here inside of JIRA.
Oh, and by the way, yes, as of this recording the Understanding Confluence course is due for an update.
So it is very much on my radar to update that after finishing off all the JIRA updates.
But if there's anything else you'd like to see in the future, I have added the link to this form that
we created in this video to Link Shortener, so you can just go here and fill it out yourself.
But as you can see, by changing this to a public form, we can start to capture anything from user
feedback to feature requests and more.
And this can really help save a ton of time, since it'll just drop all that information directly into
JIRA for your team to start working on.
