

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction to CKA Course ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the video course associated with the Certified Kubernetes Administrator
Certification.
My name is Zeel and I am going to be your instructor throughout this course.
Now when we discuss about Kubernetes just by the name itself, it does not really need introduction.
Why?
Because it is extremely popular in the industry.
In fact, it is one of the most popular container orchestration tool that is available.
And nowadays when you work for organizations, specifically the medium to large scale organizations,
Kubernetes is used quite extensively.
Now, to many of our users, I recommend reading the Kubernetes user case studies.
And in fact, there are multiple case studies from a wide range of enterprises in the industry.
One of the very popular one again, you have IBM and others.
But one of the very popular one nowadays in the industry is OpenAI.
Now, specifically to OpenAI.
This in fact, is an article from 2021 where they managed to scale Kubernetes to 7500 nodes.
This is huge.
So nodes are basically servers or virtual machines in which Kubernetes can create containers and manage
containers on.
And this by itself can show on how scalable Kubernetes can be.
Now, one of the things that I wanted to emphasize on why Kubernetes learning is one of the very important
things that you must do is related to the Kubernetes adoption statistics.
So this is of 2024.
And one of the things that you will see, more than 60% of enterprises have adopted Kubernetes.
And majority of organizations that do not fall into this category, they will be adopting Kubernetes
in a longer run.
So this by itself shows how popular Kubernetes is.
And if you are working into the domain like DevOps, SRE security.
Kubernetes is one of the technologies that you must know.
Now, before we proceed, one more thing that I wanted to share an interesting story.
So recently I got a call from one of the organizations.
So it is not a very big organization, I would say a small scale organization.
They have 15 to 20 developers and they are working on working on an application.
So they do not really have anyone from a DevOps team or SRE team developers.
They themselves manage everything.
So what they said is zeal.
I have heard that Kubernetes nowadays is extremely popular and we want to migrate our application to
Kubernetes.
And note that they are just developers and even such a small scale organization, they want to migrate
to Kubernetes.
Such is the popularity of this container orchestration tool.
Now, since Kubernetes has gained massive popularity in the industry, the official certifications associated
with Kubernetes have gained a lot of traction.
And when we discuss about the Kubernetes specific certification, one of the very popular one in the
industry is certified Kubernetes Administrator.
So at a high level overview, this is a perfect course if you intend to sit for the CA certification
exam, or even if you are planning to learn Kubernetes from scratch and you want to understand it in
great detail.
This is going to be a perfect course for you.
Now, one thing that we need to note is that primarily this is a certification based course, and we
are going to cover all of the topics that are part of the official CA exam.
Now, in fact, if you look into the exam blueprint associated with the CA certification, these are
the domains.
So you have a domain of storage domain of troubleshooting.
You have cluster architecture installation and configuration of very interesting domain that will allow
you to understand Kubernetes in great detail.
Then you have a few other domains as well.
Each domain has a associated topic that needs to be covered.
We are going to cover each and every topic that are part of the CA exam blueprint.
So in case let's assume that the blueprint gets updated after a year, then the course will also be
aligned with that.
We'll release new updates to make sure that the course remains aligned with the official curriculum.
Now, along with covering all of the pointers that are part of the official exam blueprint, we are
also going to have a separate exam preparation section as part of the course.
So in case after you have learned Kubernetes in depth and now you want to get certified.
So this exam preparation section is going to help you in this specific area.
Now, this course also has an extensive set of practice tests that are available.
This will also help you in the exam preparation.
Now along with that, note that we start our journey as part of this course on Kubernetes from absolute
scratch.
So no prior Kubernetes knowledge is required.
However, base Docker knowledge is a prerequisite for Kubernetes as well as this course.
So ideally when you go into the journey of Kubernetes you should know the basics of Docker.
And then once you understand the basics of Docker the step number two is Kubernetes or in fact any other
container orchestration tool, not only Kubernetes.
Let's say you want to study Docker Swarm or study EKS, etc. the step number one is to understand the
basics of Docker and containers.
And then you can switch to the container orchestration tool like Kubernetes.
Along with that, one very important point to note is that the CA exam is a lab based exam.
So it is not a MCQ based exam where they'll give you one question with four options, and you'll have
to select one of the right answer there.
So everything is a lab based exams.
So in the exam you will be presented with certain set of challenges.
And you will have to connect to a remote system.
And you will have to solve all of the challenges.
And these challenges are quite interesting.
And it will really test your understanding about Kubernetes.
And if you have completed the course and all of the practicals, you will be able to clear the exams
with great scores.
Alright, now before we conclude this course, a short introduction about me.
I primarily work as a DevSecOps engineer into defensive security, and teaching has been one of my passions
since a long time now.
Even before I started to work on online courses, I used to take seminars and workshops related to a
wide range of interesting topics like wireless security, cloud computing, and so on.
Now, in terms of online presence, we have around 16 to 17 courses and more than 400,000 students as
of now.
And in terms of certification, the most important one.
I am a certified Kubernetes administrator.
I have also completed certified Kubernetes Security Specialist.
So security specialist is one of the very amazing certifications.
And this is something that you can plan after you have completed the administrator one.
So this is where you go into the security aspect of Kubernetes in great detail.
All right.
In fact we have three courses in Kubernetes on the security specialist certification administrator as
well as application developer certification.
Along with that I am also HashiCorp certified in Terraform Professional Vault and Console Associate.
I am also certified in AWS set of certifications like Advanced Networking, Specialty Security, Specialty
Solutions, Architect Professional and in fact, we have courses associated with almost all of the certifications
that you see in 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3.
And along with that, I am also a Red hat certified architect with 13 plus more certifications.
And when I get time, I also work part time as a security consultant for organizations.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview on what this course is going to be all about.
I am very excited for this course and I hope you are too.

--- About the Course and Important Resources ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to have a short introduction about the aim based on which the course
was launched for, and also some of the important course resources that will help you in your journey.
Now, one of the points that we need to note is that the primary aim of this course is to learn.
And in fact, this is same for all of our courses, all of the topics that we discuss.
We discuss it from a practical point of view.
And we also try and connect on how that will help you in a real world environment.
And this is one of the reasons why you will see that our courses are a little lengthy, but I would
say it is worth it.
It is going to give you a solid introduction about the technology that you are learning, and this is
going to help you in real world environments.
Now, since the primary aim of this course is to learn, one of the approaches that we always follow
is that certification is a by product of learning.
So if you have learned about Kubernetes in great detail, practically you will be able to clear the
clear the certification with great scores.
So not only we are going to learn about Kubernetes practically in detail, but we are also going to
have a separate exam preparation section that will give you some of the important pointers that you
have to keep a note in preparation and while setting for the exams.
Along with that, one of the most requested resource apart from the course videos are the PPT slides.
So all of the slides that we use throughout the course, they are available as part of the PPT in the
section one itself.
So you can go ahead and download the PPT.
This will help you in revision as well.
Now specifically related to PPT 1.20 is that this course gets updated regularly.
So when we update the course we also release the newer version of PPT.
And this is the reason why when you download the PPT, the PPT also has the release date.
For example, let's say you find that the PPT that you have downloaded has a release date of 20th January
2025.
25.
This is just an example.
And then maybe after a few weeks, what you can do.
The lecture from which you have downloaded the PPT from this lecture will also have the release date
of the newer PPT.
So in case if you see that the lecture has a 12th Feb 2025 and the PPT that you have downloaded is 20th
January 2025, that means you have the older version of PPT and you can just download the PPT.
That is associated with this specific lecture.
Alright, so this specific pointer is one thing that needs to be noted.
Along with that we also have a discord community that is available.
So in case if you want to connect to other students who are completing our course and are also planning
to sit for a certification, then you will be able to connect with them easily using our discord community.
We also have a dedicated support team that is available in our discord community for any queries.
Alright.
Note that this part is optional in case if you would like, you can go ahead and join it.
Personally, we feel that this is quite beneficial for our students.
All right.
So this is the discord link again.
I have added this link after this video as well for you to reference.
Within here we have a specific category of CJ.
Now we have multiple video courses that are available.
So even in our discord community we have a specific category of CJ where we have the specific discussion.
So any queries that you have related to this course you can add it over here.
Now the next very important part is related to course resources.
So all of the commands that we run throughout this course, all of the manifest file that we have,
all of the documentation that we explore, everything is part of the GitHub page.
So in case if you want to reference it at a later stage, you can go ahead and open our GitHub page.
You can open the appropriate lecture and see what was the exact command that we had used as part of
the practical video.
And in fact, it will also help you to reference as part of your day to day practicals.
Let's in fact look into it.
For example, if you look into a certified Kubernetes Administrator GitHub repository over here, this
repository is aligned with the course.
So even in the course you will have a domain of core concepts, domain of workload and scheduling,
etc..
So let's say that you are currently in domain number two of workloads and scheduling.
Now in this domain also you will see that we have a video document mapper.
What exactly this means.
This means that all of the lectures that you see over here, these are the practical lectures where
we have used some code, where we have referenced to some documentation, etc..
So in case if you want to follow along, then you can just open the specific lecture name.
Now again this name that you see over here is the exact lecture name that you will see as part of the
course.
So let's say that you are currently doing a practical on labels and selectors.
You open this.
And within here we have added exactly all of the commands that are part of the practicals over here.
So it becomes very easy to follow.
So in case if you like, you can just copy paste from here and even at a later stage, if you don't
really want to watch the practical video and you just want to see what was the command that was used,
you can just open any of the lectures that we have and then the commands that were used, the manifest
file that were used, everything is available in GitHub.
All right.
So again a very important resource that you should be aware of.
And the last part that I wanted to emphasize upon is related to the local structure.
So as part of this course we use a folder called as CPP labs CA test as a base folder for creating and
managing the Kubernetes files.
So let's assume that you have this manifest file.
So all of the manifest file that we generally create and store will be in a specific folder of cpp.
Now along with that, the code editor that we use to go ahead and create and manage files is going to
be Visual Studio Code.
You can go ahead and use other editor as well.
That depends upon you, but Visual Studio Code is one of the very popular ones, and it makes life simple.
So just for better reference, currently if I go to C drive, we have a folder called as CP hyphen cat.
So any file related to Kubernetes that we create, we create it in this specific folder for organization.
And also if you open this file you see it is currently open using the Visual Studio Code.
Now as part of personal recommendation, I will highly encourage you to go ahead and use Visual Studio
Code.
It is one of the best editors that is available in the industry.
It is also available for a wide range of platforms.
So not only windows, but it is available for Linux, it is available for Mac and it is really going
to help you in the longer run.
Great.
So that's a high level overview about some of the important course resources.
Again, the link of all of the course resources is going to be after this specific video for you to
reference.
So that's about it.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.


=== Domain 1: Core Concepts ===


--- Document - Important Course Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Domain 2: Workloads & Scheduling ===


--- PPT for Entire Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Domain 3: Services and Networking ===


--- Overview of Container Orchestration - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video at an overview, we are going to discuss about the basics of container orchestration.
Now again this video is going to be very important.
Specifically before you learn any orchestration tools like Kubernetes, swarm, ECS, etc. this video
will act as a base that will make things easier for learning any orchestration tool.
So with this, let's get started.
Now before we discuss about container orchestration, it is important for us to take a step back to
see what users and organization used to do before these tools became much more mature, to be ready
to serve production level traffic.
Now, during the initial times, users relied on manual container management tool to handle various
tasks like launching containers, managing containers, and so on.
For example, let's say that you have a server and you have a user, and user wants to launch some containers
for his application or his website.
So what he will do first, he will manually login to the server, and then he will run certain commands
like docker run to create the appropriate containers required for the application to run.
Now this is good from a smaller scale environment.
Generally, during earlier times, organizations were much more mature where they would have some kind
of an automation script, maybe through Python, shell scripts, etc. that used to take care of common
tasks like deployment, scaling, networking, monitoring, etc..
Now, irrespective of both the approaches that we are discussing here, when the environment becomes
larger, specifically in production environment, both the approaches are not really sufficient to handle
things at scale.
So let's take few common examples that almost all of the organizations use to face.
And then we'll see on how container orchestration comes into picture.
So first challenge here is related to manual scaling.
So let's say that you have a server one where there are two containers that are running now suddenly
as part of your promotion or maybe some kind of advertisement, you are receiving very high traffic
on your website.
And the issue is that there is only one container running for app, one container running for nginx.
So in the situation where there is an unexpected high amount of traffic that is coming to your website,
you want some form of scaling to happen.
Now you also have a second server that is available.
However, this scaling will not really happen automatically.
So now what will happen is the user or the developer.
He will have to manually create the container on the second server as well.
And then whatever traffic that comes to your website, it needs to be load balanced between the containers
in the server one and server number two.
So all of this is a manual process and it takes a lot of time.
Now let's explore one more very common challenge that organizations used to face specifically related
to fault tolerance.
So let's say that you have some containers that are running in the server one.
Now if a container has failed, it can be due to a wide variety of reasons.
It can be a crash, it can be due to resource exhaustion, etc. the container generally would not automatically
restart without manual intervention in most of the cases.
Now at this stage we are just taking an example where app container has failed.
However, what happens if the entire server one has failed?
How would you automate things in such cases?
So when you have a manual based approach, if the server one fails what you might do in the server two
again you will launch the app container.
You will launch the nginx container, redirect the traffic to the server two and so on.
So all of this is a manual process and it makes things difficult for production level environments.
So these are just two common challenges that a wide variety of other challenges also that organizations
were facing.
And in order to overcome all of these, you have a new technology of container orchestration that came
into picture.
Now at a very high level overview of container orchestration automates the deployment, management,
scaling and networking of the containers.
So now what will happen is you have a container orchestration tool which is responsible for all of this
task.
Now user let's say a user wants to launch certain containers in a fleet of servers.
So he will not manually log in to each of the server, manually run the docker run command to create
a container, and so on.
So that is the older approach.
So now in the newer approach where container orchestration is used, user will communicate directly
to the container orchestration tool.
And container orchestration tool will in turn take care of the responsibility of launching the containers
in the appropriate server, making sure that this containers are always running.
If the containers are not running, let's say if a server one has crashed, then container orchestration
tool has that logic to migrate that container or relaunch the container in another server to ensure
that containers are always running.
So most of the common tasks related to deployment scaling, networking, everything.
Container orchestration tool takes care of it.
So let's look into how container Orchestration tool allows us to solve some of the important challenges
that organizations used to face.
So let's say that you have in total of three servers that are running as part of the fleet.
As of now, the traffic is less.
So you have 25% of traffic, and the container orchestration tool has launched one container in server
number one.
Note that many of the mature container orchestration tool can automatically scale the containers up
or down, based on the defined policies and the real time traffic.
This is the important part to understand.
So let's say as of now the traffic is less.
You only have one container, but at a later stage you have increased the amount of traffic.
So you have 75% of traffic that is coming.
So this single container might not be able to handle all of the requests.
So now what container orchestration will do.
It will go ahead and launch multiple set of containers in multiple servers.
and also the traffic will be routed equally among all of the servers.
And this is a great benefit for organizations.
Along with that, we were discussing about the challenge related to fault tolerance.
Now when container orchestration is introduced, it can automatically look into the health check of
the containers that are running.
And let's say that the server one has crashed due to some reason.
Then container orchestration will go ahead and it has the appropriate logic to create one more set of
containers in another server and redirect all of the traffic to server number two so that the website
is always running.
So all of this important logic, you don't really have to create the manual scripts related to it.
The container orchestration tool automatically takes care of it.
And this is of great benefit and it saves huge amount of time.
Great.
So now that we understand the basic of it at an overview, let's have a quick demo to understand on
how things really work.
Now for today's demo video I have three servers that are created.
One is where you have a container orchestration tool that is available, and you have two more servers
which are going to be the worker node where the actual containers can run.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to this server post, which will be discussing things in more
detail.
Great.
So currently I am connected to all of the three servers.
Now as we are discussing, when you have a container orchestration tool that comes into picture, user
will not really log in to each of the server.
Manually launch the container, route the traffic accordingly.
What user will do?
He will instruct the container orchestration tool that say I need five containers of nginx and container
orchestration tool has the appropriate logic to launch the five containers and ensure that they are
always running.
So let's take an example where I instruct that in total I need five containers of nginx that should
be running now.
Again, we are not interested in the command at this stage.
We are more interested to see on how things work at a high level.
Overview.
So when I press enter the container Orchestration tool, whatever is available has the appropriate logic
to take whatever instruction that you have provided, and it will act on it to ensure that in total,
five containers will be created and will always be running.
Now, as we are discussing that there are multiple worker servers that are running.
In fact, the containers can also run on the main manager node in case if you have configured it.
So let's look into it.
So in the main node over here, if you see when I run Docker PS there are two containers that are running
here.
Then in worker node one if I do a docker PS, you see I have one more container running here and in
worker node two if I run docker PS you have two more containers of nginx that is running over here.
Now as we were discussing That container orchestration tool also ensures that whatever instruction that
you have provided, it gets fulfilled all of the time.
For example, we have told the container orchestration that I need a total of five containers of nginx
that would be running now, let's say due to some reason the worker zero two server has crashed.
All right, so let me do one thing.
I'll manually stop the server.
All right.
I'll shut down this specific server and we'll see on how the container orchestration tool will ensure
that these two containers that were running in the worker zero two, which is no longer present, these
two containers are created in the remaining servers, whatever are running.
So now let's run the Docker PS command once again.
Within here you have two containers that are running now in the worker zero one.
If I run the docker PS.
You see, in total there are three containers that are running and this two containers are the new containers
that got created in the worker zero one.
Why?
Because worker zero two is no longer responding.
All right.
So this is one very simple example related to what container orchestration tool allows us to do.
Now one thing to note is that container orchestration tool is a lot more.
Now just for this video we had taken two examples related to manual scaling and fault tolerance.
However, there are a lot of important features that the container Orchestration tool provides from
the perspective of production environment, which is very helpful.
For example, load balancing and traffic routing monitoring of container health.
Along with that, one point to note is that there are many container orchestration tools that are available
in the industry, and based on the requirement, you can use one among them.
For example, Docker Swarm has been one of the very popular container orchestration tool that was initially
used.
Nowadays in the industry, if you speak, Kubernetes is extremely popular and in fact most of the organization
seems to be using Kubernetes because of the wide range of extensive features that it provides.
When we discuss about AWS, you also have EKS.
Again, it is a container orchestration that is available.
For example, let's also explore.
So when it comes to AWS you have the Elastic Container Service.
If you see it is a fully managed container orchestration service.
Now at this stage we have understood at a high level overview on what container orchestration allows
you to do.
So I hope this makes better sense now.
Then the second one is the Docker swarm.
Again, this is something that is used not so extensively nowadays, but it was very popular earlier
and the most popular in the industry nowadays is Kubernetes.
Again, a great container orchestration with extensive set of features.
And it really makes things much more easier.
And you can literally run things at an enterprise grade scale without facing scalability and other issues.
Great.
Now, before we conclude, one pointer that I wanted to share is that irrespective of the container
orchestration tool that you choose at a high level overview.
As we were discussing, the main task of container orchestration remains to be the same.
However, depending upon the tool that you choose, the features that are available will change drastically.
For example, when we compare Docker Swarm with Kubernetes, there is a huge difference in terms of
features.
Docker swarm does not have too many features.
However, when it comes to Kubernetes, it has extensive set of features compared to any other container
orchestration tool that is available in the industry.
And this is the reason why, again, Kubernetes is so popular and why so many organizations are using
it quite extensively.
All right.
But again, it all depends upon environment to environment basis.
For example, when we discuss about Docker Swarm it is very easy to set up.
However, when we discuss about Kubernetes, the overall process is a little more complex when compared
with the Docker Swarm, but again, Kubernetes.
Also provides extensive set of features as well.
And when we discuss about EKS.
Again, the overall process is much more easier to set up because you can do it through the GUI.
Itself.
So depending upon the organization that you are working with and the exact use case, the.
Container orchestration tool that you might choose will be different.
For example you need a.
Very simple setup for container orchestration because you do not really have a manpower or expertise.
So in such cases, we have seen that organizations use very simple setup based on Docker Swarm or maybe
even EKS.
But in a large scale organization, in enterprises where you have a manpower, you have the required
capabilities, and you need some tool to manage thousands and tens of thousands of containers at scale.
In such cases, Kubernetes is something that proves to be very useful.
All right.
So that's a very high level overview about the container orchestration.
And with this we will conclude today's video.


=== Domain 4: Security ===


--- Introduction to Kubernetes - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the introductory video to Kubernetes.
Now, before we proceed further, one thing that I wanted to share is that personally, I have used
a wide range of container orchestration tools that are available in the industry.
It can be Docker Swarm, it can be Amazon, EKS and various others that are available.
But by far one of the best ones that is available in the industry is Kubernetes.
So we are going to discuss about Kubernetes in great detail step by step.
So with this base set let's go ahead and understand the basics of Kubernetes.
Now at a high level overview.
One point to note is that Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration engine developed by Google.
So although it was originally designed by Google, but now it is maintained by CNCF, which is the cloud
native computing Foundation.
Now with this base set, let's go ahead and look into the architecture of Kubernetes at an overview.
There are two important components of the Kubernetes cluster.
First, very important one is the control plane.
And the second one is the worker nodes.
Now control plane is the actual Kubernetes cluster.
So all of the main components that are part of Kubernetes, they are referred to as the control plane.
And the worker nodes that you see on the right.
These are the actual servers where the container applications run.
All right.
So let's also look into the workflow at a high level overview.
So discussing about the workflow the user communicates to the control plane and provides the necessary
instruction to run the containerized applications.
For example you have a user user will have some requirements.
For example user might want to run two containers of nginx.
Or user might want to run an application container, but not on the smaller server on the largest server
that is available here.
So all of these requirements, the user will submit it to the control plane, which is the main Kubernetes
master node.
Control plane will interpret the requirement, and it will go ahead and launch the appropriate container
in the nodes that are available as part of the overall cluster.
All right.
So this is a very basic high level workflow.
Now before we proceed further, let me also quickly show you on how exactly it looks like so that things
are much more clear.
So within one of the cloud providers I have a Kubernetes cluster that is running.
So if you see this is the main Kubernetes cluster.
So when we discuss about Kubernetes it is primarily the control plane.
And also the associated worker nodes where the control plane can assign the containers to.
So if I quickly open this let's look into the worker nodes as well.
You see there are certain worker nodes that are running.
And these are the nodes where the containers will be assigned to.
So let's also go ahead and look into it from the GUI perspective.
So this is a GUI associated with Kubernetes which gives you a basic overview on what exactly is running
in Kubernetes.
Because it can happen that there are tens of thousands of containers that are running, and various
other things are set as part of Kubernetes cluster.
So if you have a GUI, it becomes much more easier for you to go through.
So if you currently see as part of this Kubernetes that is available, there are in total of three pods.
So pods are something similar to the concept of containers.
So you can consider that there are three containers that are running as part of the Kubernetes environment.
Now if you'll open this it will give you details associated with it.
For example, it gives you the IP address associated with it and various other details related to it.
Along with that, one more thing that I wanted to show you.
In fact, let's go a bit down when you explore nodes.
So as we are seeing that there are a total of two nodes that are available as of now.
So this is similar to the diagram where you have one node and you have two node, you have one node
and two node.
And it also shows you the overall utilization.
For example, if I open up one of the node, it gives you great detail related to the allocation at
a CPU level, at a memory level, and all of the important things.
It is also showing you what are the containers or what are the pods that are running as part of this
node.
For example, as we are discussing that user when he submits the requirement to Kubernetes, stating
that I want to run two containers of nginx.
Now Kubernetes has that intelligence to determine which will be the appropriate server in which the
containers can run.
And you can also see.
So when you open up the appropriate node, you can also see what are the pods or what are the containers
that are actually running on this specific server.
So let's do one thing.
We are going to take a simple example just for this demo where at an overview, we want to run one container
of Apache as part of our Kubernetes cluster.
So currently my local workstation is associated with Kubernetes cluster.
So if I just do cube CTL get nodes.
Now again note that this is a demo video.
I just wanted to show you the basic.
Now if you see as we are discussing, even in the guy, we saw that in total there are two nodes that
are available.
And when you instruct Kubernetes that I want to run a specific container, Kubernetes can select one
of the node based on the scheduling constraints.
So let's take an example here.
So I'll go ahead and I'll run a command which basically will launch a container based on the Apache
image.
Let's go ahead and press enter.
And it says created.
Now note that currently I am not logged in to the Kubernetes server.
For example, currently when I submit a requirement to the control plane, you do not need to log in
to the control plane.
Instead, you need to have the address of the control plane along with the authentication credentials,
and then you submit the request to the control plane address, whatever URL is available along with
the authentication to submit the overall request.
So at this stage, this is the requirement that we have given to Kubernetes stating that I want to create
a container based on the Apache image.
Now if you run the kubectl get pods command.
Now again, at this stage you don't really need to know the commands, just understand it at a high
level overview.
So you see that we have one pod or one container that is running over here.
It was just started 67 seconds back and it is in the ready status.
Now you might also wonder in which worker node is this container running.
So let's also try and find it out.
So if I go to node let's open up one of the nodes.
Let's see if the Apache is running there.
And in fact yes it is.
So this specific container is running on the second node that we see over here.
Similar to this you can also have wide range of requirements.
For example, you can say that I want to run a container but not in some random worker node, only in
a worker node that has minimum of four GB Ram available and certain amount of CPU capacity that is available.
So all of those scheduling related constraints also you can set as part of your requirement.
All right.
So at a high level overview, I hope with this you understood what Kubernetes allows us to do.
Now, the thing that we discussed as part of today's demo is a very, very basic example.
Kubernetes has a lot of interesting features that are very useful from the production environment perspective.
All right.
So at a high level overview, note that Kubernetes provides a lot of features and is designed on the
same principle that allows Google to run billions of containers a week.
In fact, I have taken this line directly from the official Kubernetes documentation.
So here you see it states production grade container orchestration.
And within here under the planet scale, it says that design on the same principle that allows Google
to run billions of containers a week.
And this is truly amazing.
And one thing that I can say is, yes, Kubernetes can scale very, very well.
However, when you discuss about such a large scale, you should also have that level of expertise into
Kubernetes to create and manage the overall environment.
Now, when we discuss about some of the popular Kubernetes features, one of the very important one
is related to the pod auto scaling.
So let's say that you have certain containers that are running that can serve the base traffic, but
you have a holiday season coming and suddenly you got a spike in traffic.
So Kubernetes can actually scale in or scale out your containers based on the overall traffic, which
is very interesting feature, and a lot of organization makes use of that.
Kubernetes also supports service discovery as well as load balancing.
It supports self-healing of containers.
It supports secret management, automated rollouts and rollbacks, and various others.
Now again, at this stage, we wanted to keep it very simple, where we discuss at a high level overview
on what Kubernetes allows us to do, and in the upcoming videos, we are going to explore some of the
very important features of Kubernetes in great detail, so that you can master this specific tool from
the production environment perspective.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.


=== Domain 5 - Storage ===


--- Installation Options for Kubernetes - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to explore various installation options that are available to us
for deploying our Kubernetes cluster.
Now this entire topic can be better understood with a simple analogy where you want to eat your favorite
food dish.
All right, so this is the requirement where you want to eat your favorite food dish.
And a food dish looks something similar to the one that you see in the picture.
So this is like a classical Indian thali.
Now when you have this specific requirement what are the options that are available for you?
The first option is you can go to the store, you can get the ingredients associated with each item
and you can prepare it from scratch.
Second option is nowadays you also get lot of ready made mix so you don't really have to prepare it
from scratch.
You can just put it in a microwave oven, make it hot and it will be ready for you.
Generally, this is not too common in India, but again this can be an option.
Third is you can directly order it from the restaurant.
Now, based on these options, we can easily identify which one will take most amount of time and require
most amount of skills.
So the first option here will take most amount of time and it will require decent amount of skills as
well.
And the easiest option is what easiest option is the third one where you directly order it from the
restaurant.
In a similar way, when we compare it with Kubernetes, let's say you want to launch a Kubernetes cluster.
Now what are the options that are available to you?
First option is you can go to the Kubernetes website, download all the individual components as part
of the control plane, integrate each component one by one and get your cluster up and running.
This is similar to the first option of the food analogy, where you get the ingredients and prepare
things from scratch.
So not only this is complex, it is very time consuming and it requires good amount of skills.
Second option is you can use certain tools like mini cube and cube ADM, that allows you to quickly
set up the Kubernetes cluster for you.
And the third option is to use the managed Kubernetes service, where certain providers will host the
Kubernetes for you.
And this makes the life simple.
So let's go ahead and explore each option one by one.
The option number one is to make use of a managed Kubernetes service that is being offered by various
providers like AWS, GCP, etc. where what happens is they'll give you a ready made managed Kubernetes
cluster.
They'll manage everything for you.
You can go ahead and directly use it.
All right.
So this again when we compare it with an analogy, it is like ordering ready made food from the store.
Now this is one of the very common options that you will see in most of the organizations.
Kubernetes is not a very simple topic, specifically when you want to integrate each and every component.
It takes a lot of time and it takes a lot of skills.
So most of the organization do not really want that headache to build an entire Kubernetes cluster from
scratch.
And this is the reason why most of them that you will see will use a managed Kubernetes service from
the providers.
Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you this.
For example, when we discuss about AWS, they have a offering called as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service.
So start, run and scale Kubernetes without thinking about cluster management.
Cluster management is one of the very complicated task, and ideally you should avoid it as much as
possible unless and until it is required.
So this again is a managed Kubernetes service where the actual Kubernetes cluster is created and managed
by AWS, and you just take care of the other part of deploying the necessary pods and other areas.
The second offering is by DigitalOcean.
Again, this is a managed Kubernetes service that has been provided to you.
Again, a lot of small scale organizations, they make use of DigitalOcean quite extensively.
Personally, I make use of DigitalOcean and the managed Kubernetes service is really great and affordable.
One more option that is available in the industry, specifically from Azure, it is referred to as the
Azure Kubernetes Service.
Again, this is a managed Kubernetes service for you, where the cloud provider will take care of creation
and management of the Kubernetes cluster.
You can just focus on using it to build and deploy your applications.
All right.
So this is the option number one and one of the most popular option in the industry.
The option number two is to make use of some tools like minikube or Kubeadm to quickly set up the Kubernetes
cluster for you for your local testing.
So let's say that you do not really have an account in any cloud provider.
You have a virtual machine you want to deploy Kubernetes cluster on that virtual machine.
So you can use tools like minikube that will allow you to quickly build a Kubernetes cluster in your
virtual machine or in your server, and it is generally used for local testing.
This, again, is quite popular, specifically if you want to test things out.
And the option number three, which is most complicated.
But it will also give you complete control on how the cluster is built, where you set up things from
scratch.
So within here, as we are discussing that, use download individual component from Kubernetes website.
For example you download kube API server, binary kube scheduler, binary controller manager, etcd,
etc. then you have to integrate all of them and once you integrate it properly, then your control plane
is ready.
And in a similar way, when we discuss about worker node you have to set up Kubelet.
You have to set up appropriate configuration to build the entire cluster.
Now generally for enterprises where you need great control over the control plane, this is the option
that can be used.
Generally, what happens is that when you use the managed Kubernetes cluster from any provider, it
can be AWS, DigitalOcean, AKS, etc. they will not really give you control over each component as
part of the control plane.
So let's say that you want to change certain option as part of the kube API server component.
You will not be able to do that from the managed Kubernetes cluster.
So when we discuss about large scale enterprises where you need very granular control at each component
level, in such case you might consider to set up the Kubernetes from scratch.
However, in all other cases, you should ideally prefer the managed Kubernetes service.
It will really make your life simple.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the installation options that you can
use for Kubernetes.
Now discussing about what option that we are going to choose for this course, the first primary one
that we are going to make use is related to a managed Kubernetes service.
So when you are new to Kubernetes, it is important that you focus on the important features to get
used to Kubernetes.
You don't really want to build an entire Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
All right.
So a managed Kubernetes cluster is something that we are going to make use of as a primary and as a
backup option just to make sure that everyone gets accommodated.
We are also going to explore the Kubernetes cluster initialization using minikube.
So we'll have two options.
The primary one is the main one that we are going to use as part of this course.
But again, in case if you are not comfortable, you can also use minikube to set up the Kubernetes
cluster.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.


=== Domain 6 - Cluster Architecture, Installation & Configuration ===


--- Choosing Cloud Provider for Kubernetes Infrastructure ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to analyze on how you can choose a right cloud provider for launching
your Kubernetes cluster and related infrastructure environment for the practicals that we'll be doing
throughout this course.
Now, at this stage, we had already discussed that there are three primary ways in which you can configure
your Kubernetes cluster.
First, easy and recommended way is you use a managed Kubernetes service that are being offered by wide
range of providers.
The second way is you can use tools like minikube or kube ADM to also quickly set up a Kubernetes cluster
for you.
And third, you can decide to set up a Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
Now, across all of these three options, you will either need a cloud provider that supports a managed
Kubernetes service, or you need some form of a provider that can give you a virtual machine where you
can install Kubernetes using minikube or kube adm.
Now you can also use tools like VMware in your local laptop or desktop to create virtual machines,
where you can go ahead and install Kubernetes using minikube or kube ADM.
However, the easier way is you use some form of a cloud provider to do it for you.
Now, as part of this course, whatever cloud provider that we will be choosing, it will be based on
three important constraints.
First, one is that it should be easy to use.
Second constraint is that it should be cost effective.
And the third important constraint is that the cloud provider should provide us with some form of free
credits to get started, so that we can keep costs as minimal as possible.
Now, one point to note is that as part of this course, the primary approach that we will be using
would be to use a managed Kubernetes service.
And we will also have a video on how to install Kubernetes using minikube.
So for individuals who want a different approach, they can use the approach number two here.
Now when we discuss about managed Kubernetes service, there are multiple options that are available
in the industry, and multiple set of cloud providers have their own set of managed Kubernetes offering.
For example, X is quite popular specifically for AWS customers.
Then second very popular one is the DigitalOcean.
This also provides a managed Kubernetes service.
You also have managed Kubernetes service in Azure, managed Kubernetes service in GCP, and so on.
Now when we discuss about cloud providers from pricing perspective, this is very important part to
note.
For example, when we discuss about ECS pricing, let's look into it.
So for standard Kubernetes version support it is 0.1 per cluster per hour.
And for extended Kubernetes version 0.60 per cluster per hour.
So let's consider this 0.1 per cluster per hour.
So let's say that you are running Kubernetes control plane for one month.
How much you will be charged.
Let's quickly verify so you have 0.1 into 24 hours.
So every day you will be charged 2.4 into 30 which is $72.
Now for larger organization this is not much of a concern.
But for individual learners this is quite expensive.
Now the option number two is related to DigitalOcean.
So let's also compare the pricing of this offering.
So if you look into the pricing page over here, one of the interesting and one of the very important
part to note is that the DigitalOcean control plane is completely free.
Now, as we were discussing in the earlier video as well, related to the architecture of Kubernetes,
you have two important component.
One is the control plane.
So this is the actual Kubernetes and its associated components.
And then you have the worker node where your containers will run.
So this is the main part.
The control plane is the main part.
And this pricing that we saw in X, which is 0.1 per cluster per hour.
So this refers to this control plane only.
Now the benefit of DigitalOcean is that this specific control plane is completely free.
And this is a very big advantage.
And what is the thing that you will be charged for.
You will be charged for the nodes.
So this specific worker node where your containers will run.
This is the pricing of the worker node which is $12 per month per node.
In case if you do not run it all the time, you will not be charged this much as well.
This is one big benefit.
Now, as we are discussing about the constraints of choosing a right cloud provider, it should be easy
to use, cost effective and free credits to get started.
And this is where again DigitalOcean comes into picture.
So at this stage you will see that whenever you sign up for DigitalOcean as a new user, they do provide
certain level of free credits.
As of now, it is $200.
The pricing can change now.
Initially it was $50, then it went to 100.
Now at this stage it is $200.
And this is a great starting point.
Even if they reduce to say $50.
That by itself is quite good enough to complete the entire course for free.
So this is the reason why.
Again, option two proves to be very useful.
Now what I'll be doing after this video, I'll be attaching a link, which is a referral link which
allows you to get a $200 of free credits.
Again, this part can change.
It can be $100, maybe at a later stage.
Currently it is $200 that has been offered, and this part will virtually allow you to complete the
entire course for free.
So this is the reason why the main cloud provider offering that we will be using as part of this course
is DigitalOcean.
Again, this is not a compulsion and most important, this is not an advertisement for DigitalOcean.
It gives benefits and this is the reason why we are using this for course.
Maybe tomorrow if DigitalOcean removes the benefits and there are some other providers which gives good
benefit, we will use that.
All right.
Now one thing that I also wanted to show you is that as we are discussing in DigitalOcean, you can
use a managed Kubernetes cluster offering similar to what you see over here.
Along with that, let's say you do not want to use this.
You want to use the second approach of installing Kubernetes using minikube.
So for this also you will need a virtual machine.
So you can also go ahead and launch certain servers in DigitalOcean.
And in that you can go ahead and configure kube, ADM or minikube etc. based on your preference.
All right.
You can also quickly create server here as well.
Now apart from that I also wanted to give you a complete information related to what other options that
you might choose.
For example, there are multiple offerings that are available.
For example linode is also a good provider.
So if I open up linode, they also provide $100 of free credits.
And linode also has a managed Kubernetes service that you can make use of.
So if you'll see deploy Kubernetes cluster with a fully managed container orchestration engine.
So this is also one option that is available.
Apart from that there is one more option that you can choose is the Docker Desktop.
So Docker Desktop also provides an option where you can go ahead and launch Kubernetes in your local
laptop.
In fact, let me also show you.
So currently I have Docker desktop running.
And when you go to settings you have option for Kubernetes and you can enable the Kubernetes in your
local laptop.
The issue sometimes that we see over here is that in case if you do not really have a good hardware,
it slows down a lot of things.
And along with that, there are some compatibility issues that some might face.
For example, if Hyper-V is enabled or if Hyper-V is not enabled, it will work, it will not work,
and so on.
So this is the reason why we wanted to have a very standard approach where we know that Kubernetes is
going to work and it is going to work well, and this is the reason why we are preferring a managed
Kubernetes service to begin with.
Once you learn Kubernetes at an intermediate or an advanced level, then there are many other options
that you can use.
But initially use a managed service.
Preferably keep it simple, learn various features of Kubernetes and then at a later stage you can experiment
based on your needs.
All right.
So that's a very high level overview about various providers that you can consider for Kubernetes related
practicals.
Again I'll be adding the DigitalOcean related link after this video in case if you would like, you
can go ahead and choose that.
And in the upcoming videos, we'll go ahead and look into how we can configure the Kubernetes cluster
based on the offering at a DigitalOcean level as well as as part of minikube.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.


=== Domain 7 - Logging / Monitoring ===


--- Document - MSSP ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Domain 8 - Troubleshooting ===


--- Deploying Managed Kubernetes Cluster ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and configure our first Kubernetes cluster.
And the approach that we will be using as part of today's video would be the point number one here,
which is to go ahead and deploy the managed Kubernetes cluster.
And the provider that we will be using is DigitalOcean.
So the overall process of launching a Kubernetes cluster is very simple.
Let's go ahead and quickly look into it.
Now within your DigitalOcean account you have an option associated with Kubernetes.
So you can just open this.
And within here you can go ahead and create your Kubernetes cluster.
So I'll click here.
Now in the version again there are multiple versions that are available now in Kubernetes.
Note that the newer versions are released quite frequently.
So whatever newer version is available over here, you can go ahead and use that.
The next is the data center region.
Again there are multiple regions that are available.
You can choose any one of your choice.
Personally, since I am based out of India, I'll be using the Bangalore region over here.
Along with that, we'll leave everything as default here.
The next part is the cluster capacity.
So in the node pool name let's just call it as k p labs hyphen K8S.
And within here this node plan that you see over here this is basically related to the worker node.
For example if you remember you have a control plane and you have a worker node where the actual containers
run.
So this worker node related configuration is what it is, whether your worker node needs shared CPU
or a dedicated CPU if you choose one among them.
What is the node plan?
There are multiple nodes that are available now.
It can happen that the containers that you run in your worker node, they require a lot of CPU, a lot
of memory, and so on.
Specifically for lot of custom applications, this is the requirement.
So based on that you can use the appropriate node plan.
Since we are learning and we are not really going to deploy very big applications, we will use the
minimal one.
Whichever is available the minimal one.
Go ahead and use that over here.
And the number of nodes here is three.
So basically in total of three nodes will be created, but we do not really need it.
I'll go ahead and I'll select one.
One is quite good enough for learning.
Make sure to use the minimal approach only if needed at a later stage will increase, but as of now
this is more than sufficient.
And even in the machine type you have premium Intel Premium AMD.
We do not want that.
We'll keep it as simple as possible for all of them.
All right, so once this is done there are various other options over here.
Like you need high availability and all.
We do not really need that.
We just want to keep it simple.
And in the name over here I'll just call it as KP labs hyphen k s.
And that's about it.
Once this is done, it will give you an overview and you can go ahead and create your cluster.
All right.
So note that the creation time for cluster is a little longer.
It can take 15 to 20 minutes for the cluster to be created.
So let's do one thing I'll pause this video.
Once the cluster is created we'll resume and we'll look into what are the options that have been provided
after the cluster creation.
All right.
So it has been few minutes and our Kubernetes cluster is finally up.
At this stage it will give you overview related to it.
And along with that again the GUI might change a little, but I am just giving you an overview on various
different options here.
So in the resources it will basically give you details associated with the worker nodes that are running.
So at this stage, since we had only selected one worker node, this is the one that has been shown
here.
Along with that it also gives you insights related to CPU usage, the overall load, the memory usage,
disk usage, and so on.
So this is useful.
And at an overview that's about it.
Now if you go back to Kubernetes this is the cluster that is currently running.
Now once you have launched a cluster in Kubernetes, in any provider the next important step is to connect
to this cluster.
So we will be looking into that area in the upcoming set of videos.
At this stage.
Go ahead and launch the cluster and post which will be discussing things in detail.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.


=== Exercises ===


--- Connectivity Options for Kubernetes ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to explore various connectivity options that are available.
Specifically when you want to make a request to your Kubernetes cluster.
Now, after your Kubernetes cluster is up and running, the next very important part is that we need
to be able to find a way to connect to the control plane.
So for example, let's say that you want to run some containers as part of Kubernetes.
Now how will you send the request about the requirement that you have.
So at this stage you should know on how you can connect to the control plane.
Now to connect to Kubernetes there are multiple approaches that are available.
First one is you can directly send a request through the API.
Second, and the most used approach is the CLI.
And the third approach that is available is through GUI.
The primary approach that we will be using as part of the course, and also as part of the exam, and
mostly also part of the real world environments would be the CLI.
However, it is important for us to understand all of these three approaches at a very high level.
Overview.
The first one is you can directly send a request to the API.
For example, if you see you are using a curl to make a request to the API associated with the control
plane, and in the response you will get the data as requested.
The second most popular and the recommended approach is through the CLI.
So there is a utility called as cube CTL.
And this cube CTL will allow you to connect to Kubernetes.
And once you have cube CTL you can directly use this for wide variety of operations.
For example if you want to create new set of containers, if you want to fetch some data you will use
this specific utility.
So let's explore both of them at a high level.
Overview.
Now at this stage I have a Kubernetes cluster that is up and running.
Note that this is a demo video.
The aim here is to learn and at a later stage we will have a separate practicals.
So as part of this Kubernetes cluster, let's say I want to see how many pods or how many containers
are running.
So using this cube CTL tool I can make certain requests to Kubernetes and Kubernetes will give the appropriate
response back.
Now is it compulsory to always use cube CTL to fetch the data?
Answer is no.
There are multiple ways as we were discussing.
The other way is you can directly make a request thru curl to the API.
For example, at this stage the output here is that we have a Ingenix based pod or nginx based container
that is running now.
In a similar way, you can also send a curl request through the API.
Now if I press enter here, you see I am getting a lot of data.
Now if you'll see over here, let's go a bit up again.
It is showing you the entire data.
So if you see the name here is nginx which matches over here.
Now again there are multiple ways in which you can filter the data as well.
But at this stage we are just seeing that there are different approaches that you can use.
Now if you send a curl request it becomes a little difficult.
You need to know the entire endpoint.
And again this is only if you want to automate something in custom use cases in all other requirements.
Kubectl is the important utility that you will be using to create and manage objects in Kubernetes cluster.
The option number three that is available is GUI.
So you have a dashboard that is available for Kubernetes.
This is good for wide variety of use cases.
Specifically when you have hundreds of pods, hundreds of different objects that are running, and you
want to quickly see the current state of your Kubernetes infrastructure, what exactly is running and
maybe for troubleshooting?
Also, it is useful, but as part of this course we will be using it as minimal as possible.
Why?
Because you have to get very familiar with kubectl.
This is extremely important not only from the exam perspective, but also from real world environment.
All right.
From exam also you have to deploy all of the resources using kubectl.
So it is important that we get familiar with that tool.
Once you are familiar with kubectl at a later stage you can also use dashboard to see what are the objects
that are available and for other areas.
But at this stage, the option number two of kubectl is the most important for us to be familiar with.
So that is a high level overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.


=== Exam Preparation Section ===


--- Overview of kubectl - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to have an overview about a tool called as cube CTL.
Now again this video is very important because for most of the videos as part of this course and even
for exams.
Cube CTL is one of the important tools that you will be using.
So let's go ahead and understand what it is all about.
Now at a high level overview, the cube CTL, which is the Kubernetes command line tool.
It allows you to run commands against the Kubernetes cluster, for example, whatever operation that
you want to perform as part of Kubernetes, run cluster, describe cluster, describe nodes, etc. you
will use the cube CTL utility to go ahead and send the request, and you will get the appropriate response
back from Kubernetes.
All right.
So this is the official command line tool that is available for Kubernetes.
The next very important part when you configure the cube CTL tool is the authentication.
So it is not that once you configure cube CTL as part of your laptop, you can connect to any Kubernetes
cluster clustered over the internet, this will not really work.
So note that when you configure kubectl, there are two important details that are needed as part of
this to connect to your Kubernetes cluster.
The first very important part is the DNS or the IP address of your Kubernetes control plane.
And once you know this, the second very important part is the authentication credentials.
So it's like when you connect to a website say facebook.com, what you need to log in to your account.
You need your username and password.
So once you know the URL of Facebook which is facebook.com, then you also need a username and password.
And only after both of them are provided will you be able to log in to your account.
And same process happens with kubectl as well.
Now the next part that we should know on how you can provide these set of credentials to kubectl.
And this is where kube config file comes into picture.
Kube config file has two important information that we saw.
One is the DNS or the IP address of the control plane, and second one is the actual authentication
credentials that kubectl will make use to connect to your Kubernetes cluster.
All right.
So whenever you configure kubectl behind the scenes this needs to be connected to the appropriate kube
config file.
For example I have a Kubernetes cluster that is currently running.
Now as part of my local workstation I already have kubectl that is configure node.
This is a demo video.
We'll have a separate practical video where we will discuss things step by step.
But at this stage when I use kubectl to make certain requests, for example kubectl get nodes, it is
giving you details of what is the node that is configured as part of the cluster.
Now how does this kubectl know that it needs to connect to this specific cluster running in the DigitalOcean
environment?
And this is where as we know the kube config comes into picture.
Now in the command that we had ran, we did not really specify the path of the kube config file.
so there must be some default path that is configured from which this kubectl tool must be fetching
these information from.
So this is what the next slide is all about which states that kubectl tool by default will look for
the kube config file in a file named config inside the dot cube folder in your home directory.
So for example, in Linux if you look into a home directory.
So this is the home directory dot cube folder.
There is a file called as config.
So this config file must contain the appropriate information like the DNS or IP address of the control
plane, the authentication credentials, etc. that the kubectl utility will use to connect to the cluster.
All right.
So this is the home directory.
Now again depending upon the user the home directory will change.
So let's also look into it from demo perspective.
Now when it comes to Linux for example when I run kubectl get nodes it is giving us the details.
Now for Linux you will see this file as part of the cube folder in the home directory.
So here you see we have the config file that is available.
And when you explore this config file let's also do that.
This config file contains details related to the authentication and also details where the Kubernetes
cluster is running.
So in this case you see this is the IP address of the control plane.
In a similar way when it comes to windows again we were able to run this command.
So where does the home directory lie.
It generally lies in C drive.
Then you have users.
In my case this is the user.
And within here as well.
You see I have a folder called as dot cube.
If I open this this is the config file.
Now if I open this config file let's open this with Visual Studio.
You see it basically contains the URL.
Since this is a managed cluster based on DigitalOcean, this is the URL of the control plane And it
also contains this token.
So this is like a password that you use while authenticating to the Kubernetes cluster.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood that whenever you configure kubectl the kube config file must also
be present.
Now one more question that generally comes is what happens if your kube config is not in your home directory.
Will kubectl work in that case let's find out.
So for example in the dot kube folder let's rename this file.
All right I'll just rename it to config dot back.
Now kubectl by default is configured to find a file called as config in the dot kube folder in the home
directory.
Now in this case we have renamed this specific file.
So when you run the kubectl command it will not really work.
So let's try it out.
So in my windows if I run the kubectl command you see this time we are getting an error.
So it is not able to locate the file.
So in such cases when your kube config is not in the default folder in home directory and it is in a
different folder, then you can make use of hyphen, hyphen kube config flag along with the command
that will also work.
For example, let's copy this file and in a different folder I'll paste it.
And here I'll just rename it to say custom hyphen config.
All right.
Now what you can do is in the kubectl when you run the command you can just specify with hyphen hyphen
kube config the name of the custom file that kubectl should use to fetch the control plane.
Related details from.
So this time when I press enter you see it is working.
All right.
So this is a very high level overview about kubectl.
Note that this is primarily a demo based video.
Before we actually configure kubectl I wanted to ensure that the base related to this specific utility
is clear, so that we can directly start with the practicals.
So that's about it.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Installing Kubectl ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we had a great introduction to cube CTL.
Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can install and configure cube CTL, both for
windows as well as Linux environment.
Now for the Mac OS users, the overall step will be very similar to that of Linux.
We will also explore that at an overview.
Now in Google, when you type cube CTL install, go ahead and search for page which is the official
documentation, which is kubernetes.io.
And in turn it will take you to this specific page.
I'll also be attaching the link to this page in our GitHub repository for you to reference.
Now here in cube CTL you have three different approaches for installing it in Linux, installing it
in Mac OS, and installing it in windows.
First, let's go ahead and look into the Linux based installation.
Overall, it is very simple what you need to do now again here there are a lot of steps that are available.
You can use a very simple approach here which is to directly download the binary.
Now again there are steps related to downloading it from package manager of Debian Red hat as well.
So this is also something that you can use.
However, I just wanted to show you the simplest approach.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
So for Linux as of now I have a sample Linux server that I have just created based on ubuntu LTS, and
I am also connected to the server.
Now in this if I run the kubectl you see it is not really available.
So let's go ahead and install that.
So for Linux what you need to do install kubectl binary with curl on Linux.
This is the simplest approach.
You can copy this.
You can add it over here.
So it will download the kubectl binary.
Now if you do a ls this is the main binary of kubectl.
All you need to do you have to just make it executable.
Once this is done, you can move to the appropriate path even if you don't do that.
And if you directly reference from here, you see it is working.
Now in the documentation.
Also you will get a simple reference associated with it.
So here you see it is moving cube CTL to this specific path.
Now again you don't really have to reference documentation for it.
All you can do in Linux is you can move this cube CTL to usr local bin.
And that's about it.
Once this is done, when you run cube CTL from any place, you will get this basic details associated
with it.
And this is what we want in today's video.
Similarly, if you explore the Mac OS based installation step, again there are multiple approaches.
As you can see, you can use curl based approach.
You can use homebrew based approach.
So if I use homebrew the homebrew one will be much more simpler.
You can just run this specific command and that's about it.
Nothing else needs to be done.
And the last one is the windows based approach.
Again you have multiple ways to do that.
We'll use the simplest one.
It can happen that in windows you do not have curl utility available.
Let me show you.
So for example in my system curl is available but in other cases it can happen that it is not.
So what you can do instead of curl, you can just directly copy this.
So this is the x.
You can copy this in the newer tab.
You can just paste it here and it will automatically download the cube CTL for you.
So once it is downloaded from the downloads folder you can just copy this.
And personally what I like to do.
And in C drive if you see I have a binaries folder in your case, if this folder is not present you
can simply create it.
And inside this folder I have multiple binaries that are available Terraform, vault, etc. all you
can do you can copy the cube CTL binary from here.
Now from this specific folder when you run the cube CTL.
Let's try this.
You see it will work.
But the problem at this stage again is that from different folder, if you try to run cube CTL it will
not work.
So what you need, you need to set up the environment variable here now in order to do that in windows.
Again, it is very simple.
You can just open up the advanced system settings.
From here you can click on environment variables and there is a variable of path.
In this.
You can just open this.
And in this you can click on new and you can provide the path.
In case if this is a little difficult you can click on browse.
And within here you can go to C drive binaries.
Click on okay.
Click on okay and click on okay.
All right.
Now when you open up a new terminal and you try running the kubectl you see it is working great.
So that's a quick overview on how you can install kubectl as we know that if you want to use kubectl
to make a request to a Kubernetes cluster, you will also need a kube config file.
So how we can get the kube config file is something that we will be discussing in the upcoming video.
But at this stage make sure that you have kubectl configured in your system.

--- Connecting kubectl to Kubernetes Cluster ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now at this stage we have our managed Kubernetes cluster that is up and running.
We also have kubectl that is configured in our workstation.
So the next step before we start with our exciting practicals is this kube config file.
Because we have to provide this file to kubectl so that it can authenticate to Kubernetes cluster.
And then we can start with learning exciting things based on Kubernetes.
Now one point that you need to note is that based on how you have configured a Kubernetes cluster,
it can be Kubernetes from scratch, or it can be based on managed Kubernetes service based on different
provider.
The way in which you get a kube config file will also differ.
Now, one of the benefit from DigitalOcean point of view is that downloading a kube config file is very
simple.
So when you open up your Kubernetes cluster, all you have to do you see there is a option to download
the config file.
You can directly download it from here.
All right.
So you see this is the config file that got downloaded.
And in fact even if you go to Kubernetes there is a option to download the config file from here as
well.
Anyways, so once you have the config file downloaded.
In fact, let's do one thing before we look into the config file.
Let's open up the terminal and let's go ahead and try running command like kubectl get nodes to see
what are the worker nodes that are configured.
Now at this stage, since config file is not associated at a right path, this is giving you an error.
Now we were discussing that there is a default path that your kubectl will verify and try to get the
config file from.
So the easiest way to get things working is to move your config file to the appropriate default home
directory dot cube folder.
So now let's do one thing again.
We'll be looking at it from the perspective of both Windows and Linux.
The Mac OS based approach will be similar to Linux.
So first let's start with windows.
So in windows I'll go to C drive users XlVi.
Within here I do not have a dot cube folder.
So I'll create one I'll say dot cube.
All right.
And inside this we can go ahead and copy paste the kube config file.
Now from my downloads folder.
This is the kube config file that got downloaded.
I'll go ahead and I'll add it here.
The next important point to remember is that the name of the file must be config.
At this stage you have a bigger name, so this will not really work.
So you have to rename it and make sure it is config.
All right now let's open up the terminal.
Let's see if it is working.
I'll do a cube CTL get nodes.
You see it is still not working.
Now in windows one point you have to keep a note is that although you have renamed the file, but the
file extension still remains to be YAML.
For example, if I open this in Visual Studio Code, you see the name is Config.yaml.
So this is something that you do not really want.
All you have to do is you have to make sure that the file name is config only.
If it is config it will work.
So now let's clear the screen.
We'll run this command once again.
And this time you see it is working great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood on how cube CTL can find the right cube
config file and authenticate to the Kubernetes cluster.
Now let's also explore the same approach from Linux perspective.
Now for this what we will do.
We will copy the contents of this config file over here just for simplicity.
And currently I am already logged in to a Linux server which has cube CTL configured.
So just to verify if I do a cube CTL get nodes, we are getting same set of error.
So here let's create a file called as config.
We'll paste the contents that we copied and I'll save this.
Now again this file needs to be in the home directory dot cube folder in case if it is not present.
If you try to do cube CTL get nodes, you are still getting an error.
Now one approach as we were discussing earlier also where if you do not have the file in the cube folder
of the home directory, you can also make use of this hyphen hyphen cube config flag.
This will also work, but again you don't want to specify this for every command that you run, and
this is the reason why we move it to the dot cube folder.
So let's do one thing.
We'll go ahead and create a dot cube folder in the home directory.
So the command would look something like this mkdir cube.
All right.
Same would work for Mac OS as well I'll press enter.
Now at this stage, before we move the file, I also wanted to show you on how you can reference to
the external file.
So I'll say cube ctl get nodes hyphen hyphen cube config.
And then you can specify the name of the file which is config.
So this will also work.
Now we do not really want this.
So what we'll do we'll move our config file to the dot cube folder that we have created.
Once you have done that now if you do a cube CTL get nodes.
You see it is working directly.
Great.
So this is a very important video.
Make sure that your cube config file is set at a right path, so that when we start with the practicals
using cube CTL, you should not face any issues.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Note - Minikube ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Configuring Kubernetes Using Minikube - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about how we can configure Kubernetes using minikube.
Minikube is also one of the very popular approaches which lot of students use.
So let's go ahead and quickly explore this.
Now one of the great benefits of minikube is that it allows you to quickly set up a local Kubernetes
cluster on a wide variety of operating systems.
It can be macOS, Linux, as well as windows, and this is the main popularity behind minikube.
Now, before we discuss about the minikube based approach, let's look into some of the requirements
related to minikube.
First one is that it requires two CPUs or more.
Second, it requires two GB of free memory, 20 GB of free disk space, and some additional requirements.
For example container or virtual machine manager such as Docker.
You have hyper Kit, you have Hyper-V, you have KVM, VirtualBox, VMware, Fusion Workstation, etc.
lot of flexibilities available.
Now let me also quickly show you from the perspective of documentation, I'll also be attaching the
link in our GitHub for you to reference.
Now, when you look into the installation approaches of minikube, you can get it running in Linux,
you can get it running in Mac OS.
It is available for windows also.
Now in case if you are using windows, there are two approaches.
You can either go ahead and run this in PowerShell or if you don't want a PowerShell based approach,
you can just download the.
Exe binary from here.
So if I click over here, you see it is downloading the minikube installer.
Exe you can use the exe to install minikube in your local environment.
Now one very important point we have to keep a note is this specific one.
So minikube by itself does not work.
So you require some form of a container or a virtual machine manager.
For example, if you want minikube to run in your windows then the windows should have one of these.
So it should have a Docker or Hyper-V and so on.
In case if you are using Mac OS, then maybe you can install Docker so that additional installation
is required.
So this is one very important point.
Now for today's practical we are going to look into a specific installation type of mini cube, and
that is based on the operating system of Linux.
The reason is because it is very straightforward and everyone can follow in their environment as well.
Now, earlier we used to have the installation process of mini cube in windows also.
But the problem that used to happen is that when you have thousands of students, each student, for
example, let's say all of them are using windows.
Now even in windows someone would be using Docker, someone would be using Hyper-V, someone would have
VirtualBox, VMware workstation, and then also in windows.
Also there are multiple set of operating systems Windows 10, Windows 11, some students, they are
based on older operating system.
So as an instructor it became very difficult.
So let's say in future videos some students are facing issues with some of the practicals.
As an instructor, it becomes difficult for us to test because we do not know what exactly is the setup
that student is using along with Mini Cube?
Are they using Mini Cube with VMware, Mini Cube with Hyper-V and so on.
So it becomes very difficult.
However, when everyone is using Mini cube with Linux and if they are facing issues at a later stage.
As an instructor, it becomes easier for us to test.
I can simply launch a new Linux based VM with minikube and I can test the practical also.
So this becomes much more standardized approach.
But again, you can go ahead and install minikube in Windows or Mac OS as well based on the requirement.
So this is one point.
Now personally I also have minikube in my local environment.
For example, if I run minikube status, you see minikube is running now in my windows operating system.
I have Docker desktop that is installed.
As we are discussing, minikube requires certain additional packages.
It can be Hyper-V, Docker, etc. for my personal setup I have Docker and then I use minikube.
You can use other also based on the requirement over here.
Now again, note that I primarily use minikube only for testing.
Otherwise I generally prefer the managed Kubernetes cluster.
It is much more easier.
So with this set, let's go ahead and get started.
As we are discussing for this, we require a server which has two CPUs and two GB of free memory as
a minimum.
So let's go ahead and quickly launch a new virtual machine.
Again, you can launch virtual machine in any place.
It does not matter.
I am using DigitalOcean, but you can use AWS, linode, Azure or any other.
Everything will work.
Alright, so let's go ahead and quickly create a new virtual machine.
Now let me use the India region because this is nearer to me.
Now operating system will be using the ubuntu one.
Whichever LTS is available, you can use the LTS one.
This is a recommended approach and as we are discussing in here, you have to choose any specific VM's
configuration which has minimum of two GB Ram and two CPU.
For example, if I choose this, it has only one CPU.
This will not work.
So at this stage this is the minimum one that is available.
You can even go for the higher one, but we are just going to use the minimum one for our testing.
So this is the approach that we are going to use.
And the authentication method you can use anyone SSH key or password whichever you prefer.
Just for simplicity I am going to use password.
Let's create a password.
Once you have created your root password, let's go a bit down.
You can give a specific host name for the virtual machine and that's about it.
You can go ahead and quickly create a new VM.
Now my personal requirement is that let's say for a cloud provider you have a lot of credits.
In such case, go ahead and launch a server which has a higher memory because two CPU and two GB is
like the bare minimum required to run minikube.
So in case if you have credits that are available as part of the cloud provider, you can go ahead and
use say, four GB Ram with two CPUs or something that is higher than the minimum base requirements.
This is one point to note once you have the server ready, let's go ahead and copy the IP address.
And from the terminal let's quickly connect to this specific server.
Let's specify the password.
And great we are connected.
Now for today's practical, I have created a document that contains all of the steps to configure minikube.
And we are going to follow that.
I'll be also attaching this as part of our GitHub repository for you to reference the documentation
that we use in today's video.
Again, I've added it in the MD file for you to reference.
Now the step number one, as we are discussing before we start installing minikube, we need to configure
Docker.
You can directly use other approaches as well, but we'll keep it simple.
We'll use the Docker based approach.
All right.
So let's go ahead and quickly run each commands that are specified here.
I'll run the first command here.
Let's copy the second one.
The third one.
I'll copy the fourth.
The fifth one.
Let's copy this.
And once this is done, I'll just run apt get update.
Once this is done, we can go ahead and install the Docker related packages.
So let's copy this and let's go ahead and install this.
This is the first very important requirement.
Otherwise the minikube will not run.
Great.
Once the docker is installed you can just verify with systemctl status docker.
You see the docker is active and running.
So this is good news.
Once this is done now we'll start with the minikube installation.
Again.
Minikube installation is very simple.
Only few steps are required.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll copy the first command.
So the main binary is installed.
Now what we are going to do.
We are just going to rename the binary to just minikube.
We are going to make it executable.
And then we are going to move this to usr local bin.
Alright.
This is the only thing that is required.
Along with that we'll also install the kubectl binary because we'll have to interact with the Kubernetes
cluster.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So this will also go ahead and download the kubectl binary will make it executable.
And we'll move this to usr local bin.
All right.
So both of these binaries are now in the path.
Once this is done the step number three is to create a new user for testing purpose minikube.
You will not be able to start directly from root user.
So this is the reason why we are creating a new user in ubuntu.
So we are going to run the user add command.
This is the username.
In this case it is Ziel.
But you can change this with the appropriate user in your environment.
Let's copy this.
I'll add it over here.
Then we are going to add it in the Sudoers also because we require administrator permissions and without
passwords.
So let's add this.
This is going to be the content.
So let's copy this part.
Now make sure that in case if you have created a different user name make sure to replace Ziel with
that username over here.
I'll save this and that's about it.
Now you can switch to the user that you have created.
So let's switch to the user over here.
Now from here we can go ahead and start minikube.
Now starting minikube is very simple.
All you have to do is run minikube start and hyphen.
Hyphen force is important because you are running the system with minimum requirements.
Let's say if you are running a system which has say four GB Ram, then you don't have to use force.
It will work without that also.
So let's go ahead and run this.
So here you see it is giving you a small warning stating that the requested memory allocation of 1967
MIB does not leave room for system overhead.
You may face stability issues.
This is primary reason why generally it is recommended to have a larger server.
But let's say that you don't have option.
You only have a two GB Ram server two CPU.
This is the approach that we can use now the minikube based configuration.
This can take around five minutes because it is downloading a lot of images and then it will set up
the environment.
So let us wait for this to be completed.
All right.
So this took around two minutes and everything is configured.
Now let's go ahead and run the minikube status.
You will see that everything is running.
This is good.
And you can also run the kubectl get nodes command.
You should see one node that is available.
This is a control plane node and the status should be ready.
All right.
Now note that these commands for example minikube status and all of those this will remain to be the
same.
So it is not that the commands that I'm running in Linux, the same commands will not work.
For windows.
Everything will work.
For example, in windows.
Also I have minikube, so if I run minikube status in windows environment, I'm getting the same output.
Or for example when I run kubectl get nodes command over here again I'm getting the same output.
All right.
So all of the commands.
Considering that a Kubernetes cluster is setup, all the commands will remain to be the same irrespective
of the environment.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the installation process for minikube as well.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Basics of Pods ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a very important topic in Kubernetes which is pods.
Now pods are one of the Kubernetes objects that you will be using quite extensively in real world environment
and also in terms of exams.
So let's go ahead and understand the basics of Kubernetes Pods post, which will be discussing things
in more detail.
Now in order to understand about Kubernetes Pod, first let's take a simple analogy related to Docker.
So what does this state?
It states that.
Let's assume that you have recently installed Docker in your system.
Now what is the first thing that you might do.
So you have Docker available.
What is the first thing that you might do.
You might go ahead and try to create a container to see on how exactly things work.
In a very similar terms, if you have Kubernetes cluster that is recently configured, what is the first
thing that you might do?
You might go ahead and try to create a pod.
Now, the overall approach, both at a Docker as well as the Kubernetes way is quite similar.
However, the naming convention that you will see is a little different.
In Docker we call it as container.
In Kubernetes we call it as pod.
Both are very similar.
So let's go ahead and understand the difference between both of them, so that it makes things much
more clear now at a high level.
Overview.
The primary difference between a Docker container and a Kubernetes pod is that a pod can contain one
or more Docker containers.
This is very important part to remember.
And these containers that are part of the pod, they share the same network namespace as well as storage
volumes.
For example, you have a pod.
Now in this pod, it can happen that there are multiple set of containers that are running.
And these containers, since they share the same network, they can intercommunicate between each other
using local host.
However, at an overview, just note that pod is nothing but a container.
It can be a single container based pod.
It can be a multi container based pod.
So if your concept related to Docker container is clear, then Pod is something very, very similar.
Now as part of this video, we are going to go ahead and compare as well as implement Docker set of
commands versus Kubernetes set of commands.
For example, let's say you want to create a new container in Docker.
What you will do you will run for example docker run nginx.
In Kubernetes the equivalent command would be kubectl run nginx followed by image of nginx.
Now if you see the commands are also quite similar.
So if you know the basics of Docker, it will be easier for you to quickly understand the Kubernetes
set of commands as well.
Related to pods.
All right.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and quickly try this out so that we understand things in a better way.
Now as part of today's practical I have a server where I have Docker that is installed.
You do not really need this server.
I am using this so that we can have a comparative analysis.
All you need is a Kubernetes cluster clustered to create the equivalent command with kubectl.
So the first command as we are looking in Docker is you go ahead and create a container.
So even in the earlier slide, we saw that one of the first things that you will do is you might create
a container here.
So in a Docker based server I'll go ahead and I'll create a container.
Let's run a command say docker run nginx.
What it will do.
It will go ahead and create a container for us in a similar way as we know in Kubernetes we refer to
it as pod.
So we'll say kubectl run nginx followed by the image that you want the pod to use, in this case nginx.
I'll press enter and you see a pod of nginx is created.
Now the second command here is docker PS.
What does this do.
It allows you to list the running containers.
The equivalent command would be kubectl get pods.
So for example we have this nginx container that is running.
So if I run say docker PS you see we have this nginx container that is running.
So it basically shows you a list of running containers.
Now equivalent command in Kubernetes is kubectl get pods.
And you see it shows you that we have one pod that is running.
The third command here is docker logs followed by the container.
What it does it allows us to see the logs associated with it.
So for example if I say docker logs followed by the container id, you see this is the logs that we
are seeing in a similar way when it comes to Kubernetes.
When you say kubectl logs followed by the name of pod, in this case it is nginx.
And you see you are getting a similar output to that of docker.
The next important command is docker inspect followed by container.
It basically allows you to get detailed information about a container.
So for example I say docker inspect followed by the container ID will just clear the screen and you
see it shows you detail information related to this.
So if I go a bit up it shows details related to IP addresses, the image based on which the container
is running and so on.
So all of this information has been provided to you.
Now when we discuss about the Kubernetes pod you can say kubectl describe pod nginx.
And similarly here also you get detailed information related to it.
For example here you see that this is the IP address, the node in which the pod is running and so on.
All right.
The next important command is to execute a interactive shell.
So basically let's say that you have this Docker container that is running.
Now you want to login Logging inside this Docker container.
Generally, when we discuss about Docker, we run this command followed by the container id and you
can just specify bash.
Considering that the container image has bash, this will work.
And now you see you are logged in inside the Docker container.
So this is inside Docker container.
Similarly when we discuss about Kubernetes pod you can run kubectl exec followed by the name of pod
followed by bash.
And now you see I got logged in inside the nginx container.
Let's do a ctrl d to come out of it at both the places.
And the last command that we are going to explore is to remove a container or to remove a pod.
Now in Docker the overall command is docker rm, which is docker remove followed by container.
In Kubernetes it is kubectl delete pod followed by the name.
Now in docker I'll just do a control c and we'll just do a docker rm followed by the name of the container
or the container id, and that's about it.
Our container is removed.
So if you do a docker PS it is no longer present docker PS hyphen a, which also shows you stopped containers.
It is no longer present.
Now in Kubernetes you can just do a kubectl delete pod followed by the name of pod which is nginx and
this will delete the pod.
Now if you just do a kubectl get pods, you see no pods are currently running.
Great.
So I hope with this comparison table and the associated practical both at a Docker and Kubernetes level,
I hope this has made you a little comfortable with the kubectl set of commands specifically related
to pods.
And again, as we were discussing, just note that a pod can contain one container as well as multiple
containers.
As part of today's video, we have just used a simple pod which contains a single container of nginx
image.
But in case if you would like, you can also create a multi container pods which will be discussing
in the upcoming set of videos.
All right.
And this specific part where we were discussing that the containers inside the pod share the same network
namespace and storage volume.
This is also something that we will be discussing in detail as part of upcoming videos.
As part of this specific video where we are going to discuss the basic, I wanted to keep it simple
so that the most important part when we compare both of them is clearly understood.
Now, before we conclude few important pointers that you have to keep a note specifically related to
Kubernetes pod.
First one is that a pod always runs on a node.
As we have learned, pod is nothing but a container.
So container needs a specific node to run.
So this is a point to note.
Now again, depending upon the configuration, it can happen that the pod is running on the Kubernetes
master node itself, which is the control plane that is not recommended.
The pod ideally in production environment, will run on a dedicated set of worker nodes.
The second is a node is a worker machine in Kubernetes.
Third is each node is managed by a Kubernetes control plane, and the fourth is a node can have multiple
pods.
Now let's do one thing before we conclude.
I also wanted to emphasize on this point from a practical point of view.
So let's go ahead and try it out now just for simplicity, as part of the Kubernetes cluster, when
you do a kubectl get nodes, this is a managed Kubernetes cluster that I have.
There is one node that is appearing over here and this is a worker node.
All right.
This is not a master node.
In case if you have configured Kubernetes using minikube then you will only have the control plane node
here and no separate worker nodes.
Now if you do a kubectl describe node followed by the name of node.
Now this is very similar to the earlier set of commands where we ran kubectl CTL describe pod followed
by the pod name.
So it gives us detailed information about that specific object.
This time the command remains to be the same, but instead of pod we are specifying node.
And this is the node name that we want to get detail information for.
Now, when I press enter, it gives us detail information related to this specific node including the
IP address.
So this is the internal IP.
And this is the external IP of the worker node that is associated.
All right.
So let's do one thing from a different tab.
Let's go ahead and create two pods I'll say cube CTL run nginx zero one from the image of nginx.
So this is a pod number one.
And we'll create one more pod called as nginx hyphen zero two.
All right.
So total of two different pods are created.
Now when you do kubectl get pods you see total of two pods are currently running.
Now you can say kubectl get pods similar command with o of wide.
All right.
So this is basically output of wide.
Now when I press enter it gives you more detailed information specifically this one.
So it states that this pod is running on this specific IP and this specific worker node.
All right.
Now if you see both of the pod are running on the same worker node which is OP 82, and the same thing
that you see over here.
All right.
And note that this IP that you see over here, it is not the worker node IP, it is actually the IP
address of the pod.
All right.
So once you are done with the practical you can go ahead and delete both the pod.
Let's in fact do that.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the basics of Kubernetes pod.
I hope with this you understood this specific Kubernetes object.
And in the upcoming video we'll be discussing about this in more detail.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Multiple Ways to Create Kubernetes Objects ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now today's video is also going to be very important.
And in this video we are going to discuss about multiple ways that you can use to create a Kubernetes
object.
Now the reason why I say it to be very important, because the learnings that we are going to gain in
this video will be implemented for a wide variety of Kubernetes objects in the exam.
It is going to be important and specifically in real world environment, the learning that we are going
to discuss will be used quite extensively.
All right.
So this video is going to be based for many upcoming videos where we'll be discussing things in detail.
So let's understand things carefully.
Now at this stage we have started experimenting with some of the kubectl related commands to create
some objects in a Kubernetes environment.
Now, although this is easy and it creates the appropriate object in Kubernetes, there is also one
more way in which the same object can be created, apart from running this specific command.
So this is where the next slide comes into picture, which states that there are two major ways that
you can use to create an object in Kubernetes.
One is using the kubectl run command.
This is something that we have already learned.
And second primary way is using the manifest file.
Now generally in production environments you will be using this manifest file specifically for creating
the objects.
Let's look into what exactly this is.
Now at a high level overview.
This is how a manifest file looks like.
And it is basically a YAML or a JSON file that defines the desired state of a Kubernetes object.
Now if you look into this file, it is a YAML file and what it states inside the containers.
Here it states that the name of the container must be nginx container and the image must be nginx.
So from this two part only, we can easily identify that Kubernetes is going to create a pod.
Alright, the kind is pod and the pod will be created using the image of nginx and within here the name
part.
So the name of pod is going to be nginx, and the name of the underlying container is going to be nginx
container.
Now the question that comes is the kubectl run command by itself is so easy.
Why do you want to make things so complicated?
By defining what you want to create in a YAML file, we'll be discussing about the benefits that this
provides.
First, let's go ahead and try creating a pod based on the manifest file.
Now for today's practical I have created a folder of CP labs hyphen k8's in my C drive.
You can create it anywhere else, and this folder will be using for many of the practical.
Specifically when it comes to creation of manifest files for various objects.
Now when I open up the folder, I already have a file called as pod dot YAML.
And if I open this, this is how the file really looks like.
Now if you read this specific file, it will become easier to understand as we are discussing.
The kind here is pod.
So a pod will be created.
The name is nginx, so the name of the pod is nginx and the image is nginx.
The image for this pod is nginx and this is the container name.
So let's go ahead and first try to create a pod using this specific file post which will be discussing
things in detail.
So from this specific folder I'll open up the terminal and we'll go ahead and run a command called as
kubectl apply.
We'll say that I want to apply the contents that are defined in a file called as pod dot YAML.
All right.
When I press enter you see it says that pod of nginx is created.
And now when you do a kubectl get pods we have a nginx pod that is running in a similar way.
Let's say that you want to delete whatever objects that were defined in this specific manifest file.
You can say kubectl delete followed by the file name pod dot YAML and you see the nginx pod is deleted.
Great.
So now that we understand the basics of the manifest file, let's look into what advantages that this
approach provides to us.
The first major benefit here is that manifest file can be added as part of version control.
So it can happen that you have created a specific manifest file today.
Now after seven days there is a custom requirement.
So you modify the manifest file to support that specific requirement.
Then after 30 days again you modify the manifest file to support new set of requirements.
Now within here the main benefit here is that after say one year, you have made 1520 changes to the
manifest file and then the Kubernetes objects.
So if this manifest file is part of the version control, then you can easily see that over the time.
These are the changes that were made as part of the manifest file.
And in case if there are any issues you can also roll back to the previous versions.
now.
In fact, let me also quickly show you this.
So in one of the ten git repository that I have, let's go ahead and upload this manifest file.
Now again this is just for demo.
Let's say pod dot YAML.
I'll copy the contents.
I'll add it here and I'll commit the change.
All right.
So this is the main file.
Now let's say tomorrow I am modifying this file and I add a different image.
I commit the change over here.
Now let's say that after I have made some change in the manifest file.
And then I did a kubectl apply.
Now your application is not working fine.
So you might be wondering what exactly is the change that has happened.
Now if you have recently done it, then again you will remember but over a longer period of time, say
one year, two years, there can be hundreds of changes that might have happened.
And you want to see what are the exact changes that have happened in the past six months.
So in such cases, it is important that this is committed as part of version control.
So if you look into this specific here, you see it clearly shows you that earlier the image was nginx.
And as part of the new commit the image is now httpd.
So this part is extremely important for real world organizations because they are not just dealing with
Pod.
They'll have hundreds of different Kubernetes objects that multiple teams are working on.
And this is the reason why it is very important that all of the team use this manifest file based approach
so that it is in the version control.
And also, if a different team member wants to see what exactly is being created, how exactly it is
created, they can just look into your git repository to see the manifest file and can analyze things
accordingly.
All right.
So this is one major benefit.
The second major benefit of manifest file is that it is not necessary that you just have one resource.
It can happen that your application requires ten resources.
So in a single YAML file, you can specify the details of ten different Kubernetes objects, and all
you'll have to do is you have to run a kubectl apply followed by the name of the YAML file, and everything
gets created for you.
Now if you try to do it through kubectl command.
So say you might run kubectl command to create a pod.
Then again you'll run kubectl command to create different objects like service and so on.
So what happens if there are 1015 different objects.
Will you run 1015 different set of commands?
Yes you can, but it becomes difficult.
So maybe one time you will run the command.
But what happens if you want to duplicate it in a different Kubernetes cluster?
Will you manually run those 1015 commands?
Again, it is not really efficient.
So in case you have a YAML file with all of the contents that are defined, it becomes easier.
All you have to do is you have to run a kubectl apply on the YAML file.
All of the objects are created for you now in a different Kubernetes cluster.
If you want to create similar set of objects, just take the YAML file, run apply and that does the
job for you.
Now, before we conclude, I also wanted to give you a real world kind of example specifically related
to benefit number two, where we say that a single YAML file can contain multiple sets of objects.
Now this is a YAML file related to calico.
Now again, we are not going to discuss things in detail at this stage.
But just note that if you see this YAML file, it has around 7600 lines and there are multiple set of
objects that are created.
Now in Kubernetes, Pod is not the only object.
There are hundreds of different objects that are available.
So you see this is one, then this is two, then this is three and so on.
So if I just scroll down things it is very very extensive file.
All right.
So again this is the benefit of YAML file.
Let's assume that you do not have a YAML file.
And you want to run the kubectl command for each of the object, how many hours it is going to take.
And the second approach, if the manifest file is present, all you do is you copy the manifest file,
run the kubectl apply and all of the object gets created for you.
And this is the main benefit here.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the importance of the manifest file.
Again, as part of this course, we are going to explore both the commands to create a specific object
as well as to create objects using the manifest file.
Now one of the benefit here again, this is a great approach where you can translate this command.
Let's say this is the command that you have, but you do not really want to write the manifest file
from scratch.
So you can easily convert a command to a manifest file.
We will be discussing about all of this exciting topic in the upcoming set of videos, but overall this
is very simple.
We are also going to look into the structure of the manifest file in more detail, and how you can create
one from scratch so that you can become expert both at a command level as well as manifest file level.
So with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Basics of Kubernetes Resource Types ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the basics of Kubernetes resource types.
Now, in order to understand this topic in a better way, we are going to take a simple analogy associated
with a hosting provider.
Now, many years back, when I was learning Linux and hosting websites as a freelancer for some of the
customers back during the college days around 1415 years back, one of the primary offerings that you
would see that various hosting providers would offer is a physical server or a virtual machine.
So this is where your entire life cycle of your application would typically reside.
And in fact, that was a good time because we used to earn decent amount of pocket money by freelancing.
Good enough to eat bale in India with the best friend.
However, in the past many years there has been great strides towards the technology sector.
And nowadays, if you see when you discuss about cloud provider server virtual machines are one of the
base offerings that are being provided.
Along with that, there are hundreds of different services that a typical cloud provider will offer
that will help you in your overall application lifecycle management, or also help you in order to deal
wide variety of common use cases across organizations.
So let's take an example.
So currently I am in AWS.
Now in AWS if you will see there are so many services.
You see these are all the primary services.
There are so many services that are available that it is even difficult to remember all of the names,
even if you have done the professional level certification, because there are so many updates, so
many new services that are coming to wide set of cloud providers in a similar way.
Earlier, even DigitalOcean primarily used to offer virtual machines.
But nowadays, you see there are so many other features that are being offered, like functions.
You have Kubernetes databases, the object storage container registry, and so on.
And this is common for almost all of the provider nowadays.
Now in a similar way, when we discuss about Kubernetes, it is important for us to know that although
we can host our custom application or custom website in pods, it might not always be enough for the
entire lifecycle management Based on the use case, pot might want to interact with various other resource
types that are available in Kubernetes for the entire life cycle, and this is pretty common in almost
all of the organizations.
So at a high level overview, when we discuss about the resource types, note that Pod is one of the
resource types that are available.
Kubernetes has a wide variety of resources that you can configure depending upon the use case.
For example, you have pod, you have secret.
Now secrets is something that is easy to understand.
So what it states store sensitive data like passwords and keys securely.
So for example, you might not want to hard code the credentials as part of the pods.
You can store the credentials as part of the secrets object in Kubernetes.
And then this secret object can communicate to your pod.
And pod can fetch the appropriate credentials from these secrets.
So all of these use cases are pretty common in the organization.
And throughout the course we are going to discuss about wide range of very popular Kubernetes resource
types that you will encounter while working with organizations, Organization and they are also part
of the certification exams.
Now the question that comes is how do I know what are the resource types that are available as part
of Kubernetes?
So based on the resource type, you can create an object in Kubernetes, which is basically a live instance
of a resource that is running as part of your cluster.
For example, in AWS, if I want to see what are the services that are available, I can easily find
that through the GUI.
You see, I can easily find it through the GUI.
Now similarly, when it comes to Kubernetes, how do I know what are different resource types or different
features that are available over here?
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
Now in Kubernetes you can run the kubectl API resources command.
So this command at a high level overview will give you the details of all of the important resource
types that are available.
So if you see let's go a bit up.
If you see this is the name.
Now we have been working with one of the resource which is this one.
All right.
We have been working with pods.
However you see there are so many other resource types that are available.
Each resource type has its own set of features.
Some of the resource types are extremely important, and you will see that organization uses many of
the resource types that you see over here quite extensively for day to day management of their website
or application hosted in Kubernetes.
All right.
So this is a very high level overview about a Kubernetes resource type.
The main aim of this video was to ensure that you understand that Kubernetes is more than Pod.
There are various other resource types similar to there are various other services apart from virtual
machines that are available in a cloud provider.
Similar way various other resource types are available in Kubernetes.
Many of them are very popular, and we will be learning about other resource types as well in detail.
As part of this course.
We started with Pod because this is one of the fundamental and one of the most used resource type in
Kubernetes.
And once you understand about the pod, we are going to discuss about other resources that are used
in integration with pods for the overall application lifecycle management.
So that's an overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Basic Structure of a Manifest File ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a basic structure of a manifest file.
Now manifest file is quite important not only from the course perspective because we are going to use
it quite extensively, but also from the exam perspective and also from the real world environment.
So before we go ahead and discuss about the manifest file from the perspective of other Kubernetes object,
at an overview, we should know the basic structure post, which will be discussing things in more detail.
Now at this stage we had created a simple pod based manifest file.
What it did.
It created a simple pod in our Kubernetes cluster.
Now in this manifest file there are multiple fields like API version kind metadata that is available.
It is important for us to understand at a overview what exactly this means, so that our understanding
of manifest file is clear before we start using it for other objects as well.
Now, at a high level overview, when you look into the basic structure of a pod manifest.
It looks something similar to this.
So you have the API version.
So this is where you provide the actual API version.
The kind is basically the resource type.
So in Kubernetes there are a wide variety of resource types that are available.
So what data that you add in kind will also change.
In this case we have added a pod but it can be other resource types as well.
Then in the metadata you have name.
Name is the name of the actual object that gets created in Kubernetes.
If you see the name, here is nginx.
So the actual name of the pod will be nginx.
And then you have the pod spec which is the specification.
Now you have defined that I want to create a pod, but pod behind the scenes we know it is nothing but
container or multiple set of container.
So what should be the image based on which the container should be launched from.
And various other set of specification will go inside the spec over here.
So if you see in the containers you have defined the name of container and the image of nginx.
Now for your reference, I have also added the basic structure of a manifest file related to Pod, along
with the appropriate description, so that it is easier for you to revise at a later stage.
First, let's go ahead and understand this from a practical point of view as well.
Now for today's video I have a pod dot YAML file.
This is the file that we had created earlier.
So let's go ahead and understand each field in more detail.
Now the first part here is API version.
The value here is version one.
Now again the question that comes is how do you get this value.
We are going to discuss this in a moment.
But before that I hope you understood this part, which is kind.
So this is the kind of resource that you actually want to create in Kubernetes.
So here we have defined that kind is Pod.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and understand this in more detail.
Now in CLI you can run a command of kubectl API resources.
And this is going to give you a lot of information.
Now in fact let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try to fit this in a single line.
So it's easier.
Now in this you have a wide variety of resource types that are available in Kubernetes that you can
create.
Now one of the resource types that we were working with is pods.
Now in here associated with the name of pods.
You will also see that there is a specific column of kind.
So what it states that if you want to create a pod, then in a manifest file you have to define this
specific information.
For example the kind here is Pod.
So this is the reason why you see in the kind you have added pod.
In a similar way.
It is also showing you this API version.
In this case of Pod, the API version that you have to use is this version one.
And similarly here you see you have used version one.
Now it is not necessary that you always have to use version one.
Again, it depends on the resource type that you create.
So here you see some of them has version one.
Some of them have different set of API version that is available.
So depending upon the API version you have to add it as part of the manifest file.
Now let's do one thing in the kind over here we have a pod with a capital P.
Let's try to change it with a smaller case P and see if this works.
So within our CLI let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply with hyphen f on pod dot YAML.
And immediately you see we got an error what it states pod in version one.
So this is the API version one cannot be handled as pod no kind pod which is the smaller case pod.
So basically in this specific API version, it is not able to find pod with a smaller case P, and this
is the reason why it is very important that you add the proper case over here to ensure that there are
no errors.
All right.
I hope with this you understood this specific part.
Now, the next important part that you will see for other resource types as well is the metadata.
So this is the actual name of the object that gets created.
So let's do one thing.
Since we have reverted it to pod over here.
Let's go ahead and run kubectl apply over here.
And now let's change this to nginx two the same file.
I'll save this and let's run the kubectl apply again.
Now you see in total of two pods were created one with the name of nginx, second with the name of nginx.
Hyphen two.
So in fact if you do kubectl get pods, you see that you have one pod with the name of nginx?
Second pod with the name of nginx.
Hyphen two.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood this part also.
The next part is related to the pod spec and inside this you have container.
This is the name of container and this is the image based on which the container should be launched.
Now again the question sometimes that comes is how do I know that if I'm creating Pod, these are the
options that I need to use?
Or are there any other options that are also available that I can use as part of the pod dot YAML based
on custom use cases?
The answer is yes.
Now, in the official Kubernetes API related documentation, I will also be attaching this link in our
GitHub for you to reference.
So within here again, since we know that there are multiple resource types, you also have multiple
set of resources that are available.
Let's say I want to create a Kubernetes pod.
So I'll click on here And within.
Here it gives you information related to what goes inside the YAML file.
For example, API version is something that we saw.
Kind is something that we saw.
Metadata is something that we saw and spec is something that we saw.
Now if you see in the kind over here, there is no hyperlink inside.
However, in metadata there is some hyperlink over here.
Even in spec there is a hyperlink.
Why is that?
Because inside metadata we have some information similarly inside spec also you see we have some information
however inside this.
So it's not like inside kind.
You have some other information.
This is not there.
This by itself is quite sufficient.
And this is the reason why in the API documentation, if there are some other fields that you can add
under one, you will have the information about that as well.
For example let's explore spec.
Now if I click over here it gives you all of the important fields that you can add under spec.
Now, among all of that, we had taken example of two, which are the two.
Let's explore.
Let's try to find.
You see, there are so many fields that are available it might be difficult to just go through.
So first we had used the field of container.
So this specific part we had used this.
Now inside containers also you have a hyperlink.
Let's open this now inside the container.
Also we had used two specific field.
One was the name and second one was the image.
However is this the only thing that we can add under the containers?
Answer is no.
There are so many other fields that we can add as part of this.
And this is the beauty of Kubernetes.
It allows us to achieve wide variety of custom use cases based on requirement, because there are so
many features that are available.
All right.
Now we are going to discuss about many of these fields in great detail in the upcoming video.
However, at this stage, it is important for us to understand this from a structural point of view.
All right, so I hope with this you understood about this from the overall structural point of view.
Now, again, in case if you would like to know what exactly this means or what exactly this means,
then you can always go to this API set of documentation and look into what exactly each field is all
about.
For example, name here, which is this specific part what it states it is the name of the container.
Each container in a pod must have a unique name.
This is very important part to remember.
Sometimes what happens is you have a pod with multiple set of containers, and these containers do not
have a unique name.
And when you try to do a kubectl apply, you will get an error.
And this is where if you read the description associated with the field, it basically will give you
a good overview on what exactly this field is all about, and maybe some of the important nuances that
you need to remember.
Great.
So I hope with this now you started to understand about the basic structure of manifest file in a better
detail.
So before we conclude this video, I wanted to give you three four more examples related to different
Kubernetes objects and how their manifest file really looks like.
However, before we do that, one important part to remember is that you do not really have to create
this manifest file from scratch.
There are ways in which the manifest file can be generated for you automatically, and we will be discussing
about those in upcoming videos.
However, even if it is generated still, it is important for us to understand the structures in case
if you are troubleshooting or in case if you are enhancing an existing manifest file.
If you know the structure, it becomes easier for you to work on the manifest file in Google.
When you type Kubernetes, create pod again.
Kubernetes, as we know, is one of the most popular container orchestration tool available in the industry.
And this is the reason why you will have tons of articles, tons of tutorials that are available.
So even if you do not want to generate the manifest file, you will see hundreds of examples of manifest
file that are already available in documentation and wide set of tutorial links that you will find.
For example, let's say you want to create a pod.
You can open this and in the documentation you will see the basic manifest file that is available for
you.
In a similar way, let's say you want to create a different Kubernetes object, let's say jobs.
Now again, we are not really discussing about what exactly this resource is all about.
We are just taking few examples.
So I open jobs.
If you look into the example again, you see you have a manifest file based example.
Again you have API version kind here.
Changes metadata name remains to be the same.
And in the spec section you have different set of specification that is available specifically for this
kind of job.
Similarly, let's take one more example of deployments.
All right.
Let's look into the documentation.
And again here you see you have the manifest file that is available.
The API version this time is different.
You see apps slash v1.
Now if you compare this to the detail that we see as part of the kubectl API resources, let's try to
find deployment.
Let's go a bit down.
So this is deployment.
You see this is deployment.
So the name here is deployment with a capital D.
And the API version is apps slash v1.
And same here you see app slash v1.
The kind is deployment.
The metadata is also present.
And in the spec section you have a different information that is available.
And again, depending upon the resources that you create in Kubernetes, this part, the spec section
can change accordingly.
Some resources do not have spec section.
For example Kubernetes secret.
When you look into Kubernetes secret object over here, you will see we are interested in this part.
All right API version is similar kind a similar metadata is similar.
But here instead of spec you have data.
So depending upon what object you are creating in Kubernetes, this part of API version kind metadata
will generally remain to be similar to the spec part can change based on the overall object.
So at an overview I hope with this you understood the high level basic structure of a manifest file
and how you can find the details on what exactly goes inside the manifest file from the Kubernetes API
set of documentation.
So that's an overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Generating Manifest File through CLI Command ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an interesting topic on how we can generate a manifest
file through CLI command.
Now at this stage we know two important things.
First is that the CLI commands are quite easy to run, so you can go ahead and quickly create a new
pod using the kubectl command.
This is one learning.
Second important learning is that manifest files are also used to create the object in Kubernetes.
And this is the preferred way in production environments.
Why?
Because it provides a wide set of benefits like version control, team collaboration, etc..
So based on this important learning, we know that creating manifest file is something that is little
time consuming and you do not really want to do it for all of the object that you might create.
So you need to find an easier way in which the manifest files are automatically generated for you.
For example, you have a kubectl command to create a object like pod, and this command should automatically
generate the appropriate manifest file for you so that you can deploy your object using the manifest
file, and then you can add it as part of the version control.
So this is a much more better approach.
So in today's video we are going to look exactly into how we can use kubectl to generate a manifest
file.
Now before we do that there are two important flags that you can add as part of the kubectl command
that we need to understand.
First important one is dry run is equal to client.
So when you add this as part of your kubectl command it validates a Kubernetes resource definition without
actually applying it to the cluster.
So for example in the output here you see you have pod nginx created.
And in the bracket you have dry run.
So the actual object is not really created in Kubernetes but the validation has been completed.
In fact let's also look into it now from my CLI.
When I do kubectl get pods.
Currently there are no pods that are available in case if you have some previously running pod you can
do cube CTL delete pod followed by pod name like nginx over here.
Anyways, now the first thing that we had learned is that whenever you run a command like cube CTL,
run nginx followed by image of nginx, what this will do, it will create the actual object in Kubernetes
cluster.
So now when you do kubectl get pods, you see we have one pod running.
Now in a similar way when you run command say cube CTL run nginx two with image of nginx.
Again, when I press enter, we know that Kubernetes will create a new pod with this name.
However, when you say dry hyphen run is equal to client, it will do the appropriate validation, but
the actual object will never be created in Kubernetes.
For example, when I press enter, you see it says pod nginx two created in a dry run.
So now if you do kubectl get pods, you will see the nginx two pod never got created at this stage.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood at an overview about dry run equals to client, which helps you in
the overall validation year.
Now again the main importance of this will be understood in just a moment.
Now before we explore about the second important flag, it is important for us to note that whenever
you run the kubectl command to create, say, pod in the output, you will primarily just see the confirmation
message.
For example pod nginx created.
That is the only message that you will see.
And from here we can confirm that alright, pod has now been created.
However, when you add an additional flag as part of the kubectl command.
So here you have a flag of output hyphen o of YAML.
So what it will do not only it will create the necessary resource in the cluster, but it will also
print the full YAML configuration of the created resource.
For example, when I say kubectl run nginx two with the image of nginx and I'll add an output of YAML.
So not only it will create the pod, but this YAML file over here that was used to create the pod object
behind the scenes will be made available to us.
And this is very important.
So now comes the important and the main learning of the course, which states that when you combine
the dry run equals to client with the output of YAML, the Kubernetes will go ahead and generate the
manifest file for you for the object that is planned to be created without creating the actual object.
All right, let's look into it.
Let's clear the screen and let's look into the important learning, which states that when you combine
the command let's say nginx for with the image of nginx I'll run dry.
Hyphen run is equal to client with the output of YAML.
So what it will do.
This part will not create the actual object in Kubernetes.
Otherwise if you do not include it, this pod will be created and you will get the YAML file which you
do not really want.
So this is the reason why this edition is important.
And along with that you add the output of YAML.
Now when you press enter you see the pod manifest file has been generated for you automatically.
And if you want to save this, you can save this in say pod custom dot YAML.
And within the Cape Labs CA test, you have a Pod custom YAML that is available.
In fact, let's open this with our code.
And within here you have a pod custom dot YAML.
You also have a pod dot YAML that we had created earlier.
Pod custom dot YAML.
You see API version kind metadata.
Everything is automatically generated for you, so you don't really have to create a manifest file from
scratch along with that.
Generally, when you generate a manifest file automatically, some other fields get added as part of
this.
So again it is not necessary that you need to have this, you can remove it as well.
For example, you can remove this as well and make it much more streamlined.
However, even if you have this, it is not really going to create any issue for you.
All right, so I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood on how you can generate the
manifest file through the CLI command.
For this you need to understand the basics of dry run.
And second is the output of YAML.
Now again this specific approach that we were discussing, not only it allows you to create this manifest
file for the pod object, but various other objects that you will be creating in Kubernetes.
This is the approach that you will be using to generate the manifest file easily.
So before we conclude, go ahead and also delete all the pods that are currently running.
You can also use kubectl delete pods hyphen hyphen all.
So this will go ahead and delete all of the pods that you see over here.
Great.
So a lot of interesting and important learning as part of this lecture.
So with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Creating Multi-Container Pods ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to look into how you can create Multi-container pods in Kubernetes.
Now before we look into it, it is important for us to understand the difference between a container
and a pod.
In fact, we have already discussed it in the earlier video.
So this is going to be a revision slide which states that a pod can contain one or more containers that
share the same network namespace and storage volume.
So if this is a Docker container, for example, when you discuss about Kubernetes, a pod can contain
one container.
It can also contain multiple set of containers.
So this is one of the big differences.
And apart from that, whatever containers that are present as part of the pod, they can communicate
through localhost.
So in today's video the primary aim is to understand on how you can create a pod with multiple sets
of containers.
Now one point that we need to keep a note is that whenever you use a command like kubectl run nginx,
this will go ahead and only create a single container based port, and this is the only option that
is available through the kubectl run command.
So whenever you want to create a pod with multiple sets of containers, you need to go through a manifest
file based approach here.
So now if we look into a manifest file based option at this stage we have been creating a pod with a
single container.
And this can also be seen in the manifest file over here where under the pod spec you have containers
and you have detail associated with only one container which is nginx container and the image is nginx.
So if you want to create multi-container based pod, it is very simple.
All you have to do is you have to define additional details as part of the containers part.
So if you look into the right hand side this time you have added one more detail.
For example, the container image is reddish and the container name is reddish hyphen container.
So this will go ahead and create in total of two container for this specific port.
All right.
So with this base set let's go ahead and try this out.
Now for today's practical I have a port YAML that we have created in the earlier videos as well.
In fact let's open this entire folder with VS code.
Within here we have a pod dot YAML that we have created earlier.
So the overall format as we know remains to be same.
The only difference here let's in fact create a separate file called as Multi-container pods.
Pod dot YAML.
I'll add this.
The only difference here is this part.
Containers will remain same in the containers part.
You can add one more entry.
Make sure that you have a different name.
Let's say redis container and also a different image let's say Redis.
Now one point again we'll be discussing this in detail in the upcoming videos.
But since you have communication that happens via the same network between containers, if you have
nginx container listening on 80 port, then second nginx container.
If you try to run it will give you an error because again the second container is also trying to attach
to port number 80 which the first container has used.
All right.
So just for simplicity we have made use of a different container.
Again we'll be discussing about this part in detail at a later stage.
But at this point let's just name this as Multi Container Pod.
And I'll save this now from the CLI.
Let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply on the multi container pod.
And the multi container pod has been created.
Now just for a reference I'll also go ahead and create a single container based pod because I wanted
to show you one important difference.
So I'll do a kubectl apply on pod dot YAML as well.
All right.
Now once you have done that let's go ahead and do a kubectl get pods over here.
Now in a single container based pod You will see in the ready you have one out of one.
So basically one container and one container is available.
And in the multi container pod you have two out of two.
So from here also you can easily identify which pod has how many containers.
This is one part.
Now when you do a cube CTL describe let's say you want to see what containers exactly are running.
What is the image that is used as part of the container?
You can say cube CTL describe pod followed by the name of pod.
Let's press enter.
Now within here you will get information related to it.
So this is the container one information.
This is the container two information.
So in the container one information you can easily see that the image is nginx container two information.
You can easily see that the image is reddish.
And the name also is different.
You have nginx container.
You have reddish container.
So now that we understand the basic of multi container based pod, let's look into some more important
topic related to it.
The first important topic is related to exec into a container.
Now, by default, when you run a kubectl exec into a container pod, it will connect to the first container,
even if it is a multi container pod.
This is very important part that needs to be understood.
For example.
In fact let's do a kubectl get pods over here.
You have a ingenix pod.
You have a multi container pod.
Now at this stage when you do a kubectl exec you want to connect inside the container and you run bash.
So currently you see I am connected inside the container.
This is easy.
Why.
Because this pod only has one container.
So now if I do a ctrl D to exit in a similar way, this time instead of the ingenix pod, I'll add multi
container pod.
Alright, when I press enter you see it states defaulted container nginx container.
And this part that you see over here, this is the nginx container.
And this is not the Redis container.
All right.
Now the question that comes is how do I connect to the Redis container.
I do not want to connect to the nginx container.
So in such cases the next slide learning proves to be important which states that if you want to connect
to other containers, you can add a hyphen c flag followed by the name of the container.
So in such cases it will now connect to the Redis container.
Since Redis container is present, and this is like an explicit way of specifying that I want to connect
to a very specific container.
All right.
So as we know that in fact I think we are connected inside the container only.
Let's come out of it.
So when you do a kubectl describe pod multi container pod from here you can get the container name.
So by default as we know it will connect to the first, which is the nginx container.
Now we want to connect to this container.
So I'll copy this I'll clear the screen I'll do a kubectl exec id.
This time we'll explicitly specify with hyphen c that I want to connect to the Redis container.
And then this time we'll do a bash.
Now we got an error.
Why.
Because we have not specified the pod.
So let's also specify the pod here Multi-container pod I'll press enter.
And this time you are connected inside the redisai container and not the nginx container.
Great.
So once you have completed with the practical, you can go ahead and delete the resources that have
been created with pod dot YAML file and also with the multi-container pod dot YAML file.
So I hope with this you understood on how you can create multi-container pods, and also how you can
connect to the individual container using LXC.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Command And Arguments ---

Harry on.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the commands and arguments that you can add as part
of Podspec.
Now again, an important video, because this is something that you will regularly be working with in
terms of real world environment and also in terms of exams.
This topic is important now in order to understand this topic in a better terms, it is also important
for us to revise the concepts related to some of the Dockerfile instructions, specifically the entry
point and cmd, because this command and arguments are quite related to that.
So let's take a step back into Docker to make sure that our concepts are clear.
Post which will be discussing about today's topic.
Now, one point that we need to understand is that whenever a Docker image is built based on a specific
Docker file, that Docker file can have certain entry point or cmd instruction, which in turn defines
what the container needs to run whenever it starts.
Now, it does not really matter if it starts based on Docker or based on container orchestration like
Kubernetes, ECS, etc..
So let's assume that this is a container image called as nginx container image.
Now this container image is built using this specific Docker file.
And this Docker file contains the cmd instruction which states nginx g demon off.
So what does this cmd instruction states?
It states that whenever a specific container runs, this is the process.
Or this is the command that needs to be used.
So let's understand it with more clarity.
So this point states that whenever a container starts from a Docker image, it will use the appropriate
entry point or cmd command that is being configured to start the process inside the container automatically.
For example, this is the container image that was built in the previous slide using the Docker file.
Now, whenever you create a container based on a container image, so you have a nginx container that
is built.
Now what exactly this container will do when it starts, it will go ahead and run this command nginx
daemon off behind the scenes.
And nginx will be running over here.
All right.
So this is how generally you can define that when a container starts what needs to be done by default.
So before we proceed further let me also quickly show you this so that our concept is clear.
Now for example, when you explore the official nginx image from Docker Hub, let's look into the Docker
file over here.
So in the docker file you will see that the actual nginx image is built from Debian as a base image.
Now if you go a bit down, one of the most important part of today's video over here is this part cmd
nginx g daemon off.
So whenever you pull a image of nginx and when you start the Docker container, it will go ahead and
run this.
Now.
In fact, let me also quickly show you So whenever you go ahead and run a container based on nginx image,
you see automatically enginex start.
You don't really have to manually start the nginx service.
Why?
Because of the set of Entrypoint and CMD instructions that are part of the docker file based on which
the container image was built.
Now let us take one more example that will make things much more clear.
So in this specific example you have a Docker file where you have a from instruction.
So this Docker image that we are building will be based on a BusyBox image.
And in here we have added a CMD instruction which states ping c3 google.com.
So ultimately what will happen when you go ahead and launch a container based on the image that gets
built?
What will happen?
Let's say that this is the container image that was built from the previously seen Docker file.
Now when you go ahead and run a container, if you see the command docker run and followed by the custom
image over here.
What will happen?
The command that was added as part of the CMD instruction which was being C3 google.com.
So it will ping the google.com three times and it will complete.
Now once the command as part of the CMD completes, it does not really have anything else to do.
So after that it goes ahead and the container will exit as soon as the initial command finishes.
So let's also go ahead and look into it from demo perspective to ensure that our base concepts are clear
before we dig deep dive into Kubernetes offerings.
Now, just for simplicity, I'll just do a control C over here.
Now again, note that this is a demo based video.
In case if you have a Docker based system available, you can try.
In case if you do not have, that is also fine.
Our main aim is to understand Kubernetes.
However, Docker concepts are quite important and hence we are revising that as well.
So for today's demo I have a folder of docker file within.
Here I have a docker file that is available and here when I do a cat on the docker file, it is a very
simple file similar to the screenshot you have a from.
So our image will be built using this specific BusyBox.
And in the cmd we have ping c3 google.com.
Now when you try to manually run this command ping c3 google.com, what will happen?
It will ping the google.com three times and it will complete.
All right.
Similarly, when you go ahead and start the container by default it will run this specific command.
And after the command completes successfully it will exit similar to the manual approach that we have
tried.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and build a Docker image based on the Docker file.
Let's just call it as BusyBox ping.
And once this specific Docker image is built, if I do Docker images, this is the Docker image that
we have built.
Now you can go ahead and run a container based on this.
All right.
So I'll say docker run I'll say BusyBox ping.
All right.
Now when I press enter you see what is happening.
Ping is completed three times.
And this marks the completion of the container.
Now once this completes, the container will also not be in start state because the instructions specified
in CMD is no longer running.
So now when you do docker PS over here, you see there are no containers that are running.
And if you do a docker PS hyphen a, you see this is the container that was created and now it has also
exited.
You can also look into the logs to see what exactly the container has done.
And you will get that this is the command that commanded container ran.
Everything is good.
And now the container has exited.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the importance of the CMD instruction.
One of the benefit again here is that whenever you start a container, you do not need to necessarily
add a command based on which the container should start.
By default, there will be some entry point or cmd instruction, similar to what we saw in the nginx
image that when we start the nginx container, it automatically starts the nginx process.
We don't really have to manually start it.
Now we are going to take one more example, specifically when we have both Entrypoint and CMD as part
of the docker file.
This is important for us to understand before we look into Kubernetes.
Now the first point states that entry point is always executed when the container starts.
Now if you look into this Docker file this time the base image is ubuntu.
In the entry point we have a very simple command which is bin echo.
Now you also have a CMD instruction here.
However, note that if you provide a command when running a container, that command is appended as
arguments to the entry point, so this cmd can easily be overridden when you start a specific Docker
container.
Let's understand this with an example.
So similar Dockerfile as the previous slide and what it states.
If you run a docker run followed by image that was built using this docker file, what will happen in
the output?
You will have combination of both.
So first it will run bin echo and associated with this you will have arguments of hello world that will
be provided.
So in such case what will happen is let's say you are just starting a container without explicitly adding
any arguments.
For example docker run demo.
So what will happen in the output?
You will see hello world.
However, let's say you do not want to see Hello world.
You want to see how are you?
So now in the second case, if you say docker run demo, this part remains to be the same.
However, this time you are saying how are you?
So this part in the CMD hello World will not be taken into consideration.
And this part how are you is going to take into effect.
So this how are you is going to be appended with Entrypoint.
So the final command would be bin echo.
How are you.
And this is the reason why you are seeing how are you over here.
Let's also try this out from demo perspective so that this topic is clear.
Now for this specific demo I have one more Docker file that is available very similar to the PPT base
image.
So here you have a ubuntu which is used as a base image.
You have an entry point of bin echo.
As we learned that this is something that will always run.
And this part cmd can easily be overwritten whenever you are using a docker run.
So first let's go ahead and build this image.
Let's just call it as Ubuntu Custom and we'll build this image now once this image is built, you will
see that we have this ubuntu custom image that is available.
Now let's go ahead and run a container based on this image.
So I'll say docker run ubuntu custom.
So now if you see we got Hello world.
Now behind the scenes.
What is happening behind the scenes.
First when the container starts it is going to use this something like this.
And then it is going to supply it with Hello World.
And in the output you will see Hello World, very similar to this specific part.
Now as we were seeing that you can also override the CMD.
So when I say docker run ubuntu custom.
Now again note one thing that I wanted to show you is that even for this, the entry point and the CMD
instructions are completed at this stage.
So will the container continue to run.
And the answer is no.
So if I do a docker PS you see the container has completed whatever instructions that you have provided
and now it is in the exited state over here.
You see it is in the exited state because everything is completed.
What it will do running.
All right, let's clear the screen.
Now we'll say Docker run same ubuntu custom.
This time I'll say how are you?
And when I press enter the CMD command that we had supplied it will be overwritten.
And this how are you will be appended to the entry point.
So final command would be bin echo followed by how are you?
And in the output you will get.
How are you?
Great.
So I hope with this now your concept related to Entrypoint and cmd based on docker file.
And also docker image is crystal clear.
Now comes the important part of today's video, which is command and arguments that you can add as part
of Kubernetes pod.
So if you look into this specific manifest file this is associated with Pod.
So within here you can specify command.
You can specify arguments.
Now just by looking into both of these you can identify what this might be.
So you have similar example bin echo hello world.
And your guess is correct.
Which states that the command field that you add over here, it corresponds to the entry point that
we typically add in Docker file.
And the arguments field that you add it corresponds to the cmd that you typically add as part of the
Docker file.
Now one part to remember here is that the command argument that you add as part of Kubernetes, it will
override the default entry point in Docker file.
And the arguments that you add it overrides the default cmd.
For example, let's say that a specific container image is built based on this instruction.
Now, when you start that container, we know that it is going to use the bin echo.
It is going to use this now in Kubernetes.
If you just create a pod based on the image that is used with this instruction, by default it will
just run the hello world as the output and it will complete.
However, when you add the command in the pod, that command will override this.
All right.
And if you want to override this specific part, you will have to add the arguments in the Kubernetes
pod spec.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the commands and arguments.
What we are going to do we will conclude this video as of now.
And in the upcoming video, we are going to go ahead and have a detailed practical related to it so
that we can discuss things in more detail.
Otherwise, single video will become too long.
All right.
So with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Commands and Arguments ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now today is going to be a practical video associated with the learnings that we have gained in the
commands and arguments related topic.
Now, in order to define the command and arguments in Kubernetes, the overall command is very simple.
So let's say you specify kubectl run nginx image nginx.
So as we know that if you just run this specific command by default, whatever entry point and the CMD
instruction was used to build this nginx image, that will run as a default.
However, if you want, you can also specify the hyphen hyphen command, and you can add the command
and the appropriate arguments.
So let's go ahead and understand this with a practical example.
So what it states we are going ahead and we are creating a new pod based on the BusyBox image.
Now associated with this image we are going to specify certain commands and arguments.
So the overall format is something similar.
Hyphen hyphen command hyphen hyphen the main command and the appropriate create arguments.
And now when a pod is created based on this, what will happen?
It will run this specific command which is hello from kubectl run.
And then the status will be marked as completed.
Now in the earlier video also we saw that how once the container completes the command it exits.
Similarly, when a pod completes the associated command, it will go ahead and have the status of completed.
And if you look into the logs associated with Pod, it will look something similar to this.
Hello from kubectl run.
So that's an overview.
Let's go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing things in more detail.
So from my terminal let's go ahead and try to create a pod.
I'll say kubectl run.
Let's just call it as echo pod.
The image that we are going to use is BusyBox latest.
And now we are going to specify command.
The command is echo and I'll say hello world.
All right.
Now, when I press enter, it says that the pod is created.
However, as we know that this is a very short command, so pod will not be running.
So now when you do kubectl get pods, you will see ready is zero out of one.
This is fine.
Now when you do kubectl logs followed by echo pod, you see in the output we are seeing hello world.
So let's clear the screen and let's go ahead and delete the echo pod that we have created.
And once this is done let's go ahead and take one more example.
So I'll use the kubectl run command to create a new pod called as pink pod from the same BusyBox latest
image.
This time we are going to specify a command of say pink.
I'll say C, I'll say 30 and I'll say google.com.
All right.
Now we already know what exactly this will do.
So if you go ahead and do a kubectl get pods, we have a ping pod over here.
And if you look into the logs kubectl logs ping hyphen pod.
You see it is going to run ping 30 times.
Similarly if I do kubectl get logs.
So here you see the number of pings have increased further.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview this part makes better sense now.
Now similar to the CLI based command that we ran, you can also go ahead and add it as part of the manifest
file.
So you have command.
You have arguments in the command as we know it can override the entry point in case if it is there.
And arguments is also something that you can define.
Let's also go ahead and try it out.
So let's clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and also delete the ping pod.
And for today's video I have a simple pod dot YAML file that is available.
Let's open this folder with the VS code.
So we have a simple pod dot YAML that is available.
We are going to make use of this as a reference.
And we'll create one more file called as cmd hyphen args dot YAML.
And within.
Here, as we know that the command can be added over here and the arguments can be added over here.
In case if you have multiple containers, then for each container you can have a separate set of command
and arguments.
So in the command over here let's go ahead and specify ping.
And in the arguments you can go ahead and specify the arguments.
Let's say hyphen c comma.
Then we'll say 60 and then we'll say google.com.
Alright let's change the name to say ping container.
And the pod name over here will say new ping pod.
And also make sure that image you use the correct one.
I'll use the BusyBox latest image.
Alright.
Once this is done I'll save this.
And now, from the folder where the file is present, we'll run the kubectl apply with the cmd hyphen
args dot YAML file.
A pod is created when you run the kubectl get pods.
You see, our new ping pod is currently available and when you look into the kubectl logs new ping pod,
we are seeing this output.
All right.
Now one thing that I wanted to make it very clear.
For example, we are having a pod over here which is based on the nginx image.
Now does it need the commands and arguments?
And the answer is it depends.
Do you want to override the default entry point and the CMD instruction that were used in the Dockerfile
to build this nginx image?
If so, you can go ahead and add it.
If you do not really want that, because officially this image is available through nginx only.
So why do you really want to override the entry point and the cmd.
Related instructions so it is better not to.
However, in case if you are building, say, a custom application based on a base image like BusyBox
or a base image like ubuntu, and you want to perform certain operation, maybe say database backup
or downloading certain files or various custom logic you want to add as part of your container.
In that case, you can use the command and arguments to specify what exactly needs to be added so that
it runs when the container starts.
All right.
So that's a high level overview about the practical aspect of commands and arguments.
Again we are going to discuss this in more detail in the upcoming set of videos.
But before we do that, our base concept on how you can specify command and arguments, and also the
important concept of how command is related to overriding entry point arguments is related to overriding
the CMD instruction based on Dockerfile.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- More Clarity - Command and Arguments ---

Here you are.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about command and arguments in more detail.
Not only it will give you good knowledge, but it will also give you better clarity.
So with this, let's get started.
Now the first important part is related to how you can define command and arguments as part of a manifest
file.
When we discuss about that, there are two primary ways that you will generally see in documentation,
as well as many of the tutorials.
The first one is using an array, so it is something similar to a square brackets where you can go ahead
and add command and arguments.
This is something that we have been using.
However, you also have a different approach of multi-line YAML list for each new item.
So if you look into the first approach over here, so what you can do in the command, you have the
square brackets here and in the square brackets you can go ahead and add whatever command that you want
the container to run.
So this is easy to understand.
The second approach of multi-line YAML list is also something that you might see.
So in this, what you do in the command, you don't add a square brackets.
Here you have a hyphen followed by exact command that you want to run.
Bin sh is here, then C is here.
Then echo Hello world is here.
So both of these approaches will work perfectly well.
Now, just for ease of use, I have also added a comparison table between the array notation and the
multi-line YAML list.
Now when you compare both of them in terms of readability.
So the array notation based approach is compact but harder to read for longer commands.
However, when you use a multi-line list, it is more human readable for long commands.
For example, if you see over here, this is a relatively shorter command.
What happens if the command and the appropriate arguments are much more longer?
Then this is something that might not really look good.
It will be difficult to read things.
So in such cases, you can also go ahead and use the list based approach, because this is much more
simpler to read the second pointer that I wanted to clarify is that the separation of command and arguments
in Kubernetes is a design choice that provides flexibility and clarity.
So it is not compulsory that you have to divide your entire command into command and arguments.
Even if you add it completely in command, it will work.
However, note that generally it is recommended that you separate it by command and arguments for better
clarity.
So let's do one thing before we proceed further.
Let's go ahead and try this out so that our concept is much more clear.
Now let's do one thing in case if you have any pods running, you can go ahead and delete all of the
pods.
And for today's video we are going to use this specific file as a base.
I will also commit it in GitHub.
Now what does this file does?
It is based on a BusyBox image.
You have a command of ping.
You have arguments over here.
So let's go ahead and create one more file.
I'll say cmd clarity dot YAML.
All right.
And I'll add the contents of this file over here.
Now, one thing that needs to be clear is that this specific arguments is not compulsory.
All right.
You can in fact add it as part of the command.
Also this will also work.
So in fact let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll save this.
Now we'll do a kubectl apply on the new file of command.
In fact the name was cmd clarity dot YAML.
At this stage we are getting a parsing error.
Why you are getting a parsing error?
Because the comma is missing over here.
We'll save this again.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and run the apply again.
So this time you see a new pod is created.
This is good.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods you have a pod running.
When you do a cube CTL logs on this specific pod.
You see the ping operation is working fine.
The second part that I wanted to clarify is related to this approach on how you can specify the command.
So let's also go ahead and do that.
I'll again delete the pod of new ping pod that was created.
And this time what we are going to do.
Instead of adding a command in this square brackets, we are going to go ahead and use the second approach.
So in the second approach note that this comma is not really required.
All right.
All right so let's save this.
Since the pod has been deleted we'll go ahead and we'll recreate the pod based on the updated file.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods again the pod is running.
If you do a kubectl logs on the new ping pod over here, you see the ping is working again.
Great.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you is that let's say that you create a specific pod, let's
say cube CTL run.
I'll say custom pod based on the image of BusyBox latest.
And now you specify command, let's say echo hello world.
Now we are not going to create the pod as of now.
What we want we want to generate the manifest file.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So I'll say dry run equals to client with output of YAML.
And basically we want to see on how exactly it creates the appropriate manifest.
Now if you see in this manifest the second approach of using a list is used.
So you have echo, you have hello world and so on.
The square brackets are not used, but square brackets are also perfectly all right.
And generally in the Kubernetes documentation you will see that square brackets are used quite extensively.
Now before we conclude one point that I wanted to share, as we have discussed, and we have also seen
that everything can be added as part of the command itself.
It is not necessary that you divide this entire command into command and arguments.
So the general recommendation is that command is intended to specify the entry point or the main executable
that will run in the container, and arguments is meant to define the arguments that are passed to this
specific command.
So when you keep both of them separate, the intent of configuration becomes much more clear.
Why?
Because it can happen that the manifest file that is being used, you are not only going to be using
them.
The team members that are part of the organization and organization can be complex.
There can be thousands or tens of thousands of pod manifest that might be available.
So when you are reading the pod manifest written by a different team member, when things are followed
based on general recommendation, it is easier for everyone to see that.
All right, this is the main command.
These are the arguments I can go ahead and change the arguments for the main command and the application
will still run.
So this is the reason why it is generally recommended to go ahead and follow the good practice, even
if you do not follow it in your test environment, that is fine, but this is something that you have
to keep a note of.
Now, before we conclude, one point that you have to keep a note is that if a container image defines
a default entry point, something similar to a ingenix image, we saw that there is a default entry
point and a CMD instruction.
So in such cases, when Kubernetes uses that image to build a pod, it will use the entry point in the
CMD instruction to start the appropriate process.
So this is the default.
If you want to override it, you can go ahead and explicitly add the command argument as part of the
manifest file.
Otherwise it is not required.
Again, it depends upon image to image and the overall requirements.
So that's a very high level overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- CLI Documentation of Kubernetes Resources ---

Everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about how you can explore the CLI documentation for Kubernetes
resources.
As of now, we have been referencing to the Kubernetes API reference documentation.
If you want to see what are the fields that you can add as part of a manifest file for a specific resource,
or even inside a field, what are the other options that you have and the associated description?
Now this is one approach.
For example, currently I am in the API reference documentation.
So let's say that you want to create a new pod.
Or maybe instead of creating a new pod, you have a pod manifest and you want to understand what a specific
field is all about.
You want to get the description associated with that field.
So in such cases, what you might do you can go to pods.
Now within your in the pod v1 core you have the core fields over here like API version kind, metadata
spec, etc..
Now inside the spec you have various fields, right?
You see, there are so many fields available and associated with the field.
You have the necessary description.
Now, in order to get all of this information, you have to go to the appropriate documentation is the
first approach.
The second approach that is available is the CLI documentation.
Now you can make use of the kubectl explained command to describe the field associated with the supported
API resource.
For example, here you see kubectl explain pods.
So here it is clearly stating that the kind that you need to use is pod.
The version is version one.
And then you have fields inside field you have API version kind metadata spec, very similar to the
API reference documentation that we were looking into.
So let's also go ahead and explore this now from the CLI.
Let's say you want to fetch information related to Pod.
So you can run kubectl explain followed by pod.
So now you get all of the necessary information related to the pod which are the important fields like
API, version, kind, etc..
Now let's say that I want to understand what exactly goes more into the spec section.
So I can say kubectl explain pod which is the main part over here dot spec.
So now inside spec.
What are the things that goes?
You have all of the information about the fields along with the necessary set of description.
Now inside Podspec also you see for some of them you can go much more detail.
For example, in spec you have containers.
So if you want to see what are the fields that you can add as part of containers, you can say podspec
dot containers.
And now all of the details that you see are associated with the one that you add in containers.
For example, the name of the container, the image of the container is also something that we have
been using.
You see the image of the container and all of the other details that you can add.
All right.
So at a high level overview you should keep a note of both of the approaches of the API as well as the
CLI related documentation.
Now one benefit of CLI documentation here when compared with the API for example.
So in Google when you type kubectl API reference docs, this is one of the page that appears.
One of the issue is that many a times you will see older pages that would be appearing.
So for example, let's open this Now for this specific page.
You see the version is 1.26, which is the Kubernetes version 1.26.
Now you can manually go ahead and change it to say 1.32, and you will get a newer set of documentation
based on this specific API version.
So through Google, it can happen that you are getting an older set of documentation, and older documentation
might not have the latest changes that might be present for a specific object.
However, when you run the cube CTL related command, whatever version that you have available based
on that version only all of the documentation in CLI will be presented to you.
So it is not that you will get some newer set of documentation that is not supported for the current
cube CTL version that you are using, and in a similar way, it is again, not that you will get a very
old set of documentation that might not work with the newer cube CTL version that is currently being
used in your workstation.
So this way cube CTL explain also proves to be quite useful.
All right, so at an overview you should keep a note of both of these approaches.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Revising DockerFile - EXPOSE Instruction ---

Hey, Ron.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video will be discussing about the expose instruction in Docker file.
Now the expose instruction, it informs Docker that a container listens on a specified network port
at a runtime.
So let's say that you have a Docker image and the service or the application within that Docker image
is listening on port number 5000.
So how will a individual who is running the Docker container know that a service is listening on Port
5000 because the service can listen on 8000, 9000 or any ephemeral port.
So the expose instruction precisely informs on that aspect.
Now, as we are discussing, the primary aim of expose instruction is not actually to publish the port,
but to inform on which port a specific application or a specific service is running.
So if you want to actually publish a port at a Docker level, then you will have to use the hyphen P
option.
So the third point, as it states that this expose instruction, it functions as type of a documentation
between the person who builds the image and the person who runs the container about which port are intended
to be published.
Now, generally what happens is that there are hundreds of images within the Docker hub.
Now a specific image as we are discussing it, can listen the service or the application inside that
container can listen on any ephemeral port.
So how will a person who is running that container know on which port that application is listening
to?
So anyone who builds their own image, they inform with the help of expose instruction that a specific
service or the application within the container image is going to listen on a specific port.
So let's better understand this with a use case diagram here where you have a service container on the
right hand side and when you perform a curl on the domain followed by the port, then this service container
basically returns a data block.
Now, you don't really know on which port this service container is listening to, so it might be listening
to 5000.
It might be listening to 5001, 5002, etcetera.
So unless and until, you know on which port this service container is listening to, it becomes difficult
to publish that port.
So that is where the expose instruction comes into the picture.
So when you look into the Docker file, you have apt get install service.
So this is a service which listens on a specific port and then you have a expose instruction with 9324.
So now what will happen is the image which gets built from this Docker file, from the image, a person
who is going to run it can identify that this specific service is going to listen on 9324 and he can
publish the port accordingly.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into practical and understand more on what this means.
Now I'm in my Linux server.
Let's go ahead and run a container, let's call it as Nginx and we'll launch it from the Nginx image.
All right.
Now when you do a Docker, PS, this is the container.
Now within this port section over here, you will see it is showing 80 TCP.
So that basically means that this enginex daemon which is running inside this container, it is listening
on the port of 80 at a TCP level.
Now remember that this information here does not come from the container by itself.
So let's say this Nginx can run even on port 9000.
So that does not really mean that this port will be updated accordingly.
In fact, this information is coming from the expose instruction which the image creator had added within
the Docker file.
So when you do a Docker inspect on this Nginx container, if you go a bit up here, you'll see within
the exposed port you have 80 slash TCP.
So this is the way in which the image creator has informed that the service which is going to run within
the container is going to listen on Port 80 TCP and anyone who wants to run this container can go ahead
and publish that port.
So something like you can do a Docker run, let's call it as Nginx to you can publish the port, something
similar to this.
And let's specify the nginx image.
Oops, we made a small typo.
Let's specify hyphen hyphen name.
All right, so now when you do a Docker, PS now what you will see is that any traffic which is coming
on the host port of 80 will automatically be forwarded to the container port of 80.
So in this case when we made use of hyphen P So here we are saying that any request which comes to the
host port, the port of this server on 80 will be forwarded to the port 80 of the Nginx container.
So from this instruction, from this expose instruction, it was easy to find this second part.
However, there can be a lot of applications which might listen on port 5000.
So then this part will change accordingly as well.
So let's look into that as well.
Now I have a custom Docker file over here and if you see this Docker file, this is basically based
on Nginx.
And this dockerfile is basically having a expose instruction on 9080.
So that basically means that this engine, based on which this image is being created, this Nginx,
is going to listen on port 9080.
So let's go ahead and create a container based on this.
So let's quickly do a docker images.
I'll grep for my lab.
So this is the specific image in which the Nginx is listening on a different port.
So let's go ahead and create a container, let's call it as custom Nginx and we'll launch it from our
custom nginx image.
Now when you do a Docker PS over here, so this is the container and within the container now you see
it says that the ports which are exposed, it is 80 and 9080.
So these are basically coming from the expose instruction.
So when you do a Docker inspect custom Nginx, if you go a bit up, you see that there are two expose
port over here.
One is 80 and second is 9080.
Now in case, if you're wondering where does the eight come from, it basically comes from the image
from which we are building this.
Now.
On top of that, we are also exposing one more port, which is 9080.
Now, the question that many times it comes is what happens if you do not expose a port?
Now, as we were discussing, if you do not expose a port, then it will be a little difficult for the
person who is going to run your application container to identify on which port your application is
actually running.
So let's also look into that scenario.
So now I have one more Docker file.
Let me quickly show you this.
And within this Docker file we are again, we are going to run Nginx, but this time we are not going
to have a expose instruction at all.
So let's look into how that would look like.
So let's go ahead and run one more container, let's call it as CP Labs Nginx and we'll run it from
the Nginx custom image.
All right.
Now when you do a Docker PS over here, you will see that this is the Nginx custom container.
Now within there is nothing within this port.
So now if this engine is running on an ephemeral port, let's say port number 5000.
So for the person who is pulling this image, it is very difficult to know on which port the service
within this container is running.
All right.
So if the image creator had mentioned within the expose instruction that this specific container is
running on Port 5000, then it becomes easier to do the mapping part.
All right.
So I hope you understood the importance of expose instruction As we were discussing, Expose instruction
is primarily used for the documenting part so that the person who is running the image knows on which
port a application is running so that he can publish it accordingly.
Great.
So in today's video, we look into the expose instruction in good amount of detail so that we understand
the purpose of it.
Now, before we conclude, let me quickly show you.
So this is basically the Nginx image.
And when you open up the Docker file associated with this image, you will see that if you go a bit
down, generally you see it says expose 80.
And this is the reason why when we had pulled the Nginx image within the port, the 80 had come so that
it is easier for a person who is running the container to know on which port this is running.
So that's the overview about expose instruction.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Exposing Ports for PODS ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we discussed at an overview about the expose instruction within the Docker
file and how it serves as a documentation so that anyone who is running a container knows on which port
a specific application is running in an image.
Now, similar to the expose instruction, we can also expose a specific port at a Kubernetes level.
Now, if you look into the documentation here, you have a field called as ports, and within here you
have a container port, 80, 80.
So what this basically does is that it exposes a port of 80, 80 in a similar way based on which the
expose instruction works in a Docker file.
Now, understanding this is important because many times within the exams the question would mention
that create a pod from an nginx image and expose port 8080.
So in such case, if a question says that expose the port 8080, then you will need to specify this
within the pod manifest file.
This is important for us to understand.
So we were discussing about way of creating a simple pod.
Now, along with that, we have added one more field called as ports.
And within the port we have container port.
So let's look into what exactly this does.
So I'll do a kubectl apply pod hyphen expose hyphen port dot yaml.
All right, so this has gone ahead and created a pod for us.
So when you do a kubectl get pods you will see that you have a nginx pod.
And if you quickly do a kubectl describe pod on your nginx pod and let's go a bit up and here within
the port you will see that it is listening on port 8080.
So let's say that you have a pod which is running and within that pod there is a application which is
connected and running on a specific ephemeral port, let's say 30,005.
So if you want to know on which port the application inside the pod is running, then this specific
field proves to be very important.
Now, along with that, when you make use of the kubectl, explain command that we were learning.
So let's try this out.
So let's do a kubectl explain pod dot spec.
So you have pod dot spec.
Within the spec you have a containers field and within the containers you have the port field.
So first let's look into the containers field over here and one of the field that you will see will
be the port.
So currently you see you have a port.
And let's look into the description because this is very important to understand that it basically lists
the ports that are exposed from the container.
And the second point is very important, which says that exposing a port here gives the system additional
information about the network connection a container uses.
But it is primarily informational, not specifying a port here does not prevent that port from being
exposed.
Now, similar to the expose instruction within the Docker file that we were discussing, similar to
that, this port is primarily for the informational purpose only.
So even if you do not specify it, it will not prevent anything from being exposed.
All right.
So this is very similar to the expose instruction and this is the reason why we had the video associated
with the expose instruction of Docker file added to the course, which was borrowed from a Docker certified
associate video course.
Now, if you want to see what is the fields that you can add within the ports, you can just specify
the ports over here.
And currently these are the fields that you can add.
The one that we had added here was the container port, which is basically the port that will be used
by the application.
So that's the overview about exposing a port at a Kubernetes level.
Now again, as we were discussing, there can be an exam question which specifies that you have to expose
a specific port of the container.
In such cases you will have to add these fields within your pod spec.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward.
To see you in the next video.

--- Introduction to Labels and Selectors ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about labels and selectors.
Now, labels are basically a key value pair that you attach to a Kubernetes objects such as pods.
So let's understand this with a simple example where you have two distinct set of environments here.
The first environment consists of a server, a database and a load balancer.
And in a similar way, a second set of environment consists of a load balancer, a server and a database.
Now if someone tells you that, Hey, can you go ahead and stop all the resources associated with a
dev environment.
Now if you look from here, it is very difficult to see which server or which database belongs to a
dev environment.
The reason why it is difficult to know is because there are no appropriate labels which are associated
with all of these resources.
Now, in a second example here, what we have done is we have added label to each and every resource
here.
So the first server has a label where the key here is name and the value is CP Labs Gateway, and it
also has a second label where the environment is production.
Now in a similar way, the second resource has a label where name is Cablelabs hyphen DB and the environment
is production.
Similarly, if you look into the second environment here, the name is CP Hyphen DB and the environment
is Dev.
Now from this label which is associated with a individual resource, you will be able to quickly find
out that hey, the lower three resources which are created, they belong to the dev environment and
now I can go ahead and stop all of these resources right away.
Now in order for you to know about this, having a label associated with this resource is very important.
So let me quickly give you an example in terms of perspective so it becomes easier for us to understand.
So I'm in my console here, and here you will see that there are three servers which are currently running.
Now let's say that someone tells you go ahead and stop a dev server.
Now from here it is very difficult for you to know which among these three servers is a dev server.
The reason why it is difficult for us to know is because there are no appropriate labels which are associated
with these three servers.
And this is the reason why attaching a label is very important.
Now here, do remember that depending upon the technology that you use, the name label will change.
So AWS might call it as tag.
Now in the Kubernetes environment, you will call it as label and so on.
So although the naming convention is different, but the overall concepts remains the same.
So if you have worked with AWS, labels are very similar to tags so that it becomes easier for you to
grasp.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and add a tag.
What I'll do, I'll add two tags.
Now if you would look into this diagram, there were two labels which were attached.
One was associated with the name and second was associated with the environment.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So here I'll call name as CP Labs hyphen production and we'll add one more tag or one more label called
as Env.
And the env here is production.
I'll go ahead and save this.
Now in a similar way for the second server, let's go ahead and add one more tag, I'll call it as name
and let's call it as payment gateway.
And for this I'll add a tag.
The tag is dev.
All right, Now if you go ahead and refresh it, the first server again, you are not able to identify
from here, but if you look into the tags here, you will see that there is a tag which is associated
with the server where the name is CP Labs hyphen production and the Env is production.
So if you click on any of the server, it is very easy for you to see that this server belongs to dev
environment or the first server belongs to a production environment.
So this is what labels are now.
Definitely you can make it much more easier so that within a year it can appear.
So let me give you one more example.
So if I add a tag with a capital name and let's call it as App Gateway, and if I click on Save, you
see it appears within the console itself.
So if you do it this way, this way also it works well because ultimately the thing that you see over
here is nothing but the value associated with the key.
So if you look into the first slide, labels are nothing but a key value pairs.
So within here also you have a key value pair where the key is name and the value is app gateway.
And similar to that, within the second slide you'll see you have key value pair.
So the key is name, the value is key labs hyphen, gateway and so on.
So this is what labels are.
Now the next important part is selectors.
Now selectors basically allows us to filter objects based on labels.
So generally in Kubernetes, whenever you are using labels, you will be using selectors as well in
a lot of occurrences.
So let's take an example.
So the first example is show me all the objects which has label where inv is equal to prod.
So now what will happen is you will see all the resources here which has the environment as production.
So this is one simple use case.
Now the second use case here is show me all the objects where environment is equal to dev.
So now it will show you all the resources where the environment is dev.
So this is the importance of selectors.
So through selectors you can look or you can filter the resources based on labels.
So again, let's quickly understand this with the terminology because here we are working with UI,
so it becomes much more easier.
So let's take a first example where we were discussing show me all the objects, where the label is
production.
So in AWS you can easily do that with the filter here.
So you can consider this filter as a selector.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go a bit up here and within the tag keys here you have a key of env.
So I'll click on Env and I'll say production.
So now what will happen is it will only show you all the resources which belongs to the production environment
or in short all the resources which has a tag where env is production.
So this is one way.
Now you can also modify it to show you all the resource which belongs to dev environment.
So again, it will show you only one resource which belongs to the dev environment.
So this is what selectors are now through selectors irrespective of how many instance you have.
So in current environment we have three instances.
However, in production there can be hundreds or even thousands of instances.
So through the selector you will be able to select or you will be able to view the right resources based
on the labels which are associated with them.
Now, from the Kubernetes perspective, there can be multiple objects which can be part of a Kubernetes
cluster.
Now some of the objects are pods.
You have services, secrets, namespaces, you have deployments, and so many of them.
So now what you can do is you can attach a label to the objects, which are part of the Kubernetes cluster.
Now, in the example, we had attached a label or a tag associated with the EC2 instance.
Now you can even attach a label to a load balancer, a RDS instance and so on.
Similar to that, even in Kubernetes you have various objects like pods, services, secrets, and you
can attach labels to all of these objects.
So let's understand the selector part again.
So in Kubernetes perspective, as we were discussing, there can be multiple objects.
So in this diagram we have a total of six pods which are currently running now by the name of this pod.
As we were discussing, it is difficult to identify what this pod does, whether it belongs to dev environment,
whether it belongs to prod environment and so on.
So the next thing that you do is you assign a label to your Kubernetes object.
So to every pod here you assign a label where the envy is the key and dev or prod is the associated
value.
So from the label now you can easily identify that the first pod belongs to dev, the second pod belongs
to prod and so on.
So coming back to the selector, let's say that you want to have a selector where you want to list all
the pods from dev environment.
So in order to have this use case you will have to make use of selector.
So what you do, you write a selector.
So what selector will do?
Selector will remove all the pods which does not have envy is equal to dev.
So now you will only be able to see the pods which has this specific environment of dev.
Now, in a similar way, let's say now you want to list all the pods from the production environment.
So now what selector will do?
Selector will look into the labels which are associated with the objects and all the objects which do
not have the environment of prod.
Will be removed from the list.
So if you see now select, I will go ahead and remove all the objects which has the envy of dev or others
which are not prod.
So that's what selectors are.
So I hope you understood at a high level overview about the labels and selectors.
Now before we conclude, let me give you a demo for Kubernetes so that this concept can be understood
in a better way.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a kubectl get pods here.
Now you see that there are two pods which are running now, these two pods from the name itself.
It becomes difficult to understand which of these pods belongs to dev or which of these pods belongs
to production.
So now what you can do, you can filter it out.
So let's say kubectl get pods and I'll specify by label where n is equal to dev.
And now you see it will only show you the pod which belongs to the development environment, or in short,
the pod, which has a label where the key is env and the value is death.
In a similar way you can even do env is equal to prod.
And now you see you see one more pod which has the environment is equal to production.
So in this way you can select the appropriate pods depending upon the use cases.
So let's do one thing, let's do a cube, Ctl describe Pod and before that let's do a cube.
Ctl get pods yet again and let's do a cube.
Ctl Describe Pod and I'll specify the name of one of the pods here.
Now, within the details which have been presented, if you look here, one of the details here is the
label.
Now one of the label here is env is equal to dev.
So this is the label which is associated with this pod.
This is very similar here where you have a pod and you have a label where N is equal to dev.
So that is what labels are.
And through selectors you will be able to filter the Kubernetes objects depending on the labels which
are associated with them.
Now, attaching a label to your Kubernetes objects is very important.
I'll show you one real world use case.
So in one of the organizations where I had recently joined what they used to do, they never had any
of the tags or any of the labels which are associated with the servers there.
So it was very difficult to find which server belonged to which environment.
And in one of the email thread, one of the developer requested the team member to go ahead and delete
the development EC2 instance and what the team member did.
He deleted the EC2 instance which belonged to the staging environment and all of the QA team came running
at the DevOps team asking why did they delete the staging environment?
And this was one of the reason, the reason why this mistake happened was because there was no label
which was associated with the resources in AWS.
And this is the reason why having labels is extremely important not only for the Kubernetes objects,
but also for the non Kubernetes environments like AWS.
So that's the high level overview about labels and selectors.
I hope you understood the concepts of label and selectors with respect to Kubernetes objects.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Implementing Labels and Selectors ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the basics of labels and selectors and how selectors
can be used to go ahead and search for the resources based on the labels that are attached to them.
So today is going to be a practical video where we'll go ahead and look into how we can attach a set
of labels to a specific Kubernetes objects.
And we'll also be looking into how we can go ahead and use the selectors to filter out the objects here.
So with this base set, let's go ahead and get started.
Now, in today's video, we'll go ahead and create three parts.
Let's quickly do a cube so it'll run, I call it as pod one and we'll set the image as engineers.
Similarly, let's also go ahead and create pod number two.
And we'll also create a pod number three.
That's great.
Now, if you do a cube, see tailgate pods over here.
We should see that there are three pods running.
Now, if you want to see what are the labels that are associated with pods, you can do a cube.
It'll get pods.
Come on with the option of show labels.
Now, at this stage, you'll see that each pod has a label of run is equal to pod name.
So you have run is equal to pod one, run is equal to pod two and run is equal to pod three.
So based on this label, it is difficult to identify the functionality of a specific pod.
So generally in production environment, it is recommended to give a label through which we can quickly
identify what the pod is supposed to do, or at least in which environment the pod is running.
So now what you can do in order to label a pod, you can do a cube, a label command, we'll add a pod.
And what is the name of the pod that we want to label?
I'll say we want to label pod name Pod one.
And what is the label we want to attach?
I'll say environment is equal to death.
So the pod one is label.
Similarly for port two, I'll say environment is equal to stage.
And for the pod three, we'll say environment is equal to prod.
Now if we do a cube, so it'll get pods on show labels.
You see, we have the envy label attached to all of these pods.
Great.
So this is the first step where we go ahead and associate a label with a specific object.
Now, the second important part is to make use of selectors, to go ahead and search for the objects
based on a specific label.
So let's quickly use a selector.
So I'll do a cube, so it'll get pods.
Now, by default, if we run this command, it will go ahead and show all the pods.
This is something that we do not want, what we want.
We want to look for pods that are based on an environment of dev.
So we'll add a selector.
So I'll say hyphen L followed by the label say envy is equal to dev.
So this time you see it only showed us the pod one over here.
Similarly, if I say env is equal to prod this time it has shown as the pod number three.
So this is what the selectors allows us to do.
Along with that you can also do various interesting things.
Let me quickly show you.
So you can also say envy, not equal to dev.
So now what this will do all the ports that does not have this specific envy of dev, it will go ahead
and list it.
So if I press enter, we should see in total of two pods over here.
Now let's clear the screen.
Now, if you do a cube CTA label, hyphen, hyphen help, you will basically get the examples related
to various functionality.
For example, we have already seen on how we can add a new label using the cube Ctrl label port command
followed by the name of the port, followed by the key value pair that will be added as part of the
label.
Along with that, let's say if you want to remove the label, then you can say Cube Ctrl label ports
followed by the name of the port, followed by the name of the key, which is Bar Area.
Now let me quickly show you.
So let's quickly do a cube.
So it'll get ports which show labels.
Alright, so let's go ahead and remove this dev label that is associated with Pod one.
So I'll take you to a label port followed by the name of the port, followed by the label key, which
is EMV.
And I'll specify a hyphen over here.
All right.
Now, if you'll quickly do a show labels, you'll see a label associated with EMV of death is now removed
from Port One.
Now, along with this sense in production environments, we will be using the YAML based file, will
not be extensively using the cube.
It'll run command to create the ports.
So it is also important for us to know in Yemen where exactly a label can be attached.
So when you do a cube, it'll run engine x followed by the image of engine x will quickly do a dry run
is equal to client with the output of yaml.
This is something that we have already seen earlier.
Now if you'll see there is a label of run is equal to engine x.
So this label is part of the metadata.
Always remember this that whenever you want to create a label for a port through YAML, the label goes
inside the metadata field along with the name of the port.
Now you can also associate multiple labels in case if you want to.
In fact, let's quickly look into it.
We'll run the same command and we'll store it to label hyphen port YAML and within the file you have
the labels that is attached.
Along with that, let's say you want to add one more label again, let's say N and we'll say def.
We'll save the change from the ClA.
Let's do a cube so it'll apply on the label hyphen port yaml.
So the port is created.
Let's quickly do a cubes.
It'll get ports which show labels.
We should see that we have an engine export and this engine export has two labels that are associated
with it.
Now along with that, you can also do a few interesting things.
Let's quickly look into it.
In fact, you can do a cube, ctrl label, hyphen, hyphen health.
And within here one of the interesting things that you can do is you can also update all the ports in
a specific namespace.
So the overall command is very simple cube, ctrl, label ports, you specify hyphen, hyphen, all,
and then you specify the name of the label that you want to associate with.
Let's quickly try it out.
So let's first quickly do Cube.
It'll show labels.
So this is our initial reference.
Now let's do a cube.
So it'll label ports, hyphen, hyphen, all, and let's say status is equal to running.
All right, so all the four ports have been labeled here.
If you do a cube, it'll get ports once more.
You will see all of these ports have a status of running over here.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of labels and selectors.
Now do note that in Kubernetes you will extensively be using labels and selectors.
So it is very important that you understand these concepts quite thoroughly.
Now, generally in Kubernetes will be using labels and selectors quite extensively in terms of YAML
file.
So whenever we create replica set deployments, that is where the labels and selectors are used very
extensively.
Grid And one last thing before we conclude the video, you can go ahead and delete all the ports that
we have created with Cube, Ctrl, delete, ports, hyphen, hyphen, all.
So this way we'll have a clean environment for next video.

--- Overview of ReplicaSets - NEW ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about replica set.
So let us go ahead and first understand the challenge that organizations use to face post, which will
be discussing on how replica set can solve them.
So a simple use case which states that there is a requirement to run three pods based on nginx image
all the time.
Now if you see this requirement, what you will do, you will go ahead and you will have certain set
of kubectl run commands, maybe directly.
Or you might create a manifest file for each pod that you want to create.
And then you will use the set of commands to go ahead and create three set of pods based on the Kubernetes
cluster.
Now, when we compare it with the requirement, the first part of the requirement has been completed
which states run three pods based on the nginx image.
But the second part, which is all the time, is not ensured when you go through this manual approach.
For example, when we discuss about one of the primary issues here, in case if a pod fails now, it
can happen that the pod has failed directly, or the node based on which the pod has been running has
crashed.
In such cases, the Kubernetes will not automatically recreate the pod.
So, for example, let's say the nginx pod one has stopped working.
Nginx pod two has stopped working.
So in such case, Kubernetes will not automatically recreate the pod.
Now it can happen that the entire worker node, which hosts all of the three pods, has stopped working
altogether.
Again, in such case, Kubernetes will not recreate those pods.
So whenever you have situations where there are node failures, etc., then you will have to manually
detect those failures and recreate the pod in the appropriate working node.
This is the major issue that you will face.
The second issue that you will typically face specifically in the longer term is related to scalability.
So today the requirement is related to three pods.
But what happens is after one week, the requirement is to run 20 pods based on the nginx image.
Are you going to go ahead and copy paste the command of kubectl run 20 times.
Or are you going to go ahead and have multiple set of manifest file and do a kubectl apply for each
of the manifest file?
The answer is yes, you can do that, but it is time consuming.
So in order to implement a requirement that we discuss as part of today's video and overcoming the challenges
as well, you have a specific resource of replica set.
Now, the main aim of the replica set is to maintain a stable set of pods that would be running at a
given amount of time.
For example, same requirement where you want to go ahead and run three pods of nginx image all of the
time.
Now, instead of directly going ahead and creating Pod manually, you inform this requirement to the
replica set.
You tell replica set that I need three pods of nginx image and replica set will take care of creation
and maintenance of the pod.
So if tomorrow if pod one has crashed and it is not running, replica set will go ahead and create one
more port to ensure that three ports run all of the time.
This is a very big advantage of this specific object.
So with this base set, let's go ahead and look into it from a demo perspective.
And we'll have a separate video associated with the practicals.
Now for today's video I already have a replica set that is created.
So if I do kubectl get replica set, you see we have a replica set called as Web server hyphen replica
set and desired is basically a way of informing replica set that I need a total of three pods running
all of the time.
The current is basically how many pods are running currently as part of the environment.
It is three, so ideally in replica set the desired and current should match.
Now if I do kubectl get pods, you see I have three pods that are running based on this specific replica
set.
Now as we were discussing that it is now, the replica sets responsibility to ensure that three pods
run all of the time if one of the pod crashes or the node on which the pod is running crashes, then
replica set has the appropriate logic to recreate the pod in different node.
So just for simplicity, let's go ahead and manually delete one of the pods.
All right I'll delete this specific pod.
All right.
Now when you do kubectl get pods again immediately you see a new pod got recreated by the replica set.
So you see the age of the pod is just four seconds.
It is so fast.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood on how replica set can take care of this manual.
Part of monitoring and recovering from pod failures.
The second part that we were discussing is related to manual scaling of pods.
So for example, let's say currently three pods are enough, but tomorrow I need ten pods.
Now, when it comes to replica set, we don't really have to manually create the pods.
We can inform the replica set now.
Again, this command will be discussing at a later stage so we can manually inform the replica set that
I need a total of, say, ten parts, and you just define which replica set you are targeting.
In our case, it is web server replica set.
All right.
Now again, we will be discussing this at a later stage in the practical video.
But at this stage you see it stays.
Web server replica set has scaled.
Now when we look into the replica set over here, you see the desired is ten, the current is ten.
Now when you do kubectl get pods over here, you have ten pods running based on the appropriate image.
Now tomorrow let's say the promotion has completed and you no longer require all of the ten pods.
You want to go back to three pods.
So again you can simply specify that I need three pods that are running and that's about it.
When you do kubectl get pods, you see the seven extra pods have been removed and the three older pods
are currently running.
All right.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the importance of replica set in Kubernetes.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- ReplicaSet - Practical ---

Everyone and welcome back.
So this is going to be the practical video associated with replica set, where we are going to go ahead
and look into how you can create replica set as well as the scalability and other important factors.
So with this, let's get started.
Now in Google, when you type replica set Kubernetes, you will get the link to the official Kubernetes
documentation related to replica set.
I will also be attaching this as part of GitHub for you to reference.
Now before we explore the documentation related to replica set, one important point to note is that
as of now, there is no direct way in which you can create replica set through kubectl command.
For example, how we use kubectl run command to create a new pod.
Similarly, there is no direct command to create a replica set.
You will have to go through a manifest file based approach.
And this is the reason why when you look into the documentation of replica set, there is a manifest
file based example that has been provided to you and based on this you can modify it and create a replica
set accordingly.
So let's do one thing.
Let's copy whatever content that are available and within our Copy Labs K8's folder.
I'll open this with VS code.
And just for simplicity, I'll create a new file called as replica set dot YAML.
I'll go ahead and I'll paste the contents.
Now one thing that needs to be noted is that not everything that is defined as part of this file is
required.
For example, if you will see that the kind is replica set, this is fine.
This is metadata.
So this is basically the name of the replica set.
In this case it is front end.
Now there are also labels that are associated with replica set over here.
This set of labels that you see under metadata.
This is something that is not required in case if you would like you can go ahead and remove.
All right.
We are just trying to trim down the overall example so that we can focus on the important areas here.
Now the next important part.
This is something that we understand.
So just for example you can just say front end hyphen replica set.
All right.
So it becomes much more clear.
Then you have the spec section.
Inside the spec section you have the replicas.
So since you have mentioned three total of three pods will be created as part of this replica set.
Now the next important part here is the selector and the labels.
The label and selectors are very important.
We will be discussing about the selector part in just a moment.
Before that we'll look into the template section.
So this part that you see in the template section is nothing but the one that you typically add as part
of Pod.
Now for example, if you will explore the API documentation associated with replica set, let's open
replica set.
Now in the replica set, if you will see inside the spec over here, Which is this specific spec, you
have the appropriate hyperlink.
So if I open this now inside the replica set spec you have this replicas selector and template.
Now replicas we understood selector will understand.
And template is something that we are targeting now.
Now inside this template which is this specific part is nothing but the pod template spec.
So if I open this this is the pod template spec.
So the actual spec that you add while creating a pod manifest file, this is the details that you are
going to add as part of this.
So now things will become much more easier to understand.
So when you create a pod apart from API version and kind, what is the next thing that you add?
You add metadata.
For example this is a pod dot YAML.
Now let's remove this part.
All right.
So now what is present.
You have the metadata.
And same thing that you see over here.
You have a metadata, then you have labels, and then you have the spec section which is this one.
Inside spec you have containers.
Inside container you have name and image.
Similarly inside spec you have containers.
Inside containers you have name and image.
Now as we know, ultimately replica set will go ahead and create certain set of pods based on the replicas
that you define over here.
So this is the reason why you have pod spec.
Now comes the important part of labels and selectors.
Now before we do that, let's go ahead and in fact create a replica set so that we get a little amount
of confidence to go ahead and discuss about other areas.
So I'll save this file and let's go ahead and open this with terminal I'll say kubectl apply hyphen
f replica set dot YAML.
So as of now a replica set has been created.
Now when you type kubectl get replica set you see you have a new replica set that is available.
And now if you say kubectl get pods, you see in total of three pods are getting created.
So it takes a little amount of time since it is a new image.
So if I clear the screen and if I do kubectl get pods again you see all of the pods are running.
So now comes the important part of the labels and the selectors.
Now this label that you see over here, replica set will go ahead and associate this label with all
of the pods that it creates.
For example, when you run kubectl get pods show labels, you see all of them has this tier is equal
to front end which is this specific label.
And the next part is the selector.
Now as we know replica set manages pods.
It can scale up the pod.
It can scale down the pod.
Now how will replica set know that these are the pods that it is managing.
For example, how will replica set know that maybe out of 1000 pods, these are the three pods that
it is managing.
So it does that using the labels.
And this is the reason why you also have the selectors.
So here what we are seeing is replica set should use this specific selector to identify the pods that
are being created through replica set, YAML file and whatever pods that you see with this label replica
set can work on that.
Maybe as part of scaling up, maybe as part of scaling down and so on.
So now let's also go ahead and look into the scaling up process as well.
The command is very simple.
You have kubectl scale.
You specify how many replicas you need.
Let's say I need ten replicas.
Or maybe let's say I need five replicas.
Now you specify the replica set, we will use the short form which is Rs for replica set.
And then you can specify the name of the replica set.
Now the name of replica set is this.
And you can specify it and press enter.
All right.
So now it says that this specific replica set has been scaled.
Now if you type kubectl get replica set you see the desired is five, current is five.
And now if you do kubectl get pods, you have total of five pods that are running in a similar way.
If you do not want five pods, let's say you only want one pod.
You can run the same command with the newer set of replica.
In this case it is one.
So now when you do kubectl get pods, you see only one pod is currently running.
So that's the high level overview about the basic practical related to creation and management of replica
set in Kubernetes.
In the upcoming set of videos, we'll be discussing about this in great detail.
However, today we are going to keep it simple, practical wise.
So that's about it.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Challenges with ReplicaSets ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about some of the important challenges specifically related
to replica set that you should be aware of.
Now, before we explore some of the challenges, one important part that we need to be aware of is that
replica sets are primarily designed to run a specific set of pods.
It can be three pod, five pod, etc. however, they are not designed to handle regular updates or changes
to their configuration.
This is a very important part to note, and this is the reason why some of the important challenges
that you will face in replica set based configuration is related to updates or changes as part of their
configuration.
So let's take a simple example that will allow us to understand things in more detail.
So let's take a scenario where you have a user.
User has informed replica set that a total of three pods based on nginx image needs to run all the time,
and replica set in turn has created three nginx spot.
This is great.
Now the problem that happens is that maybe at a later stage you have decided that you need a different
version of nginx, the higher version of nginx that was recently released, or maybe a different image
altogether.
In such cases, generally, when you update the pod template as part of the replica set, the existing
pods are not updated.
So, for example, let's say that you change the image as part of the pod template from Nginx to Apache.
A replica set is not going to update the existing pod, and this can create a lot of issues.
Let's go ahead and quickly look into it.
So for today's video I have a very simple manifest file based on replica set.
And this is based on nginx image.
I'll also be adding the code in the GitHub page.
Now when you go ahead and do a kubectl apply on the file, we have the replica set that is created.
Now when you do a kubectl get replica set You see, total desired is three.
The current is three.
This is good.
And when you do a kubectl get pods, you have three pods based on the replica set that is running.
Now let's say that tomorrow a newer version of application got released.
Now again, just for simplicity, we have used nginx, but in a production environment you will have
application version, right?
So currently let's assume that you have version one of the app running.
So something like this.
But maybe after 10 or 15 days there is new version two of app that is released.
So what you'll typically do for the replica set, you will update the image over here with the latest
version.
Now just for simplicity, I'll change it to httpd, which is the Apache web server.
Now, generally when you make the change to the pod spec and when you go ahead and apply that same change
over here.
The apply is completed.
So now what?
You will assume that these web servers would be replaced by the newer version of the application.
In our case, it would be replaced by the Apache web server.
However, when you do a kubectl get pods, you see no new pods are created.
The older pods are still running over here.
Now when you do a kubectl describe replica set web server replica set.
So at this stage you see in the image it is showing us as httpd latest.
So from here we can determine that replica set configuration by itself was updated successfully.
However, the pods as part of the replica set are not updated here.
So just to verify you can just do a kubectl get pods, you will see that you have the older pods that
are running and you can also do a cube CTL describe pod.
Just take one pod name over here you can look into the image.
The image of the pod is still nginx.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood this important challenge one.
And this is the reason why, in the first slide a pointer was added which states that the main aim of
replica set is to maintain certain state of running pods.
So in this case the replicas is three.
So three pods will always be running, but it is not designed to handle regular updates or changes to
the configuration, primarily the pod spec.
Now at this stage.
If you go ahead and delete the pod, let me quickly show you this is interesting and important to know.
So let's say that when you delete the pod.
So now what will happen is in the replica set configuration we have added images httpd.
So whatever newer pods that gets created as part of replica set, those newer pods will be based on
the newer configuration.
All right.
So this issue related to the updates not been applicable is only related to the existing pod, not the
newer pod.
So if I delete the pod over here now if you do a kubectl get pods, you will see that one more pod has
been started by the replica set.
So this newer pod will use the latest configuration whatever is been defined.
So now if you do a cube CTL describe pod you can copy the pod name here.
And if you will see this pod is based on the httpd latest image.
All right.
So this is one important part to remember.
Again in a production environment this is not the desired state that you always like.
Because if you have one newer version of application and two pods based on older version of application,
then users might face lot of issues which you do not really want.
So in such cases you can just say kubectl scale replica set Asset web server, replica set and replicas
you can set to zero.
You can do kubectl get pods.
There are no pods.
And now you can go ahead and set the replica sets again to three.
And when you do a kubectl get pods now all of the pods that would be created would be based on the latest
image.
However, in this approach of zero and three, you see that at a stage there are no pods that are running,
so you do not really want to do it in production environment because your website will stop running.
And when there are thousands of users, this is a big no no.
Alright, so again this is good for our knowledge and testing environment, but not for the production
environment.
The second important challenge that you need to know is that there is no rollback mechanism that is
inbuilt as part of replica set.
For example, let's say that you have a specific state of replica set configuration.
It can be image of a replica set and you make some changes and you have the state number two.
Now you realize that there are some issues related to state number two, and you would like to revert
it to the previous state.
So in order for this rollback to happen, there is no direct inbuilt feature that is part of replica
set that supports this.
Now generally in production environments there are thousands of deployments that you will see regularly
happening.
Now among those thousands of deployments, it can happen.
20 or 30 deployments are not really working.
So you want to quickly roll back.
So this is one of the features that is not part of replica set.
And the third challenge that you will generally see is related to the label collision.
This also is quite important.
So let's say that you have created a replica set.
And in the selector of that replica set you have defined app is equal to test hyphen app.
So now what will happen is all of the pod which has this specific label will be added and will be managed
by the replica set.
Now, in case if there is some external part that you have created already earlier.
So let's say replica set you created today, but this specific part is running since past three months.
Now this part also has the same label that is added as part of the selector.
Now what will happen is replica set will automatically start to manage this specific part, and it can
also delete the part when you specifically scale down the operation.
So this again can have unintended consequences.
So you have to be quite careful.
So let us take an example.
So what I'll do I'll just delete all of the contents that we have created from Rs dot YAML file.
Now if you look into this specific file the label is app web server.
And the selector is also that this is selector.
This is label.
So now what will happen is replica set will use this specific selector to identify what are the pods
that it needs to manage?
And this is the reason why these labels are important.
Because these labels will be associated with the pods that will be created from the pod spec over here.
Now let's say that I create a pod, let's say cube CTL run the name of pod, let's call it as external
pod.
And the image that we are going to use is nginx.
Now we are going to also label this pod I will say cube CTL label pod.
External pod.
And the label will say app is equal to web server.
Just make sure it is same as the selector and replica set.
Great.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods you can quickly do a show labels over here.
You see you have app equals to web server that is available.
Now what we are going to do we are going to create this replica set again.
And in this replica set we know that we have a specific selector that matches the port that has the
specific label.
Now, when you go ahead and do a kubectl apply on YAML, and when you do a kubectl get pods, this is
the interesting part that you have to observe carefully.
You see only two pods were created and this specific pod.
External pod, which was created way earlier.
But apparently it has this label that matches the selector from the replica set manifest file.
So now replica set has also started to manage this pod.
How will you verify?
You can simply do a cube CTL get Rs.
You see the desired is three, the current is three.
And we know that only two web servers were created in terms of Pod.
So this is also getting managed.
Now let's say you go ahead and delete the contents of Rs dot YAML.
So now what will happen.
All of these three pods will be deleted.
So now if you quickly do a kubectl get pods, you see even your external pod got deleted.
And this is the reason why it is important to be very careful specifically related to what selectors
and labels that you add as part of your replica set manifest.
Now, before we conclude one more thing that I wanted to share.
Let's take a similar example where we are going to run an external pod again, and we are going to label
this pod again.
All right.
Same label.
App is equal to web server.
So generally what can be done is you can have multiple set of labels that can be added.
So let's say I specify env as prod in the labels.
And same I'll add it in the selector.
Now what will happen when you do a kubectl get pods?
In fact let's do it with show labels.
At this stage you only have one matching label as part of part of selector.
However, here we have mentioned in total of two labels that should be matched as part of the selector,
and in this way your external pod will remain to be safe.
So in order to verify, let's go ahead and quickly create the SES dot YAML again.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods you will see a total of three pods are getting created.
And if you look into the labels, the newer pod that gets created has in total of two labels app is
equal to web server.
Env equals to prod.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood some of the important challenges specifically
related to replica set that you need to be aware of.
Now in Kubernetes, there is one more very important object of deployment which can solve some of the
challenges that we were discussing in today's video.
And deployments are used quite extensively in the production environments.
We are going to discuss about deployments in the upcoming set of videos.
And for today we will conclude this video.

--- Overview of Deployments ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a very important topic in Kubernetes which is deployments.
Deployment is one of the common resource that you will see in most of the production based Kubernetes
cluster.
And this is the reason why it is important for us to understand this topic in detail.
Now, before we start, one thing that we need to note is that deployment behind the scenes, it makes
use of replica set to go ahead and create and manage pods.
So let's go ahead and understand on how replica sets and deployments work with each other using a simple
analogy.
So the analogy for today's video is related to camera and lens.
So you can consider that main camera body over here.
You can consider it to be the replica set.
So ultimately behind the scenes it is this camera body that ensures that right number of photos are
being captured.
And there is also a important part in the camera which is the lens.
So more powerful the lens, the better photo you can get.
So you can consider this lens to be the deployment.
Alright, so ultimately the lens just does not sit on top of the camera, right?
It enhances and extends the camera's functionality, allowing newer perspectives in a very similar way.
You have a replica set that is taking care of running a specific set of pods.
However, on top of a replica set similar to how lens sits on top of camera and enhances the overall
functionality specifically related to the area of zooming in a similar terms, the deployment.
They sit on the top of replica set and it manages with wide variety of updates.
So at an overview, deployment is a high level abstraction that is built on top of replica set, and
it provides much more advanced features.
That replica set by itself does not provide, like rolling, update rollbacks, versioning, etc..
So what we are going to do today, we are going to discuss about some of the important features that
deployment provides from a demo perspective.
And in the upcoming videos, we are going to discuss about these things in great detail.
Now, one of the first use cases that we are going to discuss is related to updation of container image.
Now when we discuss about replica set, when you try to change the container image, the existing pod
are not really affected, only the newer pods.
Whenever they are created, they will be created with a newer image.
However, when you have the similar use case with deployment, the workflow is very different.
You can easily change various specifications like container image and the existing pods will be replaced
with the newer version of the container image whenever it is launched.
Alright, so before we proceed further, let's also go ahead and look into it.
Now for today's demo, I have two files that are available.
One is the replica set and one is associated with deployment.
Now one point to note is that this is a demo based video where our aim is to understand the difference
and the advantages that deployment brings.
Once we understand the advantages of deployment, then we are going to have a separate practical video
associated with deployment.
Alright, so this is not a practical video.
Here we are going to understand things at an overview.
Now let's go ahead and create both the replica set and the deployment.
Now one thing that you will see that for replica set you have replicas of one.
And the image of container is nginx.
Similarly for deployment replicas is one and the image for container is nginx.
Very similar.
Now when you go ahead and do a kubectl get pods, you see in total there are two pods that are running.
Now in the initial slide we discussed that deployment behind the scenes.
It makes use of replica set to go ahead and create and maintain the appropriate pods.
So this is the reason why when you go ahead and do a cube CTL get replica set in total, you will see
that there are two replica sets that are available, among which this specific one is related to the
deployment.
And you see the naming convention is also similar which is nginx deployment.
So the first part is related to deployment.
The second part is related to replica set.
Now let's say that there is a requirement where newer version of application needs to be published.
So what you will do, you will add the newer image of the application.
Now just for simplicity, I will change the image to the httpd which is associated with Apache.
All right.
So I'll do the same change in both the deployment and the replica set.
Let's clear the screen.
I'll go ahead and I'll do an apply for both the replica set and apply for the deployment.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods and a new pod is created Recently and the age is four seconds.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods, you will see.
Now we have total of two pods, only one associated with nginx deployment.
Second associated with replica set.
Now the issue is that replica set pod is still the older version of pod, which is running since two
minutes 23 seconds.
So even when we didn't apply to the replica set, the existing pod was not really modified.
Only the newer pod.
Whenever it gets launched, maybe after a year it gets launched.
The newer pod will have the newer updates like a newer container image.
The older pod will not be modified even when you change things like container image in replica set.
If you also want to verify, you can just do kubectl describe pod.
If you want to see what image each one is using.
So deployment.
You see that the deployment pod is using the latest httpd image.
And when you do a kubectl get pods Let's do kubectl describe pod.
This specific replica set managed pod.
And you see it is still using the nginx image.
All right.
And only after a new pod is created.
So in case if we go ahead and delete this specific pod.
So now one more pod will be created by replica set.
So this newer pod that will be created by the replica set will be based on the newer image which is
httpd.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the importance of the deployment when compared to the replica set.
Although deployment makes use of replica set to go ahead and maintain certain set of pods, but still
there are multiple set of features that deployment provides that are not directly available as part
of replica set.
The second very important use case is related to rolling update.
Now let's assume that you have a deployment.
Now this deployment behind the scenes as we know it makes use of replica set to manage one pod with
the app.
Version one.
Now, tomorrow, let's say that there is a newer version of this image called as app version two that
got released, and you want to go ahead and deploy that.
So in such case, deployments will perform the update in a rollout manner to ensure that your app is
not down.
So it is not that you want to go ahead and release the app version two.
So even before the version two is made available, the version one will be removed.
So this is something that is not done.
So what deployment will do.
It will go ahead and create one more replica set.
And it will first deploy the app.
Version two after app version two is deployed.
Then the app version one base pod gets removed.
So this way it ensures that your application is not down.
It will not just directly go ahead and remove the app version one pod before it creates the app version
two pod.
Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you this.
So I'll just go ahead and remove the replica set and the deployment that were created.
And we'll go ahead and we'll recreate the deployment dot YAML file.
All right.
Now at this stage you have one pod that is running.
So let's say that you change the image of the deployment again.
So let's consider it to be the version two of the application.
Now when you go ahead and deploy this.
Now before we do that when you do a kubectl get replica set, there is only one replica set that is
available.
Now when you go ahead and deploy this specific file and when you do a kubectl get pods with hyphen w,
you will get the exact steps over here.
Now note that this specific one.
This is the older version of image that was initially running before we made an update.
All right.
It ends with 67.
So earlier this was the pod that was running.
Now we went ahead.
We changed the image in the deployment.yaml and we applied those changes.
So deployment created one more pod with r q h.
So this is where the new pod is getting created.
And after some amount of time you see the newer pod is in the running status.
Only after the newer pod is in the running status.
Then the older pod ending with 67 is getting terminated.
And this type of approach, where the newer updated image pod gets created first and then the older
pod gets terminated, is part of the rolling update feature.
Now there is a lot of flexibility related to how it works in detail, which we'll be discussing in the
later videos.
However, at this stage you will see that there is one pod that would be running, which is our q h.
Which the next very important feature is related to the rollout history.
So deployment allows us to inspect the history of the deployments that have been created not only today,
but also the past history.
So this is very good feature.
So in case if you want to revert back your deployment this is also possible.
Let's also go ahead and quickly explore this.
So let's clear the screen.
If I say cube CTL rollout history and the name of the deployment is nginx deployment.
You see this is the history.
You have the revision one and you have the revision two.
Now in case if we make a change say 1.27.3 and we do a cube CTL apply on the deployment.
Now when you do a cube CTL rollout history, you see you have the revision three as well.
You can also add the change over here.
Again this is something that we'll be discussing at a later part of the course.
But at this stage note that there are multiple history related revisions that are mentioned, and you
can also switch to the previous version.
So this is where the last part of today's video is going to be all about, which is related to rolling
back the changes.
Now, it can happen that whenever you make a new change to the deployment.
Now at this stage, we already know that it will not go ahead and first delete the older part.
It will wait for the newer part to be created.
Now let's assume that whatever newer part that is created has some issues.
Your application is not really working well.
So in such cases, you can easily do a rollback to the previous replica set.
And this replica set will again recreate the previous version of the pod.
What benefit it provides?
It provides quick rollback in case if there are any issues where application is not stable, and so
on.
And this is the reason why it will generally see if I do a cube CTL get replica set, it maintains the
previous version of the replica set as well.
You see, you had in total of three revision, if you remember.
And for all of the revisions, the replica sets are maintained.
So tomorrow, let's say you want to switch to the first revision that was created, which is this specific
one.
Then all that the deployment needs to do behind the scenes is that for this replica set, it needs to
change the desired capacity to one and change the specific replica sets desired capacity to zero.
So a newer part will be created based on the older version of replica set with the older set of configurations
like the container image.
Now, before we conclude, I have also added a table as part of our PPT that explains the high level
difference between a replica set and deployment.
You can go ahead and explore that.
And in the upcoming video, we are going to discuss about the deployments from a practical point of
view.
All right.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood what deployment is trying to do.
The detailed part will understand it in practical videos.

--- Deployment - Practical ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with deployment.
Let's go ahead and get started to understand on how deployments are created, along with some of the
important features.
Now in order to create a new deployment, the overall command is very simple.
So again, there are multiple ways you can directly make use of kubectl create to create a deployment.
You can also go to the manifest file based approach.
So first we'll go ahead and explore the command line approach.
So the command is kubectl create deployment.
Then you can give a name let's say nginx deployment.
And the image I'll say nginx a very simple command to create a deployment.
When you go ahead and do a kubectl get deployment you will see that one deployment is created.
As we know deployment behind the scenes it makes use of replica set to manage the total number of pods.
Now when you do a cube CTL Kubectl get pods.
You have one pod that is running and if you do a cube ctl get rs which is the replica set.
You also have one replica set that is available.
Now in order for us to scale the deployment, it is very similar to that of the replica set.
However, before we go ahead and scale it, let us also explore the deployment from a manifest file
perspective.
So for example, we had used this command to create a deployment.
So now we'll use the dry run equals to client and output of YAML.
And we'll save to a new file called as deployment.yaml.
In the directory we'll explore how exactly this looks like.
Now in our CP labs CA test, if you explore the deployment.yaml this is the basic structure.
Now again in case if you would like, you can trim it down a little to remove some of the unnecessary
fields that are not really required.
All right.
Now when you compare this with the replica set manifest file, it is very similar.
Now if you see in the replica set you have replicas one.
Similarly in the deployment also you have replicas one.
Now in fact, let's go ahead and compare both of these files and how it looks like.
All right.
So this part will change.
Replica set to deployment.
The replicas remains to be one.
Now in the replica set also you have selector and same approach in deployment.
Also you have selector.
Then inside the template you have labels in replica set.
And again you have labels.
And then you have a spec.
You have a spec.
So in case if you are comfortable with replica set manifest file, the deployment manifest file is almost
similar to that.
Now before we make some changes, one thing that I wanted to show.
So when you do a kubectl rollout history on the deployment of nginx deployment, you see that you only
have a revision of one.
So this is where we did the actual kubectl apply or the command that we had run.
So this becomes the revision one.
Now when you go ahead and modify certain aspects of the deployment then the revision will be changed.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and change the image that we had used for the deployment.
So we'll use a slightly different approach of kubectl set image.
Now if you generally use a hyphen hyphen help it will show you the exact command.
So this command works with a wide variety of objects like deployments, daemonset etc..
We are more interested in this.
All right you can use this.
So we don't want BusyBox.
We are more interested in nginx.
So let's change the version from Nginx to Apache.
All right, so we made a small mistake.
This part we have to make sure that the name is correct.
In fact let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and specify the full name nginx deployment.
And the image is updated.
Now as soon as the image is updated, when you do a kubectl get pods, you see that you have a newer
pod based on the Apache image that is running.
Now.
Since we have made some changes to the deployment, you will also see it to be reflected as part of
the rollout history.
So you can say kubectl rollout history deployment of nginx deployment.
This time you will see a total of two revision.
This is the first when the deployment was created.
And this is the second when we made this specific change.
Now for each revision you will also have certain set of replica set you see.
Total two replica sets are available.
This is the first replica set that was created.
So in fact, if you inspect this specific replica set, let's go ahead and look into this.
You will see that within here the image is enginex.
All right.
So ultimately when we made an update to the container image, the deployment created a new replica set.
In fact let's also explore this.
This is the newer replica set.
We'll run the same command but with a newer replica set here.
You see here the image is httpd.
So now let's say that you want to revert the changes.
So in the PPT also we were discussing that.
Let's assume that you have a newer version of application deployed.
But this is not really working as expected.
You want to revert back to the previous version.
So this is also something that is possible.
So what you can do before we do that I'll just do a cube CTL get Rs so that we can observe it.
And now you can say cube CTL rollout undo deployment.
You can just specify the name of deployment which is nginx deployment.
And that's about it.
You see it has rolled back.
Now when it has rolled back when you do a cube CTL get Rs.
You see this specific deployment which had the nginx image ending with C9.
Here the desired is one.
All right.
And the other replica set which had the httpd image simply the desired is zero.
And that's the reason why port is removed.
So this is the way in which deployment can go ahead and easily revert back to the previous changes of
the previous versions.
So let's clear the screen.
Now when you do a cube CTL rollout Undo with hyphen.
Hyphen.
Help.
You see, we had used this specific approach.
But there is also one more approach of this one where you have a two hyphen revision equals to three.
So basically when you do a cube CTL rollout history on the deployment of nginx deployment.
Currently these are the versions that are available.
Now generally in production environments it can happen that there are 1015 versions.
So you just do not want to revert back to the earlier version that was present previously.
You might want to roll back to a version that is there maybe one week before.
So in such cases you can say cube, CTL rollout, undo deployment of nginx deployment and then you can
specify two revision.
To two.
All right.
So here you can specify the exact revision that you want to go ahead and revert back to.
So this again is quite useful.
Now, before we conclude a few more things that I wanted to show you.
So at this stage you have one port that is running.
But let's say that you want more number of ports to be running.
So you can just say cube CTL scale replicas, S3 and deployment of nginx deployment.
So it has scaled.
When you do a kubectl get pods you have total of three pods that are running.
So after clearing the screen one thing that you have to ensure that after you completed the practicals,
you can go ahead and delete the deployment that you have created.
In our case it is nginx deployment.
Once the deployment is created, all of the replica set that were created through deployment will also
be removed.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the deployments from a practical point of view.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview - Multiple Worker Nodes Based Cluster ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about multiple worker nodes that can be added as part of
the Kubernetes cluster and its associated benefits.
Now, one point that needs to be noted specifically, if you have a Kubernetes cluster with a single
worker node environment, is that the worker node also has a certain set of limitations.
For example, let's say that this node one has one GB of Ram and one CPU.
So can it run one pod?
Yes it can.
Can it run 100 pods?
It might not.
Why?
Because this specific worker node does not have enough resources to run 100 pods.
Or it can also happen.
That one pod that you might want to run over here requires huge amount of memory and CPU, and this
node might not be able to handle it.
So this is the reason why generally in a production level Kubernetes cluster, you will not see just
one worker node.
There can be multiple sets.
There can be hundreds.
There can even be thousands.
All right.
So at a high level overview, one point that we need to note is that adding a worker node to your overall
Kubernetes cluster will distribute the workload across the worker node.
So, for example, let's say that you are scheduling 100 pods.
So will all the 100 pods be scheduled in the node one?
Answer is no.
They will be distributed across node one.
Node two.
Node three.
And in this way, since the overall workload is distributed, maximum number of pods will be able to
run as part of the Kubernetes cluster.
And as part of Kubernetes, it is not necessary that you have started a Kubernetes cluster with one
node.
Now you cannot add node two whenever you require.
You can go ahead and easily add multiple set of worker nodes based on the requirement.
Now tomorrow you only have 1 or 2 pods that would be running.
So do you really need three nodes?
Answer is not necessarily.
You might even choose to use two node based cluster to save costs.
So depending upon the requirement, you can increase and decrease the overall worker node accordingly.
Now I also wanted to share a few more benefits associated with having a Having a multiple worker nodes
in a Kubernetes cluster.
One primary benefit is related to fault tolerance.
So let's assume that you only have one worker node.
And if that one worker node fails, then whatever application pod that was running on that node will
become unavailable.
And this is something that you do not really want.
So in case if you have multiple worker nodes and a worker node went down, then you can or even Kubernetes
can reschedule that pod from that failed worker node to the other running worker node so that your application
becomes running all of the time.
Now, it is also important for us to know on how you can see how many nodes are part of your Kubernetes
cluster.
And the command is very simple.
It is kubectl get nodes.
So if you look into the first screenshot you have one worker node.
And it also shows you what is the Kubernetes version that is being used as part of this.
And in the second screenshot over here, you see there are three worker nodes that are available.
Now generally when you are learning Kubernetes then one worker node is quite decent enough.
However, when you implement Kubernetes for the production environment, then you should ideally have
multiple set of worker nodes.
Now again, it will increase the cost, but the production environment can be much more safer in such
cases.
So let's go ahead and also look into it from a demo perspective.
So as we were discussing that you can use the kubectl get nodes command to go ahead and check how many
worker nodes that are available.
So in this case you have three worker nodes that are available.
Now again generally I only keep one worker node during the learning phase.
But specifically for this video, I added few more worker nodes so that we can see on how exactly it
looks like.
Now, as we were discussing that it is not necessary that you have to fix how many nodes that will be
present when you create a Kubernetes cluster.
You can go ahead and increase or decrease the number of worker nodes whenever you require.
So just for example, let's explore the managed Kubernetes cluster that we have in DigitalOcean.
If I open this, if you look into the worker node that I have, you see the total number of nodes are
three.
If I open this, you see there are in total of three worker nodes.
And you can increase it as well based on the requirement.
Now one very important point that we need to note is that it is not necessary that all worker nodes
have the same hardware specification.
You can have different worker nodes with different hardware capacity.
For example, in this table you have worker node one with two GB Ram, two core CPU worker node two
four GB Ram, four core CPU worker node three eight GB Ram eight core CPU.
So this is the flexibility that you have.
You don't really need to worry about all of this based on the requirement.
You can add the worker node accordingly.
Now for example, if you see the worker node that we have, all of these three worker node has same
specification, one Vcpu and two GB of Ram.
However, in case if you require, you can also go ahead and launch the worker node with much more higher
specification.
So for example, let's say some application might not really work with two GB Ram.
It really requires higher amount of Amount of capacity.
For example, 16 GB of Ram is required.
So in such case you can also go ahead and make use of it.
Now again, we'll have a separate practical video specifically related to a DigitalOcean based managed
Kubernetes cluster on how you can create additional set of worker nodes.
In this video, we are just looking into it at a high level overview.
Now, as we were discussing that adding more worker nodes allows you to distribute workloads across
the worker node.
This is very important.
So let me also quickly show you this from a demo perspective.
So let's say that I want to create a deployment let's call it as nginx deployment.
The image will be nginx.
And the total number of replicas that we need is say three.
All right.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods, you have in total of three pods that are currently scheduled to
run.
And in case if you like to see in which specific worker node a pod is running on, and you will be able
to see the exact node where the pod is running.
So this part.
T1M, T1Q and p t2.
So for example, let me also quickly show you.
So in total you see there are three worker nodes that we have t2 t1 m t1 q.
Each pod is scheduled in one worker node.
So in total three pods are scheduled across all of the three worker nodes over here.
Now, the next pointer that we were discussing is that if one worker node fails, then the application
can become unavailable.
Now specifically when we discuss about objects like deployments, etc. let's say if one worker node
fails, then the control plane will automatically recreate the pod in the other worker nodes that are
currently available.
So for example, let's say at this stage we have in total of three worker nodes.
I will remove one of the worker nodes, and then we will look into how the pods get rescheduled.
Now again note that the approach that we use to scale will be discussing in the practical video associated
with DigitalOcean cluster.
However, let's also go ahead and run the.
Kubectl get pods with output of white so that we can have the details of the current.
Node.
Now I have made few changes and currently you see as part of the managed Kubernetes cluster.
You only have two nodes that are available.
So from a different tab when I run the kubectl get nodes command, once again you see there are only
two.
Worker nodes that are currently available.
So the T one queue which was this specific node.
Has been removed.
So this node also had one specific pod that was running.
So now when you do a.
Kubectl get pods with hyphen o of white, you will see that this specific node has two pods over here.
This is the pod one and this is the pod two.
Now since there are three pods you do not really want to.
Schedule all of that three pods in a single worker node when you have multiple worker nodes available.
Right.
So this is one of the good ways in which scheduler makes decision on which worker node what pod will
go into.
Now, in case if one more worker node goes down, then all of the three pods will go into the single
worker node that is available.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the advantage of having multiple worker nodes in a Kubernetes cluster.
Now, before we conclude, one point that you need to note is that depending upon the type of environment
that you had used to create a Kubernetes cluster, is it in DigitalOcean?
Is it in AWS?
Is it Azure based Kubernetes cluster, etc.?
The steps that you need to take to add additional nodes or remove some nodes from the cluster will change
accordingly.
Now again, the basic Kubernetes concept will remain to be the same, but the GUI console of Azure will
differ from AWS and that will differ from DigitalOcean.
So at an overview, if you understand the basics, then based on the environment that you had used,
the approaches will slightly be different, but the main concept will remain to be the same.
All right.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Create Additional Worker Node for Managed K8s ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the advantages of having multiple worker nodes as
part of your Kubernetes cluster.
Now in today's video, we are going to look into how you can have multiple worker nodes as part of the
managed Kubernetes cluster offering based on DigitalOcean.
So currently I have a Kubernetes cluster that is running over here.
Now as part of this course, we had created a Kubernetes cluster based on a single worker node based
configuration to keep our cost at minimum.
So here you see you only have one worker node that is available.
However, in case if you'd like you can also have multiple set of worker nodes.
For example you see this is the basic node pool.
And the current worker node that we have is based on this specific configuration, which is one Vcpu
and two GB Ram.
In case if you like, you can also go ahead and resize or autoscale over here.
Now if you see currently node that is available is one, you can also go ahead and have two nodes.
Now again, note that the more the number of nodes, the higher it will cost you.
However, just to show you on how exactly it works, I'll go ahead and I'll create a two node cluster.
Now again you can also after your practical you can remove the additional worker node that was created
as well.
So this is one part.
Now note that both of the worker nodes that will be created as part of this specific node pool will
have similar configuration.
So this worker node server that gets created will also have this configuration of one Vcpu and two GB
Ram.
Now let's say that you are planning to deploy an application, but that application really requires
four GB of Ram.
It will not really work with this specific configuration.
Then in such cases you can launch the third worker node as well, but with a different spec size.
For example, you can create an additional pool.
Now again you don't really have to create.
I am doing it so that you understand the concept over here.
So within a let's call it as big worker nodes.
All right.
And within here there are multiple node plants that are available.
I'll use the one associated with four GB of Ram.
And it also shows you how many worker nodes that are required.
I'll say I need only one worker node with four GB of Ram, and two other worker nodes are based on the
two GB Ram based configuration.
All right.
So this pricing that you see is only associated with a worker node.
So I'll go ahead and I'll add node pools over here.
So now in total we will have two node pools.
So let's quickly wait for a moment for it to get updated in the console as well.
So I'll refresh it here.
And currently you have two node pools in the first node pool.
Over here you have two worker nodes with similar configuration.
And in the second node pool you have one worker node.
It is still in the provisioning status but with a higher capacity.
Now when you clear the screen and when you do kubectl get nodes.
At this stage you have in total of two worker nodes.
One worker node is still in the not ready status.
This worker node ends with l2 c.
So if you will verify it is this specific one l2 c.
Now note that generally when worker nodes are created, it takes a little amount of time for them to
be first added as part of your cluster and then from status to be changed from not ready to ready.
All right.
So it can take around 5 to 10 minutes.
So when you do kubectl get nodes the status is now ready.
As we know we had also launched one more node pool with a bigger configuration.
Worker node.
So that also will take around few minutes for it to be added.
So let's go ahead and run this command once again.
And this time the big worker node is added but it is not ready.
So let's quickly wait for a minute or two so that all of our worker nodes are added.
So after 20 30s, if I run this command again, you see that our big worker node is also added successfully?
Now, once you have multiple set of worker nodes, you can go ahead and create a deployment just to
understand on how the pods get scheduled.
So let's say I run cube CTL create deployment.
I'll say nginx deployment with the image of nginx and replicas let's say replicas of five.
All right.
And now when you do a kubectl get pods with output of wide oops.
Let's change to white.
Here you will see the overall distribution.
So this is the node that you have to look into.
Now out of five pods three of the pods are in the big worker node.
You see three of them are in big worker node.
One pod is in a worker node ending with L2.
See and one pod is in the worker node ending with p82.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood about the benefits of having multiple worker node.
We also looked into this specific pointer where.
Worker node can be of different sizes based on the requirement.
Now again you do not really want to get a high bill.
So what we are going to do, we are going to remove the worker nodes that are not really required.
Maybe at a later stage whenever you come across practical where you need two worker nodes.
In such cases you can go ahead and launch a worker node accordingly.
But if it is not required, you can go ahead and avoid it.
Now there will be some practicals where we will be discussing on how you can schedule a pod to a specific
worker node.
And there are few other practicals where multiple worker node will prove to be useful.
At this stage it is not, so we'll go ahead and remove it.
So big worker node specifically is something that we do not really want.
So we'll delete it.
All right.
And in a similar way the base worker node that we have will also resize it from two node to one node
so that our cost is at minimum.
Now again since you are removing a specific worker node, this can also take a little amount of time.
Somewhere around 4 to 5 minutes.
Now generally what happens is when a worker node gets removed.
When you do a cube CTL get nodes.
What happens is the status you see scheduling disabled.
So what.
This basically indicates that whenever you try to create new pods, those new pods will not be created
in these set of worker nodes where scheduling is disabled.
It will only create pods in the node where the status is ready.
So now let's go ahead and run the command once again.
So again we have the same status as we have discussed.
It takes a little amount of time for the node to be removed.
Till that when you do a kubectl get pods with output of wide.
Now you see that the pod that were present in the other two worker nodes have been removed, and deployment
has recreated those pods in only one worker node, which has the status of ready.
So if you do a cube CTL get nodes, you will see that you have only one worker node that has a status
of ready, which is p82.
And all of the ports are in the p82 worker node only.
And along with that, the big worker node has now been removed.
You only have one more worker node that is in process of removal.
So now if you run the cube CTL get nodes command.
The second worker node of this node pool has also been removed.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the practical aspect of adding and removing the worker node.
Again, the process of doing that in DigitalOcean is very simple.
However, based on the environment, let's say you are based on Azure or AWS, the process can change
a little accordingly.
Now, before we conclude today's video, make sure to also go ahead and delete the deployment of nginx
deployment that you have created.
So that's about it.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Node Selector ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about Node Selector.
Now one point that you should note is that generally in a production environment where Kubernetes cluster
is deployed, you will see that there are multiple set of worker nodes.
And it can happen that worker nodes are not of same size but with different sizes.
For example, here you can assume that node one is having two GB of Ram.
Node two is having eight GB of Ram.
Node three is having one GB of Ram.
So the Kubernetes supports different worker node with different hardware specifications.
This is one point to note.
Second important point to note is that whenever you schedule a pod on a specific worker node, you should
also know what are the requirements that pod needs.
Some pod might run application that would require more amount of CPU and memory, while some other pod
will require a very basic bare minimum compute resources to run.
So depending upon what exactly the applications require in terms of CPU and CPU and memory, you can
go ahead and select the appropriate node for that specific port to run.
And one of the approaches that you can use to achieve this is using node selector.
So at a high level overview, node selector allows us to control the placement of pod into a specific
node of a cluster.
So let's take a simple requirement here which states that app a pod requires high memory and CPU.
Run it in a big node.
Now within these three worker nodes that you see, which is the bigger node, the bigger node is node
two.
So using node selector we can schedule the app a pod in the node number two so that it runs perfectly
well.
Otherwise if you do not really use node selector, it can happen that the Kubernetes can assign the
app a pod to node number three, where it will not really work well.
So this is the reason why node selector is quite useful.
Now for today's demo video I have three worker nodes that are available.
Now note that this is a demo video.
We are going to have a separate practical video associated with node selector.
Main aim here is to understand the concept.
Now as part of this cluster I have three nodes that are available.
We can assume it something similar to this specific diagram.
You have node one.
You have node two.
Node three.
One of the node is smaller, one of the node is medium, and one of the node is big.
Now generally in Kubernetes, whenever you create a pod or whenever you create a deployment.
So let's just quickly create a deployment.
Let's just call it as tmp deploy.
And the image that I'll use is nginx and the replicas I'll set it to three.
Now at this stage when you look into the pod placement over here, you will see each pod is running
in individual worker node.
So you have patv p, t2 and p8 d.
So these are three worker nodes that are available as part of the cluster, similar to what you see
over here.
And each pod as part of part of deployment is running in each worker node.
Now, this is fine considering that pod can run on the hardware that a worker node provides.
What happens if Pod really requires a good hardware like four GB Ram, eight GB Ram?
Then in such cases, if Kubernetes places the pod in all of the three worker nodes and these three worker
nodes do not really have a good hardware, then you will have issues.
So in order to avoid that, you can go ahead and make use of node selector here.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and quickly delete the deployment that we had created.
Now for today's demo I have two files that are available.
One is based on Pod.
Second is based on deployment.
Now if you will see in the pod over here, this is a basic pod manifest.
And within here we have added in the pod spec over here.
We have added a node selector which states size is large.
In a similar way, even for deployment you will see that there is a node selector which says size is
medium.
So all of the ports of the deployment will go in a worker node whose size is medium, and the pod will
go in a worker node whose size is large.
So let's go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing on what exactly this is and how it
generally gets assigned.
Now again, note that this is a demo video.
We are going to have a separate practical video.
So let's go ahead and first create a pod.
And let's see to which worker node this pod got assigned to.
The pod got assigned to this specific node which is P8V.
Now I'll go ahead and I'll delete pod that was created.
Now I'll again recreate the pod and we'll see to which node it got assigned to.
Again it got assigned to the same worker node.
This is one part.
All right.
So let's also go ahead and delete this.
In a similar way we are going to go ahead and create the deployment.
Now for deployment you will see that total number of replicas are three.
Now if you explore the placement of the pod let's do that.
You will see all of the pods are placed in a single node which is pad, pad pad.
Now when you do a cube CTL get nodes, you have more nodes that are also available.
Right.
So you have this node that is available.
You have this node that is available.
But the pods were not really assigned to other worker node.
They were only assigned to this specific worker node only.
Why?
Because of this node selector.
Now the question that comes is how does Kubernetes know that this is a micro node or this is a medium
node, or this is a large node, etc..
And the easy answer here is through labels.
So at an overview what you can do, you can assign a label to each worker node.
So let's say that you assign a label of micro to node three, large to node two, medium to node one,
and then as part of node selector, you can say that I only want to run it in a node which has this
specific label.
So for deployment and replica set we used to have this right.
We used to have the selector and we used to have a label in a similar way.
This labels are not attached at a pod level.
These are attached at a node level.
And then using the appropriate selector in this case node selector we say that deploy this specific
pod or deploy this specific deployment in a node which has this specific label of size equals to medium.
So let's take an example where all of this worker node as part of the deployment were assigned to this
specific worker node only.
Now when you explore this specific worker node let's look into this.
And when you look into the labels associated with this.
You see, in the labels you have, size is equal to medium.
And ultimately node selector matches that labels and the pods are scheduled accordingly.
So before we conclude let's look into why we should use node selectors.
Now again one point to note is that in production environment, you can have hundreds or even thousands
of worker nodes and each worker node can be of different size.
Some worker node will have high memory.
Some worker node will have high compute which is high CPU.
Some worker node will have a good amount of GPU.
So based on the actual requirement of your application, you can go ahead and add the appropriate label
to the worker nodes and assign the pods accordingly.
Along with that, many a times, the node selectors are also used to segregate the workload for compliance
performance and for isolation purposes as well.
So that's a very high level overview about node selector.
And in the next video we are going to explore it from a practical point of view.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - NodeSelector ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with Node Selector.
So let's get started.
Now before we start with our practical, it is important for us to understand the high level steps that
we will implement.
Now, the first important step that you have to ensure that whatever worker nodes that you have, they
are labeled appropriately.
Alright, so assign appropriate label to the worker node.
Then in the pod specification you can define a appropriate selector.
In our case it needs to be the node selector to match the desired label as part of pod.
So these are the high level steps.
And once you have done that, the Kubernetes scheduler will place the pod on the node that matches the
appropriate label that you have added as part of the node selector.
So the step number one is we are going to add the appropriate label to the worker node that you have.
The label can be anything.
For example here you have size of medium size of large size of micro.
You can have any set of labels.
It does not really matter.
And once you have added the appropriate label.
Then as part of the pod spec.
Over here you can go ahead and add a node selector, and you have to ensure that whatever key value
that you have added as part of the label, the same is present in the node selector as well.
So these are the high level steps.
Let's go ahead and implement it now as part of today's video.
I have a single node Kubernetes cluster that is currently running.
You only have one worker node.
This is fine.
You will be able to complete the practical with one worker node itself.
Along with that I have one more file called as node selector hyphen pod YAML.
I will be committing this file in our GitHub page for you to reference.
Now this is a very simple file.
In fact your node selector is not really added.
This is a very simple pod manifest file.
You see a simple pod called as pod is getting created with the image of nginx.
Now, before we start with our practical, one thing that I wanted to share is that since we only have
one worker node that is available, and let's say that you decide to go ahead and apply the manifest
file at this stage.
So when this pod is created, to which node will it get assigned to?
It will be assigned to this specific node.
Why?
Because this is the only node that is available.
So in case when you do a kubectl get pods with output of wide, you will see that it is assigned to
this specific node that you see over here.
This is simple to understand at this stage.
So let's go ahead and quickly also delete this specific pod.
Now at this stage we were discussing that as part of node selector there are two steps.
First one is to add a label.
And second is to add a node selector in the pod spec.
So let's go ahead and first try and add a node selector in the pod spec.
So let's say I add node selector here.
And within here we have to add a key value pair.
Let's say I add size as large.
Now at this stage the worker node that we have it does not really have a label with this key value.
So let's also go ahead and verify that.
So let's do one thing.
I'll say cube CTL describe node.
You can specify whatever node that you see over here.
And within here in the labels over here you can see what are the labels that are available.
Now again depending upon the environment based on which you have used a Kubernetes cluster, for example,
this is based on a DigitalOcean cluster.
And this is the reason why.
You see there are some labels that are added by DigitalOcean.
In case if you are using minikube or maybe a Kubernetes cluster based on different environment, the
labels can change accordingly.
Now at this stage, since we have added a node selector where size is large and there is no node that
is matching this specific node selector, what will happen?
Will the pod get scheduled or will it not get scheduled?
Let's go ahead and find it out.
So I'll clear the screen.
I'll go ahead and I'll apply the manifest file over here.
And once you have done that when you do a kubectl get pods You see, the pod status is in pending.
So if you want to look into why that might be the case, you can say kubectl describe pod followed by
the name of pod.
You will get the appropriate detail in the message.
What it states zero out of one nodes are available.
One node didn't match the pod node affinity selector.
Alright, since it did not match the appropriate label, the pod did not get scheduled.
So now let's go ahead and implement the step number one, where we are going to add the appropriate
label to the node.
So now what you can do.
Cube CTL label node.
Now in fact before you do that you need to get the name of node.
So now you can say cube CTL label node.
Add the name.
And then you can specify size equals to large.
All right.
Now you can also go ahead and verify you can do a cube CTL describe node followed by the name of the
node here.
Just verify this part in the labels.
This time you have size equals to large that is available.
And once the label is available now when you do a kubectl get pods, you see this pod is now in the
running state.
Why?
Because it was able to find the appropriate node.
So sometimes what happens is that a worker node based on a specific label that you have added in the
node selector is not working.
It can be network issue, it can be any other issue.
So in such case the pod will continue to be in pending state, and as soon as the appropriate node comes
up, it will be assigned to it.
So you don't really get an error.
If it does not really match any node, it will simply wait for the correct worker node to be available.
So once you have completed the practical, you can go ahead and delete the pod that was created.
And once the pod is deleted, you can also go ahead and remove the label.
So in order to do that you can say cube CTL label node.
You can specify the name of the node followed by the label key.
In this case it is size and you can just specify hyphen.
Oops.
We made a small mistake.
We added the pod name over here.
In fact let's do a cube CTL get nodes.
Let's copy this command.
And here we'll replace it with the appropriate node name.
And the node has been unlabeled.
You can also go ahead and verify that.
You can just say cube CTL describe node followed by the node name.
And if you go a bit up in the labels over here you see the size equals to large is no longer present.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of node selector.
Again, for today's video we took an example of Pod.
You can also use node selector for other Kubernetes resources like deployments as well.
So that's about it.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of DaemonSet ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about Daemonset.
So at a high level overview, a daemonset in Kubernetes ensures that all nodes runs a copy of Pod.
So in this case, what happens is that whenever a new node that gets launched as part of your Kubernetes
cluster, that same copy of pod will also be created in that new worker node.
Now let us take an example.
Now sometimes the question that comes is why do you need a copy of Pod running on each worker node?
Now there are a wide variety of examples.
One of the common examples that you will generally see in a Kubernetes cluster that is running in an
organization that goes to some sort of security compliance, and the type of pod is antivirus pod.
So you will see that antivirus pod generally needs to run in each worker node over here.
Now you don't really need multiple set of pods in a single worker node.
One pod in a worker node is good enough over here.
Now at this stage, let's say that in the organization there is one more worker node that got created.
So in that worker node also you want this same pod that needs to be created.
So when you have a use case, something similar to this daemon set proves to be very useful.
So before we go ahead and look into other pointers, let's look into this from a demo perspective and
we'll have a separate practical video on how we can create daemon set from scratch.
At this stage, this specific concept that we are discussing needs to be clear.
Now, as part of this initial stage, when I do a kubectl get nodes, you will see that I only have
one worker node that is available as part of the cluster.
Now in such case, when you go ahead and create a daemon set before we create a daemon set, let's go
ahead and verify if daemon set is present.
And at this stage it says no resource found.
This is good.
Let's go ahead and create a daemon set over here.
Now again note that we are going to discuss in detail about how the daemon set manifest looks like in
the practical video.
At this stage, let's ensure that our concept is understood.
So you see it says daemon set antivirus is created.
Now when you say kubectl get daemon set, you have one daemon set that is available.
And when you do kubectl get pods, you see you have one port that is running.
Why is only one port running?
Because I only have one worker node that is part of the cluster.
Now just to ensure that our concept is better understood what I am going to do, I am going to go ahead
and launch two more worker nodes as part of the Kubernetes cluster.
All right.
Again, this is a demo video so that our concept is understood.
So in total now we will have three worker nodes that will be available.
So once you have three worker node we will see on how Daemonset automatically launches one pod in each
worker node.
So in total two more additional pods for two additional worker nodes that are getting created.
Now from the CLI, this time when you do a kubectl get nodes, you see a total of three nodes are currently
available.
Now when you do kubectl get pods Boards you see automatically in total of three ports are currently
running.
And in case if you would like to see whether each port is in a unique node, you can just do kubectl
get pods with output of wide and you can check the node over here.
Each node has a unique id two jq two two JF.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the main benefit that the Daemonset provides.
Now when we discuss about common type of agents that you will generally see added as part of Daemonset,
one of the common one in lot of production environments is related to antivirus and malware scanning
agent.
You also have log collection agents that can collect logs from nodes.
These are also quite common and added as part of Daemonset, and also a wide variety of monitoring and
metrics.
Collection agents are also added as part of the Daemonset.
Now, before we conclude one point that I wanted to share again, this is a doc from the Azure Learn
page.
So again, what it states detect vulnerabilities of an Ax regulated cluster for PCI, DSS, PCI, DSS
again is a great compliance.
I spent around 4 to 5 years working to get organizations compliant against.
PCI, DSS and it is a very interesting journey with huge amount of learning.
Now, as part of this, one thing that you see as you are discussing it is detect vulnerabilities of
an Ax regulated cluster.
One of the areas that they discuss over here, in fact let's go to the appropriate pointer here.
So what it states over here.
So this requirement protect all system against malware and regularly update antivirus software or programs.
So what it states here you will have to deploy a anti-malware software of your choice in a daemonsets
that will run in a pod on every node.
So now with the basic understanding of Daemonset, I hope you started to gain understanding about use
cases where this specific feature in Kubernetes can prove to be very useful.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about Daemonset.
In the upcoming video, we are going to cover the practical aspects of this.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - DaemonSet ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to cover the practical aspect of Daemonset.
So primarily we will look into how you can create Daemonset for the use case.
Now similar to other Kubernetes resource, you can just type Daemonset over here and you can go to the
documentation associated with Kubernetes.
Just verify it is an official Kubernetes documentation.
You can open the appropriate one.
And within here associated with Daemonset you will also have the manifest file that is available over
here.
Now again this manifest file is like a complete manifest file with a lot of other features apart from
Daemonset.
Personally, what I would prefer is that if the Kubernetes documentation has a base minimal manifest
file that can just create daemonset without any other features added, like taints tolerations you have
resource limits, etc. this is something that by itself is not really required to create a Daemonset.
So what we are going to do, we are going to look into this file.
Definitely.
And we are also going to look into a custom daemon set manifest file that I have created with bare minimum
fields required for daemon set.
So within our CP labs folder, let's go ahead and open this with Visual Studio Code.
And within here let's go ahead and just create a file called as DS dot YAML.
And I'll just copy the code that is available in the official documentation.
I'll add it over here.
Now as part of this code there are a lot of things.
For example volumes are not really required.
Then the limits are also generally not required.
So you can just trim it down as well.
Then you have the tolerations.
These are also something that is not really required.
All right.
So you have trimmed it down over here.
Now I also have one more file over here called as daemon set hyphen custom.
Again a very similar file.
In fact if you explore both of the files.
They are quite similar.
For example again in the daemon set manifest from the documentation namespace and labels are also not
required.
So let's explore the API version is apps version one kind is daemon set metadata.
This is important so that the daemon set has a name.
In this case it is antivirus.
Then you have the labels that gets added as part of each pod that gets created as part of this.
And you also have a selector.
Now if you have gone through a replica set and the deployment.
Related video.
This concept of label and selector is something that we have discussed there in detail.
So I hope with that this part also becomes clear.
Now overall manifest file is quite simple to understand what we are going to do.
We are going to go ahead and make use of the custom manifest file that I have created, so that we understand
it in an easier way without other topics getting involved over here.
I will also be adding this file as part of the GitHub so that you can reference to it here.
Now from the CLI I'll go ahead and I'll do a cube CTL apply on the daemon set hyphen custom dot YAML.
So within here you have a daemon set that is created.
Now again note that just for simplicity, although I have named this daemon set as antivirus, the image
that we are using is nginx.
But again, depending upon the use case, the image can change accordingly.
Alright, so now when you do a kubectl get daemon set over here, you will see that the desired is three.
Current is three.
And when I do a kubectl get pods, you have three pods that are running.
Now from here you can identify how many worker nodes are present as part of current cluster.
So if I do a kubectl get nodes currently I have three worker nodes that are available.
Now again you don't really need to launch three worker nodes even if you have one worker node.
If you go ahead and create a daemon set, you will see that you only have one pod that is running and
this desired and current will be set to one.
However, just for better clarity, I had decided that I'll have three worker nodes so that it can be
more in tune with how you might see in production environment.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the basics of Daemonset.
Now, before we conclude, one more thing that I wanted to share is that let's say that currently I
have three worker nodes, but tomorrow I remove the worker node two and worker node three.
Now, in case of Daemonset, what would happen is let's assume that there are three pods that are running
across three worker nodes and you have a deployment.
Now if you remove a worker node two and if you remove a worker node three, what will happen?
The worker node one will run total of three pods.
Why?
Because this pod in worker node two and this pod in worker node three are unavailable.
So the control plane will go ahead and create two additional pods in worker node one.
However, in Daemonset that is not the case.
If you remove a worker node two, worker node three, the appropriate pods will be will be terminated.
You will only have one port per worker node.
So let me also quickly show you this so that there is no room for confusion.
So in fact currently I have three worker nodes that are available.
I'll just scale it back to only one worker node over here.
All right.
It can take around 4 to 5 minutes for this to come into effect.
So let's wait for 4 to 5 minutes post, which we'll see on how Daemonset adjusts accordingly.
Great.
So after few minutes let's go ahead and clear the screen.
I'll do a cube CTL get nodes.
You will see that I only have one worker node that is available.
Now when I do kubectl get pods, you will see that there is only one pod that is running.
In a similar way.
When you do cube CTL get daemonset you see the desired and current capacity has been adjusted accordingly.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the practical aspects of Daemonset.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Node Affinity ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about node affinity.
Now one prerequisite for this video is that you need to know about the basics of node selector.
We have already discussed about node selector in the previous videos, so make sure that your concept
is better understood related to that topic before proceeding with node affinity.
Now, one point that we need to note is that in a node selector based approach, it uses a method of
strict equality.
How?
By using the selector to match the appropriate label in the worker node.
For example, in this worker node you have a label of size equals to medium.
So if you want a pod to run on this worker node in the node selector of that pod, you have to ensure
that you add size equal to medium.
And then only the pod will be scheduled here.
Now this is a very basic way of scheduling a pod to a specific node.
However, generally in production environments, when you have hundreds to thousands of worker nodes,
this basic approach of node selector might not always suit such environments.
So in order to have much more flexible option, you have one more feature of node affinity that is available
at an overview.
It is very similar to the node selector, but it is more flexible as well as expressive.
For example, let's say that you have a requirement where you want to run this app a pod in any size
node except micro.
So here you have three nodes that are available micro medium, large.
You want to run this pod in any node except this micro node.
So here what is happening.
Strict equality based condition is not being used that we generally add as part of node selector.
So this specific approach can easily be achieved if you are making use of node affinity.
Now in node affinity there are wide range of operators that are available like you have in, not in,
exist, does not exist, etc. and using this wide range of operators, you can go ahead and tweak the
overall process in which a scheduler can assign a pod to a appropriate worker node.
Now, specifically, whenever we discuss about node affinity.
Note that there are two approaches that you will generally use.
One is by making use of required.
This is like a hard requirement, and second one is using preferred which is a soft requirement.
So let's take an example which states that run a pod in extra large node and in the brackets you have
preferred.
Now if you see preferred is like a soft requirement.
Now if you look into the worker node you have medium, large and micro.
You do not really have a extra large node.
So in such case your pod will still be scheduled, since the approach that is being used is a preferred
and it will be scheduled in the appropriate node over here.
However, in case if you have specified required, then it will not be scheduled unless and until all
the condition matches.
So discussing about these two preferences that we just discussed at a high level overview, the complete
name is required during scheduling.
ignore during execution, and preferred during scheduling.
Ignored during execution.
Now if you look into the description, it will make better sense.
So in case if you are using this specific mode as part of the node affinity, then Pod must be scheduled
on a node that matches the criteria that you use.
If no node matches the overall criteria, pod will not be scheduled.
As we are discussing, this is like a mandatory strict requirement.
The more softer requirement is preferred, where pods prefer to be scheduled on a node that matches
the criteria.
But in case if nodes does not match, the pods will still be scheduled on the available worker node.
So now that we understand it at a very high level overview, let's look into the reference code that
allows us to understand how exactly the node affinity field looks like.
So this is an example of Pod.
And if you see in the pod spec you have the affinity.
You have the node affinity.
Now inside the node affinity you have this required.
And then you use a specific condition.
For example, your key of disk type operator is in values is SSD.
So this label must be present in the worker node for this pod to be scheduled.
And since this is a required it is a strict requirement.
If no worker node matches then this pod will not be scheduled.
Then you have one more reference code screenshot over here which is related to preferred.
Now within here again in the node affinity you have preferred during scheduling.
Ignore during execution.
Again very similar preference over here.
Disk type in SSD.
So as part of this even if worker node does not really have this, still the pod will be scheduled.
Now generally whenever you create a manifest where you have to write this node affinity and related
condition, it is a little confusing because the name, the overall format can lead to a little confusion.
However, in documentation there are plenty of examples that are available, so you don't really need
to worry about memorizing them.
If you understand the basics, things will become much more easier.
So in this specific page of assigning port to nodes, there are multiple approaches like node selector
is the one that we were discussing.
Node affinity is also one of the common one.
And within here you see you have both the examples that are available.
You have the required during scheduling ignore during execution and you have preferred during scheduling
ignored during execution.
And then over here you are matching a key.
The operator that is being used is in and this is the value.
So it is like this is a label that must be present in the worker node over here.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
So then it will become much more easier for us to understand.
Now for today's video I have two files that are available.
One is associated with a required second.
One is associated with preferred.
So let's open this with Visual Studio Code.
So we have two files required and preferred.
First let's go ahead and look into required.
So again a very simple code snippet.
Here you have a simple pod manifest, and in the pod manifest inside the spec you have this node affinity.
Now this part you can directly get from the documentation.
So there is no need to memorize anything.
Just the main important part is to understand this at this stage.
Alright, so let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll quickly open up the terminal.
Now at this stage, if you look into the worker nodes that I have currently, there is only one worker
node that is available.
And if you explore this specific worker node to see what are the labels that are associated with this
worker node.
Let's go a bit up.
These are the base labels that are generally added by the cloud provider environment.
There are no custom labels that are explicitly added here.
Now at this stage as part of the manifest, it is clearly stated that the key is disk type and the value
is SSD operator is in.
So worker node needs to have this key value label as part of the node.
Now, since it is not really present now, if you go ahead and do a cube CTL, apply on the node affinity
hyphen required dot YAML.
And now if you do a kubectl get pods, you see that the pod is in the pending status.
And if you quickly describe this specific port of nginx it clearly states zero out of one nodes are
available.
One node didn't match the pod node affinity selector.
So from here we can easily identify what exactly this means.
So let's also go ahead and quickly delete the pod.
This is one.
The second example that we are going to take is the preferred.
Now again the overall expression that needs to be matched is exactly the same disk type in SSD, very
similar to the required year.
So now let's go ahead and apply that YAML file.
This time the pod is created.
When I do a kubectl get pods.
You see the pod is running successfully even if the selector did not really match the appropriate label.
So once you have tested it, you can go ahead and delete this pod as well.
So let's do one thing.
Just for simplicity, I'll just reapply the required related pod over here.
And we know that this pod will go ahead and it will be in the pending state.
Now let's also do one thing.
Let's also go ahead and apply a label to this node.
So I'll say kubectl label node.
This is the node.
And the label we need is this desc type in SSD.
So let's say disk type equals to SSD.
Once you have added the appropriate label.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods you see the pod is running successfully.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview.
You understood the basics of node affinity.
Now, as we were discussing that this operator over here, the only operator that we had used as part
of initial video is in.
However, there are multiple other operators that are also available.
So if you look into the description of in operator, what it states matches nodes with the specified
label values.
This is easy to understand why because it is very similar to node selector.
You also have note in which says exclude node with specified label values.
So this is also sometimes quite important.
Then you also have a exist that matches the node that have a specified key, regardless of what value
is associated with it.
You also have does not exist and so on.
Now again at this stage we are keeping it very simple.
It is important for us to understand the basics of what node affinity is all about, and also the two
important preferences, the required and the preferred.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basic concept.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Requests and Limits ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about request and limits in Kubernetes.
Now again this is an important topic specifically when it comes to the production environment.
So let's go ahead and understand it.
So first we are going to explore few challenges post which we will be discussing on how this specific
feature allows us to overcome them.
Now the first challenge here states that a specific pod that is scheduled in a worker node can consume
more resources than expected, which will affect all of the other pods that are part of the same node.
So let's assume that you have a pod, you have app B bot, and suddenly you also have a app C pod.
But this pod is consuming a lot of Ram.
It is consuming a lot of CPU as part of the worker node.
Now what the issue will happen is that since this worker node has a finite amount of memory and finite
amount of CPU, if app C pod is consuming most of the Ram and CPU, then app A and app B pod will not
really get enough resources and this will in turn affect the overall production environment.
So ideally this is something that you do not really want.
And this is also one of the common things that you will see in production environments if the requests
and limits are not really set.
Now the second part here states that a pod requires certain amount of memory and computing resource
to run properly.
And this is expected.
So let's assume that app C pod requires 512 MB of Ram and two core CPU to run optimally.
Now, how will you tell Kubernetes that app C pod requires this much amount of Ram and this much amount
of CPU?
And based on this requirement, Kubernetes should schedule the pod accordingly.
Now, in a very simplistic terms, what you can do is you can go ahead and maybe assign a simple label
to the nodes and use the node selector to go ahead and create the pod in the largest node.
But this is something that does not really work well specifically when you have thousands of worker
nodes.
So you need to be able to clearly state the memory as well as the CPU related requirement to Kubernetes.
And Kubernetes can go ahead and look into all of the hundreds or thousands of worker nodes and then
schedule the pod accordingly.
So in order to overcome these two specific challenges that we were discussing, requests and limits
proves to be very useful.
So at a high level overview, using the requests and limits, you can control the amount of resource
that can be assigned to the pod, and also the appropriate node in which a pod can be launched.
For example, you have a request and you have a limit request is more of a guaranteed scenario.
Let's say that your pod really requires 256 MB of Ram to run.
If it does not really get this much amount of memory, it will not really work properly.
So this is part of a guaranteed memory.
So this is what the request is.
Limit is what is the maximum number of memory that a pod can consume.
I know that my pod requires Request 256 MB.
But what happens if it suddenly starts to use a lot of memory in a node?
So in order to control the maximum memory that a pod can use, you make use of limit.
So just for simplicity, I have also added a table here.
So when we discuss about the request, it denotes the minimum amount of CPU or memory a container is
guaranteed to get.
And based on the amount of CPU and memory that you add as part of the request, the Kubernetes will
assign the appropriate node that has enough resources to match the request related constraints.
In a similar way, when we discuss about limits.
Limit determines the maximum amount of CPU or memory that container is allowed to use.
In case if it uses more, then it can be throttled or the container can be killed.
So let's also go ahead and understand on how you can define request and limit as part of the overall
manifest file.
So here we have a simple pod manifest file over here and in the containers here associated with a specific
container.
In this case you have CP labs container.
You have to add a field of resources.
And within here you can specify requests and limits.
Now if you see in request also you add memory and CPU in limits.
Also you add memory and CPU.
So based on this specific manifest file what exactly does it mean.
Let's explore.
Now the first area that we are going to explore is related to the memory part in Request and Limits.
So here you have defined 1 to 8 mebibytes.
So what will happen is when you create the pod, Kubernetes will ensure that whatever worker node this
pod is assigned to has this much amount of minimum memory that is available.
And you also have limits and memory.
Here is 500.
And what exactly this means that this specific pod can use a maximum of this amount of memory.
If it tries to Tries to use more, it can be terminated or throttled.
All right.
So I hope this part is understood.
Now let's go ahead and discuss about the CPU.
You have 0.5 and you have one.
So 0.5 refers to half a CPU core or 50% of a single CPU core.
So again the main concept will remain to be the same as that of memory, where this much amount must
be made available for this part to run.
And similarly, when you discuss about limit here, one basically means that container can use up to
one full CPU core.
All right.
So the overall approach is quite simple.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now for today's video I have a simple file called as request hyphen limit YAML.
And what it does is it creates a simple pod.
Now before we go ahead and implement the request and limit, I wanted to show you a few things.
Now from the CLI, let's go ahead and quickly create a pod through this manifest file.
Once it is done, the next thing that you can check is the nodes.
So when you do a cube CTL get nodes, you can go ahead and copy the node name over here.
Great.
Now within here you see this is the important part that I wanted to show you.
You have a CPU request CPU limit, memory request, memory limit.
Now, I hope from a theoretical point of view, you understood what exactly this means.
Now there are many pods that you see over here.
So you have core DNS and other pods.
These are the pods that are required as part of Kubernetes.
Will ignore that.
As of now we are going to discuss about Pod that we have created, which is CPU pod.
Now for this pod in the CPU request it is zero.
In the CPU limit it is zero.
Memory request is zero.
Memory limit is zero.
So what this means is there is no request and limits that are applied to this pod.
So tomorrow, if this spot suddenly starts to take huge amount of CPU and memory, then all other parts
that are scheduled in the same worker node will be affected.
Alright, so generally in production environment it is recommended that you use the appropriate requests
and limit.
However, before you do that, you should know how much amount of memory and how much amount of CPU
your pod really requires based on the production environment.
Alright.
Now along with that, there are also certain ports that are available where request part is present,
but limit is not really available.
So here you have a request.
So this much amount of CPU must be present in the worker node.
And this much amount of memory must be present in the worker node for the pod to be scheduled.
However, for some you have limits that are not enforced.
For some, you see you have certain limits that are enforced on the set of pods for overall safety.
For other pods here.
Now generally in Google, when you type requests and limit Kubernetes, you will come across the across
the documentation of resource management for pod and containers.
It can happen.
You might come across different page also.
But anyways, I'll be adding the link to this in our GitHub page for you to reference.
Now within here, if you go a bit down in the requests and limits over here, you have a specific manifest
file that will be made available to you.
And the manifest file looks very simple in the container over here.
Now again this is a multi container based pod.
This is the container number one over here.
And this is the container number two.
And for each container you have the CPU and memory related requests and limits that are applied.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So within here since we are applying the requests and limit for this specific container, you can go
ahead and specify in the resources you can specify request.
And within here you can specify memory and you can specify CPU.
All right.
Alright, this is one part.
Now in a similar way, make sure that the requests and limits are aligned.
You have limits inside limits.
Also you have memory and you have CPU.
This is the base.
Now how much amount of CPU, how much amount of memory is something that you can define.
So you will also see some examples over here for reference.
So for request let's say I add a memory of 128 mi and CPU I'll say 0.5.
Now memory I'll say 500 mi and CPU I'll say one.
So this is the maximum amount of consumption that this spot can use.
Once you have defined this, you can save it.
Now let's also go ahead and delete the nginx pod that we have created.
Oops.
Let's quickly verify the pod is running.
It is.
The name is different I'll say kubectl delete pod.
I'll add this name.
All right.
Once this is done, we'll go ahead and recreate the pod from the manifest file.
And you can check using kubectl get pods.
At this stage you see the status is pending.
Now why the status is pending you can say cube CTL describe pod.
And here it clearly says zero out of one nodes are available insufficient CPU.
Now since the issue is related to CPU I'll try and change it to 0.1.
Let's go ahead and delete the pod again.
And now we'll recreate the pod.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods this time you see the pod is running perfectly well.
Along with that, let's also do a kubectl describe node.
So this is the pod that was just created.
And in the CPU request you have this specific one which is 100m.
In this case, since we have defined 0.1, it means the same.
The CPU limit is one.
It has taken from here the memory request is 128 and the memory limit is 500.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the basic about this specific topic.
I have also added a specific slide related to advantages of using requests and limits.
For example, it allows you to prevent any resource starvation so that no single container can consume
all of the resources in a worker node that will in turn affect the other resources as well.
It also ensures fair resource allocation.
It can prevent overprovisioning, and it can also improve the overall stability and performance of your
application, since the requirement for ports are clearly defined.
So once you have completed the practical, make sure to go ahead and delete the port.
Let's do that.
Great.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Priority Class ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the priority class in Kubernetes.
Now one thing that we have to keep a note of is that in Kubernetes, pods can also have priority.
And based on the priority that you assign to a pod, it indicates to the Kubernetes the importance of
that pod in relative to the other pods that are running in the same cluster.
So in such cases, in case if a pod cannot be scheduled, the scheduler tries to preempt, which is
the lower priority pods to make the scheduling of the pending pod possible.
Now let's understand this through the diagram where you have the random pod and you have a critical
pod.
And let's say that you are trying to schedule one more important pod called as production pod into your
cluster.
Now, your cluster can only run two pods at a time.
Now, since this is an important pod manually, what is the pod that you will remove?
Will you remove the random pod so that the production pod can be scheduled?
Or you will remove the critical pod?
And the answer is yes.
manually.
You will remove or delete the random port so that the server has the appropriate capacity for the production
port to be scheduled.
Now, in a similar way, using the priority class, you can assign the priority to the individual port,
and based on the priority, Kubernetes can make the decision to remove the lower priority pods so that
the higher priority pods can be scheduled as part of the cluster.
Now, when we discuss about the advantages of the priority class, there are two important areas that
it influences.
One is the scheduling order.
In this case, the pods that has the higher priority are placed ahead in the scheduling queue.
So this is one part.
The second important area is the preemption.
So in case if the higher priority pods cannot be scheduled due to worker node not having insufficient
resources, then in such case, your scheduler can remove the lower priority pods from your cluster
so that the higher priority pods can be scheduled.
So with this base set, let's go ahead and look into how we can implement it.
Now, the first important object that you will have to create is the priority class object.
So again a very simple manifest file.
The kind is priority class.
The name associated with it is high priority.
And this has a value in this case 1000.
Now this value is important.
We'll be discussing why.
However note that 1000 is not the only value or the maximum value that can be added.
The priority class object can have any 32 bit integer value which is smaller than or equal to 1 billion.
So the possibilities here are quite high.
Now, once you have created this priority class object of higher priority and there is a value that
is assigned to it.
Now whenever you create a pod, you can assign the pod to this high priority class.
So in the second step you will be creating a pod.
And within the pod you can specify the priority class name.
In this case it is high priority.
So this will inform Kubernetes that this is going to be a higher priority pod.
pot, and it should be given priority both at a scheduling level as well as the preemption level.
Now let us understand this through a workflow which will make better sense.
Now there is a worker node.
And this worker node has capacity to run only three pods.
Now initially as part of the deployment there were three pods that were running.
The name of the deployment was low priority deployment.
And if you see there were three pods that were running as part of the worker node, and we know that
this is the maximum capacity of the worker node.
Now at a later stage, we launched one more deployment called as the high priority deployment.
Now at this stage you see the ready status is zero out of three.
Why?
Because the worker node does not have a capacity to schedule this higher priority pods as part of this
deployment.
Now slowly what happened was the Kubernetes started to delete the pod from the lower priority deployment.
So here you see now you have two out of three that are ready and available is two.
Then you have one out of three ready and the available is one, and at a later stage in the lower priority
deployment, you have zero available.
So all of the three ports of the lower priority deployments were removed.
And then once all of the three ports were removed, now the worker node has the required capacity.
So in the higher priority deployment, initially you had one port that got launched.
Then you have two ports that got launched, and then you have three ports that got launched.
And ultimately for the high priority deployment, you have three out of three available.
And for the low priority deployment you have zero out of three available.
All right.
So I hope with this you understand the basics of the priority class from the workflow perspective.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
Then it will make things much more clear.
Now as part of today's practical, one of the first steps that we will be performing is to create two
priority classes.
One is the high priority and second is the low priority.
So if you see the command is simple kubectl create priority class then is the name of the priority class.
Then you assign a value associated with it, and then you can also give a description in case if you
would like.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
Now before you do that you can just run kubectl get priority class within your cluster.
You will see that there are certain priority classes that are available like system, node critical,
and all these are the default ones.
We are not going to touch them.
Now again you don't really have to remember the command.
You can just say kubectl create priority class.
You can run the hyphen hyphen help.
And within here if we go a bit up you see you get the basic examples.
This can help you during the exam time.
So let's go ahead and do that I'll copy the first command.
We'll create the high priority class.
Then I'll copy the second one and we'll create the low priority class.
Now one more important point to note is that what makes this high priority class and what makes this
low priority class, is it the name?
And the answer is no.
It is the value that makes it high priority and low priority.
Higher the value.
Higher the priority.
Lower the value.
Lower the priority.
So since here the value is 1000 and here the value is 100, the 1000 will have higher priority and 100
will have lower priority.
This is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now once the priority classes are available, the next step is to create a deployment.
This is a very simple deployment.
We are calling it as low priority deploy.
The number of replicas is three.
And if you see this is the most important within here we have specified the priority class name as low
priority.
And here we also have certain amount of memory and CPU.
So this part is optimized in a way that the worker node can run around 3 to 4 pods, and not more than
that.
Now in case if you have a worker node with a good amount of CPU and good amount of memory, then this
part might have to be adjusted accordingly.
Or you can adjust the replicas accordingly.
All right.
So this is one point to note.
So what I'm going to do in the CPP labs test folder, I'll quickly open the Visual Studio Code.
And within here let's create a file called as low priority dot YAML.
Let's copy this.
I'll add it over here.
And I'll save this once.
Then let's quickly open up the terminal.
Now from the terminal let's go ahead and quickly create our low priority deployment.
Now once this is done when you do kubectl get pods, at this stage all of our pods are running.
Now as part of the second step, what we are going to do, we are going to create one more deployment
called as low priority deployment.
The aim here is that this deployment has no priority associated with it.
And we are creating replicas of three.
So the reason of this you'll understand in just a moment.
Let's go ahead and quickly create a file.
I'll copy this I'll save this.
And let's go ahead and create the no priority deployment here.
Now, the issue here is that based on the worker node configuration, it can run certain amount of pods.
It cannot run six pods because there's no priority.
Deployment is also based on three replicas and three pods are already running.
So this is the reason why, based on the worker node that I am using, when we do kubectl get pods,
you see all three of the pods of no priority deployment are in the status of pending, because the worker
node itself does not have the appropriate resource to schedule them.
In fact, when you do kubectl describe pods.
Let's do a describe.
You see immediately here we get an error.
In fact let's just bring it a little up.
It says zero out of one nodes available insufficient CPU.
So from here we can clearly identify why the pods are not getting scheduled.
Now when you do kubectl get pods, as we know, these pods are not getting scheduled at all.
So this is the second part.
Once we have verified that the parts that does not have the higher priority are not getting scheduled
because there are already other parts that are running, we'll go ahead and delete these spots.
Great.
Now, as part of the next step, we are going to create another deployment.
However, this deployment will be based on the high priority class.
So if you see the priority class name this time is high priority.
And we have same number of replicas which is three.
So let's go ahead and use that I'll copy this.
Let's create a file.
I'll copy the deployment manifest I'll add it and I'll save this.
Now before we run this from another tab I'll just say kubectl get deployment and I'll watch it.
All right.
So at this stage we know that this low priority deployment has three pods that are actively running.
Let's go ahead and create the high priority deployment.
Once the high priority deployment is available, let's see what is happening here.
So immediately earlier the low priority deployment had three available.
Now when we try to schedule high priority deployment due to the constraints of the worker node, the
ports were not really getting created.
However, now Kubernetes has started to delete the pods associated with the low priority deployment
and at this stage the pods that are available is zero and high priority.
Deployment.
The pods started from one to 2 to 3.
Now if you run the kubectl get pods command, you see that the deployment the pods associated with the
low priority deployment are pending the pods in the high priority deployment, all of them are running.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the basics of the priority class in Kubernetes.
And last step, make sure that you go ahead and delete all of the resources so that you can have the
clean slate for the next practicals.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Multi-Container POD Design Patterns ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So in today's video, we'll be discussing about the Multi-container pod patterns.
Now, one of the first thing that you need to be aware is the sidecar pattern.
So the sidecar pattern is nothing but running multiple containers as part of a pod in a single node.
Now a single pod can contain multiple containers within it.
So this can also be better explained with this diagram over here.
And the similar diagram is used within the official documentation where this circle is a pod and this
pod has two containers.
The first container is the file puller, and the second container is the web server.
And you also have a volume which is being used by both of these containers to share the resources.
All right.
So this kind of a pattern is also referred as a sidecar pattern.
Now, this sidecar pattern can be better explained with this photo over here.
I'm sure many of you might have seen it where you have a scooter over here and this scooty is attached
to a sidecar.
Now, when you move this, both of these together are connected and they'll go together as well.
Similarly, a pod which has multiple containers.
So currently you see you have multiple containers.
So whenever you deploy this pod in any node, they will go together and they are connected with each
other.
So that is also referred as the sidecar pattern.
Now the next thing that you need to know is the ambassador pattern.
Now ambassador pattern is a type of sidecar pattern only where the second container is primarily used
to proxy the request.
Now again, if you see you have a pod over here and this pod has two containers.
Now, this proxy server on the right hand side, it acts as a sidecar.
And the main aim of this is to proxy the request from application server.
So let's say that the application server wants to connect to DB servers.
So what we do, the application server will send a request to the proxy server.
Proxy server in turn sends the request to the DB servers.
So any pattern of sidecar which is primarily used to proxy the request is called as the ambassador pattern.
Now in the sidecar pattern example, we had two containers.
One was file puller and second was web server.
Now let's say you had a web server and a proxy server.
So that kind of architectural pattern, although it is similar to a sidecar, is referred as the ambassador
pattern.
Now the next pattern is called as the adapter pattern.
Now adapter pattern is generally used to transform the application output in order to standardize or
normalize it for the aggregation.
So let's say that you have a container application based on PHP and it is writing the data in a specific
format.
Now what you need is tomorrow you need a different format.
So you want to interchange this fields and also add certain more fields.
So currently you see you have one more field called as PHP that you want to append it at the start.
So if you want to append it, you do not really want to modify your application container for it.
What you can do, you can introduce one more container called as the adapter container and this adapter
containers main job is to transform your logs so any logs with your application container is storing
in a volume.
This logs will be accessed by the adapter container and it will be modified according to the rules that
you had set within the adapter container.
All right.
So you can have various applications like Fluentd, which generally works in this pattern to transform
your logs.
So that's the high level overview about the Multi-container pod design patterns.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Init Containers ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the init containers.
So at a high level overview.
Init containers are the specialized containers that run before the application containers inside a pod.
Now let's understand this with a simple use case where you have a pod and you have a external storage.
And inside the pod you have a app container.
Now this app container is designed to run your application.
Now this application requires certain files that are part of the external storage.
Now for this, what you'll have to do as part of the app container, you'll have to create one more
logic which will first connect to the external storage.
Authenticate to the external storage may be using secrets, using TLS certificates, etc. and then fetch
the appropriate files.
And on top of that files it can go ahead and process the data.
Now the issue here is that apart from your main application, you are also configuring one more small
application or one more small logic that connects to the external storage may be external storage might
be using some different protocol.
So all of the logic you'll have to add as part of your application then authentication related data.
Also you have to add as part of the application and so on.
So this is something that you do not really want.
You want to keep your life simple.
And this is the reason why.
Application container.
You will leave it as it is.
The main focus of the application container is to run the application and that is what it will do.
Now in such cases, you will have one more container called as the init container.
Now this init container can contain all of the necessary logic to connect to the external storage,
authenticate to it, and fetch the appropriate files.
Now, since these are two separate containers in a single pod, you will need to share the data, right?
Because init container, once it fetches the data from an external storage, it has to make it available
for the app container.
So in such cases you can have a shared volume.
It can also be an empty volume since they are part of the single pod.
And then init container can authenticate to the external storage using the appropriate protocol, and
fetch the latest reports from here.
Once it fetches, it will store it inside the shared volume.
And then the application container can go ahead and connect to the data, read it and analyze and process
the data accordingly.
Now this shared volume ideally would be mounted both at a init container level as well as the app container
level as part of the pods.
All right.
So this is the basic high level overview about the init containers.
Now when we look into the workflow it would look something similar to this.
So you have a Kubelet and you have the actual app container.
Now when init container is configured the Kubelet will first go ahead and start the init container.
It will wait for whatever task the init container was configured for.
It will ensure that it runs to completion.
Then you have one more init container.
It will also start it.
It will run to completion.
Once that is done then it will start the actual app container.
All right.
So this is the high level workflow.
Now before we start the practical few important pointers we have to keep a note of.
First one is that init containers are very similar to the regular containers that you add as part of
the podspec, except first one is that init containers always run to completion, so the logic that
you add as part of the init containers needs to be completed.
Second is each init container must complete successfully before the next one starts, so a single pod
can have multiple set of init containers based on the requirement.
And the last important pointer is that in case if a pods init container fails, the kubelet will repeatedly
restart that init container until it succeeds again.
This depends upon the restart policy.
If you're using the default restart policy, which is always this is the behavior.
So with this we set.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now when you look into the documentation associated with the init containers you will also see the basic
manifest file.
For example, this is the manifest file.
Again a very simple one.
You have a simple pod spec over here.
This is the main container is what will assume this is the main container.
And then you can specify init containers.
So here you have containers.
And here you have init containers.
You have the name.
You have the image.
You have the command.
So everything remains to be the same.
Only this part the containers is renamed to init containers.
And also the behavior is changed accordingly.
Let's go ahead and try it out to understand how it works.
So for today's practical, I already have the init container manifest file that is available again a
very simple one.
First, let's go ahead and quickly create a file called as init dot YAML within our folder.
I'll open it up with vs code will create a file called as init dot YAML.
I'll copy the manifest and I'll save this.
Now if you see this is very simple as part of this pod.
This is the main application container which is based on the nginx image.
And then you have two init containers defined.
First container name is check Google.
Again a very simple logic.
We have added what it does.
It will ping Google ten times.
Once this init container completes then you have one more init container called as check Kubernetes.
It makes a curl request to kubernetes.io.
And once both of these init container completes, then you have the actual app container that will begin
its operation.
So let's go ahead and save this.
Now from the terminal we'll go ahead and we'll create the pod.
Now when you do kubectl get pods you will see that the status at this stage is init zero out of two.
Now in fact let's do kubectl get pods with watch.
Now you see init is one out of two.
And then at a later stage the pod is initializing.
So let's do a control c.
Let's do kubectl get pods.
You see, this time the pod is running.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and delete the pod that we have created.
This time, what we are going to do, we are going to make some typo, because we know this is going
to error out because no such command exists.
All right.
Now when you do kubectl create on the init again the first part is the init.
So at this stage we have init zero out of two.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll run it again.
And this time you see we are getting error.
Init run container error.
So when you do kubectl logs my app hyphen pod.
So within here you'll clearly see that your application container is waiting to start.
It is in the pod initializing stage.
However, since the init container has not completed its operation, this is something that will not
start.
So again when you do kubectl get pods again, we have the same issue.
However, you see the restarts are happening, so Kubernetes is trying to restart to see if the init
containers can be completed.
Now when you do kubectl describe pod.
Now within here you'll get the exact issue.
So if you see failed to create container task it is showing that process exec curl xsd executable file
not found.
And it is also showing you where exactly the issue lies.
It is as part of the container call as check Kubernetes.
So once you have completed the practical, you can just go ahead and delete the init container based
pod.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the importance of init container.
Now again for today's video, we took a very simple example of ping and curl.
Generally in production environments, you will have a detailed initialization logic that will configure
the appropriate environment and files that your application container would require.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Kubernetes Service ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a very important topic in Kubernetes which is service.
Service is one of the common things that you will be implementing as part of the production environments.
So it is important for us to understand this topic in detail with full attention.
So with this, let's get started.
Now before we discuss about service, few pointers that we have to keep a note of.
First one is that whenever you create a pod in the Kubernetes cluster, the pod gets scheduled in the
appropriate worker node.
And it also has its own set of private IP address associated with it.
And the second point to note is that the pods that are part of the same cluster can communicate with
each other using these set of private IP.
So let's understand this with a simple diagram where you have a worker node and you have a front end
pod.
This front end pod, when it gets created it will have its own set of private IP address.
And then you have a back end pod.
Back end pod will also have its own set of private IP address.
Now let's assume that both of them are part of the same Kubernetes cluster.
Then both of them will be able to communicate with each other using the private IP address.
Let me also quickly show you a small demo so that this concept is understood.
Before we proceed further.
Now for today's demo, I have certain ports that are available.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods, you will see that these are the pods that are in the running state.
Now if you'd also like to see what are the IP addresses associated with the pod.
You can say kubectl get pods with the output of wide.
When you do a wide this is the one that we are interested in which is the IP address.
These are the private IP address that gets assigned to the pod.
Now similar to the diagram as we were discussing, generally, even in real world environment you will
have some kind of a front end.
And front end will receive the request from the client, and it will forward it to the back end pod
in a similar way.
Even in this diagram, we have a front end port.
We have a back end port.
And since both of them have a private IP and they are part of the same cluster, they will be able to
communicate using private IP.
So now let's do one thing.
I'll copy one of the private IP address of the back end port over here.
And we'll connect to the front end port and we'll see on how the connection works.
So let's quickly connect to the front end port.
Now again note that this is a demo video.
Aim is to understand the concept.
So if I quickly connect to the front end port over here and from the front end port, if I do a curl
request on the IP address of the backend port one, you see we are receiving a response.
Similarly, when we try to connect the IP address of the back end port number two, you see we are getting
the response accordingly.
Now, discussing about a common use case that you will also see in organization, where you will have
a front end port and this front end port, or maybe front end service needs to communicate with the
back end service.
Now let's assume that the IP address of back end port is ten 2440.5.
Now, since the communication needs to happen from front end to back end, and if you hardcode the IP
address of the backend port in the front end port configuration, it will work, but in the longer term
it will create issue.
For example, let's say in the configuration file of the application running in front end port, you
specify backend is this specific IP, so it will forward the request to the backend port.
Everything will work perfectly well.
But let's assume that after two months this backend port is having some issues.
So Kubernetes removed this specific backend port.
It deleted this backend port, and in a worker node to a new backend port got created.
So now what will happen?
Any request that goes to the front end port will fail.
Why?
Because front end port is trying to send the request to the backend port with the IP address that does
not really exist.
So now you'll have to update the Update the configuration of the front end pod with the newer IP address
of the backend pods.
So these pods are generally ephemeral, and you should never hardcode the IP address in the configuration
files.
Along with that, one more common challenge that you will see in organizations is that the pods generally
run as part of deployment.
So if you see over here, you have multiple set of back end pods that are running as part of the deployment.
And in this specific diagram you have three pods.
But if you have a large production website, it can be hundreds of pods that would be running in a deployment.
So again, if you are trying to hardcode the IP address of all of the pods as part of the deployment
in the configuration of the front end pod, this is something that is not really practical.
So this is one challenge.
Second challenge as we know deployment can go ahead and create new pods removing the previous pods that
are not working.
So this IP address they regularly keep on changing.
So hard coding is out of the question.
Along with that, you also want the front end pod to go ahead and distribute the request across the
back end pod.
You do not want front end pod to send 100% of the request to back end one pod, so the request should
also be equally distributed.
So this kind of logic must also be present in the application that is running in the front end pod.
So in order to overcome these set of challenges, as well as many other challenges in Kubernetes, you
have a feature of service.
So at a high level overview service acts as a gateway that distributes the incoming traffic between
its endpoints.
So now what will happen is since it acts as a gateway between a front end pod and the back end pod,
there is one more layer of service that comes into picture.
Now this service is very good with wide set of features like it can distribute the traffic across all
of these pods.
It can fetch the latest pods that are running as part of deployments, Etc..
So now, since this service has come into picture, all that front end pod has to do is that it needs
to send a request to the service, and service will take care of everything.
So ultimately, in the configuration file of the front end pod, you have to specify the backend which
is service dot internal so that the traffic goes to the service and let service take care of the rest.
Alright, so let's do one thing before we proceed further, let's go ahead and have a small demonstration
that explains this specific pointer post, which we'll be discussing about other areas.
Now from the terminal, if I quickly do a kubectl get pods, as we know that we have three pods that
are available.
One is the front end pod, and we have the two back end pods that are currently available.
Now at this stage, let's do one thing.
First.
Let's go ahead and quickly connect to the front end pod.
In fact, before we do that, before we do that, let's do a kubectl get pods with the output of white
so that we can see the IP address.
And then we'll go ahead and quickly connect to the front end port over here.
Now as we know that the front end needs to communicate with the back end port.
So generally when a client makes a request to the website, it will go to the front end service and
front end service behind the scenes.
It will make the request to the back end service.
Now in this case, since there are two back end pods that are running, the front end service needs
to have a logic that it should send requests to both of the back end pods over here.
If it sends a request to only one back end pod 100% of the time, this pod will be overloaded with requests.
So you do not really want that as well.
So theoretically, the first request that comes to the front end pod should be forwarded to this specific
IP address.
The second request that comes to the front end pod should go to this specific IP address.
Now along with that, as we know that these spots are ephemeral.
Today they are working.
Tomorrow it might not be working.
There is a new backend port that might be created through deployment.
So this IP address, if they are hardcoded, is a big no no.
Now as we know the solution to this is a service.
Now for today's demo I have a service that is already created.
The name of the service is KP Lab Service and this is the IP address of that service.
Now as we were discussing that all that the frontend port needs to do is it needs to send the request
to the service.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's clear the screen.
I'll do a curl and I'll send the IP address to the service IP 5.215.
This is also 5.215.
Now if I press enter you see it went to backend port one.
Now again if I make a request it went to backend port two.
Backend port one.
Backend port part two.
Back end, part two.
So this is how the request gets distributed across all of the pods that are running.
Similar to what we see.
And because of this distribution of the request.
No one pod gets overloaded with all of the requests that front end receives.
Alright, so I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of gateway.
Not only it acts as a centralized point to receive the request, but it will also load balance the requests
that it forwards to among multiple set of pods.
Now, the second pointer that we have to keep a note is related to service and deployments.
As we know, generally in production environments, pods run as part of deployments.
If they are running as part of deployments, deployment can create and destroy the pods dynamically.
So in such cases, it is important for the service to find the latest set of pods to route the traffic
accordingly.
For example, let's say that there is a back end pod three that is currently available, but the worker
node in which the back end pod three was running is not responding.
So deployment will go ahead and remove it.
So now service is intelligent enough to know that the back end.
Pod three has been removed.
So all of the requests that it will send will only be to the running pods.
It will not go to the pods which have been removed.
All right.
This is also one concept that I wanted to show you.
Now, just for simplicity.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to create one more back end pod over here.
So I'll say cube CTL run back end pod three from the image of nginx.
And we'll also add a label of type equals to say web server.
You can have any other label.
In fact it should be labels.
All right.
So this does not really matter.
Now from the front end pod you don't really need to worry on how many back end pods are added.
How many of them are removed.
So when you send a request to the service IP this time you see you are getting a little different page
which is welcome to nginx.
Why you are getting this specific page.
Because the request was sent to this specific backend port number three.
Similarly, if you make subsequent other requests it goes to backend pod one.
Backend pod two.
And now if you make another third request, it went to the backend pod three which has a little different
website as of now.
Great.
So I hope with this practical examples, you understood in more better terms what this specific feature
of service allows us to do.
And this is of great benefit in production environments.
Now, along with that few more pointers that I wanted to share, one very important pointer is that
by making use of service, users that are outside of the Kubernetes cluster can also connect to the
ports that are internal to the cluster.
And this is very important because ultimately let's say you have a port.
That has the website based HTML contents.
Now this website needs to be accessed by all of the users across the internet.
You do not really want only the internal port communication to happen.
So in such case, when you want to expose a port to the internet, this is also where service comes
into picture.
So for this specific demo, I also have one more service that is created over here.
If you see and this service has an external IP.
So if I copy this IP and in the web browser, when I add this IP address, you see it went to the back
end port one.
Now if I refresh it went to back end port two.
And if I refresh again you see it went to the back end port number three which has a different website
which says Welcome to Nginx.
Alright.
So this is also one of the very common use cases where organization makes use of service.
So before we conclude, let's revise the benefits that service offers.
First one, as we know that pods are ephemeral and their IP can change because they can be created and
removed.
So you need to have a stable endpoint.
And services provides exactly that.
Second, as we know, services also distribute traffic across multiple pods.
You don't really need to worry on that.
And third very important point is that it enables us to expose the application to external traffic like
internet.
Now when we discuss about service, there are multiple types of service that are available in Kubernetes,
each for a specific set of use case.
Now, in today's video, we are not going to explore all of the service types.
In the upcoming video, we are going to have a separate video associated with each service type so that
we understand this topic in great detail.
All right.
So that's a high level overview about the basics of service.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Service and Endpoints ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and understand about the basics of service and endpoints
from a practical point of view.
So at this stage, we already know that service acts as a gateway that distributes the incoming traffic
between the endpoints.
So when you send a request to the service, whatever endpoints that are associated with the service,
the traffic will be distributed between them.
And endpoints are nothing but the entity that contains the address of the underlying port to which the
service will route the traffic to.
So basically, whenever you create a service, this service will also have its associated endpoints.
So this is how the service knows that when it receives a request from a client, it needs to forward
it to these ports.
So these ports are basically associated with the endpoints in terms of the IP address.
So the endpoints part keeps on changing.
So if back end port two is removed back end port three gets added.
Then ultimately in the endpoints the IP address of the backend to pod will be removed and the backend
pod three will be added automatically.
So in today's video, we are going to keep it very simple where we are going to create a service and
we are going to manually create an endpoint and we are going to look into the complete workflow.
So the architecture of today's video is going to look something similar to the diagram where you have
a front end pod, you have a back end pod.
And between them you will have a service.
And then we will see on how when front end pod makes a request to the service, service will in turn
make a request to the back end pod and the response will be given back to the front end pod.
So let's do one thing before we go ahead and explore the component of service.
From a practical point of view, let's first create a front end pod and a back end pod.
Now from the terminal first let's go ahead and create a back end pod over here.
This will create from the image of nginx.
Similarly, we will also create a front end pod.
This will be using from the image of ubuntu, because we want a curl to manually test the entire workflow.
Alright, since it is a ubuntu, we'll just provide a command of, say sleep so that it keeps on running.
So when you do a kubectl get pods, both of the pods are running.
And let's first do one thing.
Let's first connect to the front end pod.
And within here just verify if curl is present or not.
If curl is not present then we'll go ahead and manually install the curl utility.
Great.
So once this is done, let's do one thing from a second terminal tab.
Let's go ahead and fetch the IP address of the back end pod.
So I'll do a kubectl get pods with the output of wide.
So this is the back end pod.
We need to fetch the IP address.
At this stage, we are first going to test the communication between front end and back end pod, and
then we'll introduce the service.
So when you do a curl to the back end pod IP address you should see this.
Welcome to nginx page.
Great.
Now at this stage we have already discussed the disadvantage of direct communication between front end
pod to the back end pod.
First primary disadvantage is related to hardcoding the IP address because the pods are ephemeral.
So now we are going to understand the practical workflow of creating the service.
Now for this, there are two important steps that we need to take.
In the first step, we are going to create a very simple service in Kubernetes.
Now whenever you create a service, this service will also have its own IP address.
So you see in the IP address you have a service IP address over here.
So before we do the step number two let's complete this specific step.
Now for today's practical I have two manifest files that are available.
Let's go ahead and open this with VS VSCode.
So first let's go ahead and explore the service manifest file.
Again a very simple manifest file.
The kind is service.
The name of the service is simple service.
And in the port we have 80 and 80.
We'll look into this in just a moment.
First let's go ahead and create a service.
So let's go ahead and quickly go to the labs folder.
And I'll quickly create a service from the manifest file.
Now again the code is there in GitHub for you to reference.
Once the service is created, when you do a cube CTL get service.
You see our simple service is created and this service also has its own IP address over here.
So what does that IP address mean?
It means that whenever a frontend pod wants to communicate to the service, it needs to connect through
that specific IP address.
Alright, I hope with this you understood this part.
The next important part is the endpoints.
So when you quickly describe this specific service of simple service, the IP address part we already
know.
Now the next very important part is the end point.
At this stage it says end point is none.
Now in the initial slide we discussed that service.
When it receives a request it will forward that request to the appropriate backends.
So these backends are nothing but the endpoints.
Now at this stage, since the endpoints are none, whenever a frontend pod makes a request to the service,
will it give a response back?
Let's look into it.
So let's do a curl.
This time we'll copy the IP address of the service, which is this specific one.
This is also the same IP when we send a request to this specific IP address.
You see we are not really getting a response back.
And I hope you know why.
So I'll do a Ctrl C.
So the step number two is where we are going to manually add the endpoints associated with the service
based on the back end pod that is created.
All right.
So this is the step number two where associated with a service there has to be an endpoint which is
nothing but the IP address of the back end pod.
Now again from production point of view you don't really need to hard code it.
The service has the feature to automatically fetch the IP address of the back end pods that we are going
to discuss at a later stage.
But first, we need to understand the step by step example based on manual approach.
This will give us solid understanding about the basic before we proceed into the detail aspects.
Great.
So now let's go ahead and look into how you can add the endpoints.
Now for this I have one more manifest file called as endpoints dot YAML.
Very simple manifest file.
You see the kind is endpoints.
The name here is same as the service name which is simple service.
And in this endpoints you have the IP address of the back end pod.
So in our case, let's verify what was the IP address of the backend port.
So the IP address of the backend port is this.
So I am going to hardcode it over here and I'll save this.
Now once you understand the basic structure then in the upcoming videos we'll see on how service can
automatically fetch the IP address.
So you don't really have to manually create it.
Now once you have done that let's go ahead and also create the endpoints.
Once the endpoint is created.
Now when you go ahead and do a kubectl describe service you see automatically one more endpoint is added
over here which is this specific IP.
So what does this mean.
Whenever a service gets a request on the service IP it will forward that request to the endpoint IP
over here.
So now similar scenario when we do a curl on the service IP address, you see it is working perfectly
well as soon as the endpoints have been added now.
Note that it is not necessary to only have one endpoint in the endpoint.
You can have the IP address of ten pods.
In such cases, service will load balance the requests that it receives across all of the ten pods.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you is this specific part, which is port 80 and target port
80.
Now for this demonstration, let's go ahead and first remove our service.
So whatever service that we had created we'll go ahead and delete it.
Now before we do that let's see one more thing.
So when you do a cube CTL get endpoints over here.
We know we had manually created this specific endpoints associated with the service.
However whenever you delete a service the associated endpoints over here will also be removed.
All right you see now the endpoint is removed.
So you don't have to manually delete the endpoints manifest that we had created.
It will give you an error as we know the endpoints get associated with the service, so Kubernetes will
remove them.
Now the next point to experiment is the port and the target port.
For simplicity, let's change the port to 8080 and the target port will remain to be the same.
So now what we are going to do, we will recreate the service and we'll recreate the endpoints.
All right.
Once.
Then you can just do a kubectl describe service followed by simple service so that you can verify if
endpoints are added successfully.
And then here you see the port is 8080.
The target port is 80.
So now what this means is that when a front end port makes a request to the service on port 8080, then
that request will be sent to the back end ports IP address on port 80.
So this part becomes the port.
This part becomes the target port.
Let's try it out.
So I'll copy the IP address of the service.
And when you do a curl on this specific IP address, you see you are not really getting a response back.
As we know the port year is 8080.
So the service is listening on this specific port.
So you have to make sure that whatever requests that you send, you send it to the port of 8080.
And once you send it to the port of 8080, then service behind the scenes will send that request to
this specific endpoint IP address on the port of 80.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the port of 8080 and the target port of 80.
Great.
So that's a high level workflow about the service and its endpoints.
I hope with this you have started to understand the benefits of service in the upcoming videos.
We are going to go ahead and discuss about this in great detail.
So till that make sure that your basic concept is understood that we discuss as part of today's video.

--- Using Selector to Register Service Endpoints ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss on how we can use selector for registering the service
endpoints.
Now before we do that, one point that we need to note is that when you go through a very simple manual
based workflow to create a service, there are two steps.
First is you just create a simple service without any endpoints, and after you create a service, then
you can go ahead and manually add the appropriate endpoints that contains the IP address of the back
end port and associate it with your service.
So it will look something similar to this.
So first you go ahead and create a simple service.
You see this service does not really have any endpoints.
And once your basic service is created then you create an endpoint.
This endpoint contains the IP address that will be registered as the service endpoints.
So after both of these steps are completed, whenever a request is made to this simple service, that
request will be forwarded to this specific IP address.
Now, the issue with this specific approach, as we know, is that hard coding is required.
And in an environment where deployments are used.
When new pods come up every other day, the older pods get removed.
This manual hardcoding of IP address as the service endpoint is not really suitable.
So in such approach, there is one more better way of using selectors that works pretty well.
So in this approach, what happens is instead of hard coding the endpoints, you use the appropriate
selector.
So for example in this service manifest you have added a selector.
And what is the selector app equals to back end.
So now all of the pods that has this appropriate label the IP address of the pods will be registered
as the service endpoints.
For example if you have these two back end pods then this will be added as a service endpoint only and
only if it has the appropriate label of app as back end.
If it has a different label, it will not be added as the service endpoint.
And this is one of the quick ways in which you can add multiple set of pods as part of the service endpoints.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
Now for today's practical I have a very simple service manifest file that is available.
Let's in fact open this with VS code.
Now if you look into the service manifest it's a very simple manifest.
You are creating a simple service.
You have a port and a target port.
Now at this stage, whenever we go ahead and create a service from this specific manifest, we know
that the service will be created.
But when you describe this specific service.
This service will not really have a endpoints.
So what you will need to do, you have to go ahead and create the appropriate endpoints.
At this stage there are no endpoints.
So you have to create a endpoints so that this service knows where exactly the request needs to be forwarded
to.
So that is a very basic approach.
Now we are going to go ahead and take a step further and use the appropriate selector.
So let's go ahead and edit.
The configuration is very simple.
You create a selector and then you say app as backend.
All right I'll save this.
Let's also go ahead and delete this service that we have created.
And now we'll go ahead and we'll recreate the service.
Now at this stage when you do a kubectl describe service in the selector here you see it says app equals
to backend.
However at this stage end points is none.
Why?
Because there are no pods that are running that has this specific labels.
So when you do a kubectl get pods you see there are no pods that are available with this labels.
So now let's go ahead and create two pods.
I'll say kubectl run back end pod one with the image of nginx.
In a similar way we'll create one more pod back end pod two with the image of nginx.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods with show labels, this pods have a different label and not the label
of app equals to back end.
And this is the reason why when you do a kubectl describe service Again, there are no end points that
are associated with it.
However, let's go ahead and add a label.
So I'll say cube CTL label pod back end pod one.
And what is the label that we want to add app as back end.
Once this pod is labeled, when you do a describe service, automatically you see one IP address got
added in a similar way.
Let's add one more label to the back end pod two.
And now when you do a cube CTL describe service.
This time you see you have two IP address.
This is one IP.
This is second IP.
And in a similar way if you want to verify if these are actually the pod ips, you can say kubectl get
pods with the output of wide.
So you have two IP 0.280.32.
And same you will see 0.280.32.
Now just for demo let's go ahead and remove the label of one of the pods.
So I'll say cube CTL label pod the name of pod of say back end.
Let's fix the name back end pod two and will remove the app label.
All right.
Now, in fact, before we do that we'll do kubectl get pods.
We'll do show labels.
At this stage you see they have a label of app equals to backend.
And this is the reason why they got registered as part of the endpoints.
Now let's remove this specific label.
All right I'll say kubectl label pod backend pod two.
And we'll remove this app label.
Now when you do kubectl get pods show label.
The app label has been removed.
And we know that if app label has been removed from pod number two, then this specific 0.32 will automatically
be de-registered from the endpoints.
So when you do kubectl describe service again you see it has automatically been removed.
So this specific approach of using selector is much more better approach as it takes care of the dynamic
environment that you will see in Kubernetes, specifically when you have replica sets, deployments
that are being used quite extensively.
So that's about it for today's video and I'll see you in the next video.

--- Service Type - ClusterIP ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a specific service type of cluster IP.
Now one point that we need to note, and in fact we have discussed about this in the introductory video
also, which states that there are multiple set of service types that are available in Kubernetes like
cluster, IP node, port load balancer, etc..
So in today's video we are going to discuss about the first one which is the cluster IP.
Now at this stage, we already know the basic architecture of a service where this service acts as a
gateway and it forwards the request to appropriate set of endpoints.
Now when this service is of type cluster IP, it means that it is an internal service.
So this type of service provides a stable IP addresses that works only within your Kubernetes cluster
primarily.
Why?
Because the IP address that is associated with a service is an internal IP address.
So that means that if a external user tries to communicate with the service, this will not really work.
However, any other pods that are part of the same Kubernetes cluster.
They will be able to connect to the service on its internal IP.
Now, one more point to note is that whenever you create a service, for example, here you are creating
a service and you have not really defined the type of service.
So in such case, cluster IP is the default service type that will be taken by Kubernetes.
This is one important point to note.
So behind the scenes when you apply this manifest file, when you look into the service that gets created,
the type you will see is of cluster IP.
And as we were discussing that this cluster IP has a internal IP address.
So this is the internal IP address.
So all of the pods within the cluster will be able to connect to it.
And there is no external IP associated with this specific service.
So with this base set let's go ahead and try it out.
Now for today's video I have a very simple service manifest file available.
The name of the service is Simple Service.
Now in this service, as we have discussed, we have not explicitly specified a cluster IP service type
or any other service type.
In such case, whenever you go ahead and create a service from this manifest file, and when you do
a kubectl get service, you see automatically this service has a type of cluster IP and cluster IP as
we know it is an internal IP.
So this is one part that we need to note.
The second part here is that you can also go ahead and create service through the CLI.
So you don't really need the manifest file.
So when you do a cube CTL create service hyphen hyphen help.
You will see that you have available commands related to cluster IP.
External name load balancer and node port.
So these are the service types that we saw in the table.
And depending upon which service type you want to create a service on you can use the available commands.
For example let's say that I want to create a cluster IP based service.
So now what you can do you can clear the screen.
You can say cube CTL create service cluster IP and then you can use hyphen hyphen help.
So now specific to creation of cluster IP you will get the help page and the example.
Now the overall command is very simple.
All you will do is cube CTL create service cluster IP the name of the service.
And you can specify hyphen.
Hyphen TCP equals to these two ports over here.
Now what are these ports.
These ports.
You can get the information from here.
You see this is a port and this is a target port.
In fact in the manifest file also when you create a service you define a port and you define a target
port.
So this is something that you can define.
And this is the basic example.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll say cube CTL create service.
The type of service which is cluster IP the name of service.
Let's just call it as test service.
Then you can specify the port and the target port.
Let's press enter.
So service is created when you do a kubectl get service.
You see our test service is created.
And this test service also has a specific cluster IP.
Along with that you can also go ahead and generate the manifest file.
So you can say dry run equals to client with the output of YAML.
And this will go ahead and create the basic service manifest file for your reference.
Now before we conclude a few points to note.
First one is that the cluster IP service gets a virtual IP address, also called as the cluster IP,
which is this specific one.
And this is not really a dynamic IP.
So it's not that it will change after a few weeks.
So this IP will remain stable as long as the service exists.
This is one part to note.
And this IP can be used by other ports inside the cluster to access the service.
This is something that we have already discussed.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the cluster IP service.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Service Type - NodePort ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video at the overview, we are going to discuss about the importance of service type of node
port.
Now one point that we need to keep a note is that node port is one of the service types that is available
that allows us to expose our application to the external world.
So this external world can also mean internet.
For example, when you create a base service based on cluster IP, you cannot access that service from
the internet because it has the internal IP only.
So in case if you want someone from the external world like the internet, who wants to connect and
open the website that is hosted in Kubernetes cluster, in such case, you need to explore other service
types.
One of the common one used is node port.
Now, before we explore it from a demo perspective, let's also look into a high level overview on how
exactly this specific service works.
Now, whenever you create a service of type node port, Kubernetes will assign a port from a node port
range.
So this is the range and this port will get assigned on all of the nodes in the cluster, which are
the worker nodes.
For example, you have a worker node.
Over here you have a external user.
So whenever you create a node port service, there will be a node port that will be assigned on every
worker node.
So now what external user needs to do.
External user needs to send a traffic to the worker node IP which should be a public IP if it is the
internet followed by the node port.
So when a request is made to the worker node public IP followed by the node port, then the request
is automatically forwarded to the appropriate service, and service will in turn forward it to the back
end ports.
All right.
So this specific part that you see where a port is open on all of the worker node.
This specific part is a node port.
And this allows the external communication including the communication over the internet.
So let's go ahead and look into how exactly it looks like.
Now for today's demo I already have a node port that is configured when you do a cube CTL get service.
This time you see I have one more service that is available.
The type here is node port.
Now this node port service also has a cluster IP that is available for internal communication.
But along with that you also have a node port that is assigned.
So when you do a cube CTL describe service node port service, you will see that in the node port this
is a node port that is assigned.
So for all of the worker node the node port will be opened.
All right.
And you also have an end point over here.
Now let me also quickly show you.
So if I do a kubectl get pods with O of wide you have two pods running back end port and front end port.
So this IP 0.6 is associated with the back end port.
So whenever someone connects to this specific service the request will go to the back end pod.
Now at this stage we learned that in order for the entire workflow to work, the traffic from the external
network needs to go to the node IP, which is the worker node IP followed by the node port.
So in such cases when you do a cube CTL get nodes.
You see I have one node that is currently available.
Now if you want to fetch the details associated with the node right, you want the worker node IP address.
So you can say cube CTL.
Get nodes with the output of WYD.
So now what will happen is you get the public IP associated with this worker node.
And this IP is what we are interested in.
So when I copy this IP so ultimately from the internet you can make a curl request to the public IP
of the worker node followed by the node port.
So in fact let's also get the node port I'll say cube CTL get service.
What was the node port.
Node port was this.
So when you make a request you see we are getting the response which is welcome to nginx.
In fact you can also do it from the browser.
So from here, when I type this you see we are getting welcome to nginx page.
This is one part.
The next part that I wanted to show you as we are discussing Nodeport service, although it allows the
communication from external network, but this service also has a cluster IP associated with it.
So the pods that are internal to the cluster, they can directly connect using the cluster IP.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So when you do a kubectl get pods you see I have a back end port and I have a front end port.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to the front end port.
And now from the front end pod I'll make a request to the cluster IP.
I'll clear the screen.
Now when I make a request to the cluster IP here also, you see we are getting the same page.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the importance of the service type of
nodeport.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Temporary Lecture - Launch K8s Cluster for NodePort ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now before we go ahead and implement the node port service, practically one point that I wanted to
share is that currently in a managed Kubernetes cluster, there are some issues.
There are some bugs.
So the cluster that you launch manually from the console, this clusters will not really work pretty
well with node port service.
Now I also got it confirmed from the DigitalOcean support team, and the alternative that they have
provided is to go ahead and use the TL, which is the CLI command, and configure a Kubernetes cluster.
Now, when you go ahead and launch a Kubernetes cluster from the CLI, this cluster will work perfectly
well with the node port service.
Alright, so this is the approach till this specific issue gets fixed.
Once the issue gets fixed, this specific video will be removed and you can directly start with the
practical video.
So now in order to configure a Kubernetes cluster through CLI you will need this doc TL.
Now you can go ahead and install it in Mac OS, macOS, Linux, etc. separately.
What we are going to do, we are going to make use of a standardized approach where we will create a
ubuntu based server in DigitalOcean, and we are going to install this specific tool, and then we are
going to make use of this tool to configure the Kubernetes cluster.
So just to revise Docker is basically the command line interface for DigitalOcean.
So first when we explore how you can install the dock there are multiple approaches.
For example, if you are using Mac OS, you can directly use this command to do that.
If you are using windows, you see this is a little lengthier approach that has been shown over here.
If you are using Linux again, you have a simple approach over here.
Now what I'm going to do, I'm not really going to show windows approach because not everyone uses windows,
right?
So I am going to show the Linux based approach so that everyone can try.
If you are using Mac OS, you can just install it here as well.
Anyways.
So just for simplicity, I'll create a small server in DigitalOcean temporarily to install this.
It will be based on ubuntu.
We'll use the cheapest option.
And let's just call it as doctor.
And we'll create a droplet.
Now once the server is up you will get the IP address.
You can go ahead and connect to the server.
If you have used the password authentication you can directly specify router IP.
If you have used a key based authentication, then you will also have to supply a key before you add
the user at the right IP address.
All right so I'm connected.
So I am going to use this specific approach of Linux.
So let's copy this.
So this will go ahead and download this specific file.
So now we have to uncompress it.
So this is the uncompressed command.
Oops.
Looks like we did not copy the entire command.
Let's use this.
So now if I do a ls, this is the main binary.
So now we'll just move this binary to say usr local bin.
All right.
And now when I type dot dl you get the basic interface.
So this means things are installed correctly.
Now the next step is to go ahead and get the API token.
Because we want this specific utility to create a Kubernetes cluster in our DigitalOcean account.
So for this we need to have a API token.
So for example in DigitalOcean you have this API.
You can click over here you can generate a token.
Token name.
Let's just call it as temp dot dl.
Expiration will say 30 days and we'll give it full access.
And I'll generate a token.
Now note that this token needs to be kept safe.
This is a very important token and it will grant full access to your DigitalOcean account.
So I'll click on Generate Token.
So this is the token that is created.
So let's clear the screen.
So I'll say doc ctl auth init.
It is asking for the token.
So I'll copy the token.
I'll add it over here.
So after the validation is completed now things are good.
You are ready to go ahead and use the Doc trail command to create a Kubernetes cluster.
Now I already have the command that will create a Kubernetes cluster for us.
It's very simple.
Doc Kubernetes cluster create.
This is the name of cluster.
It will be created in the Bangalore one region and count is one.
So once you go ahead and press enter it will create the Kubernetes cluster.
For us.
It takes a little amount of time.
So at this stage cluster is provisioning.
In fact you can also look into it.
For example if you go to Kubernetes you see one more Kubernetes cluster is getting created.
So in fact, let's do one thing.
Let's wait for the cluster to be created post, which will also do the appropriate kubeconfig file related
configuration to get ready for the Nodeport based practical video.
Alright, so our Kubernetes cluster is created.
You can also verify.
In fact you can just refresh this page and this is the cluster.
Now you can go ahead and download the config file as well.
So you can download the config file from here and in the cube folder in your home directory you can
just add this config file.
Now there is already an existing file that is available which connects to our existing cluster.
So now if I open this folder with vs code, this config file links to our existing cluster.
So what we'll do we'll just rename it to config hyphen back.
And this specific file we'll just rename it to config.
All right.
Make sure it is just config.
So now from our terminal when you do a kubectl get pods or any other command, it will connect to our
new cluster that got created.
So from the CLI just for simplicity, when I do a kubectl get nodes you see this is the node tmp as
default.
And you can also verify from this cluster if you go to resource this is the node that has been shown.
So the node port practical and maybe also the load balancer practical.
There are two practicals here.
These two practicals you will have to do it in this specific cluster.
And maybe after you have completed the practical you no longer need the cluster.
So you can go ahead and destroy the cluster.
No need for the docker command.
You can directly go ahead and destroy the cluster from here.
Or maybe if you just want this, you can destroy the older cluster where the node port does not really
work as of now.
All right, it's up to you.
In a longer run, you can just destroy the older cluster and keep the newer one running.
Alright.
However, just for the sake of workflow, I'll just destroy the newer cluster.
Let's destroy it.
Great.
And along with that, the most important part.
You do not want your API keys to get leaked.
So whatever API tokens that you might have created, which is this one ten minutes ago, you can just
delete the token.
And along with that, make sure that the server that you had launched for the practical, you want to
keep the billing to be minimal.
So this.tl, let's also go ahead and destroy it so we don't really get charged unnecessarily.
Great.
So that's an overview.
Go ahead and make sure that the practical of node port and the load balancer service type is in the
newer Kubernetes cluster.
So that's about it.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - Configure doctl ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Practical - NodePort ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the basics of node port and how exactly it works.
So today is going to be the practical video where we will go ahead and implement this specific workflow.
Now for today's practical, I have a very simple service manifest file that is available.
The name is simple service and it also has a certain selector.
So what we are going to do we are going to first change the name to node port hyphen service.
This is one part and the only part that needs to be changed.
Additionally is you have to specify type of node port.
That's about it.
So now when you create this service it will be created with a type of node port.
So from the terminal when I do cube CTL create with the service YAML, our node port service is created.
Now when you do a cube CTL get service, you see our node port service.
And you'll also see that a node port is automatically assigned to a service.
So if you quickly do a cube CTL describe service Nodeport.
Hyphen.
Service.
Just verify that a nodeport is also assigned.
Now, since this service has a selector of app equals to backend, currently there are no endpoints.
However, for testing we will need a endpoints.
So let's go ahead and also create a pod called as backend.
Pod image equals to nginx.
And we'll also label this pod app equals to backend.
And once you have done that just verify if you can see the pod endpoints over here.
Now the main aim of today's video is to make sure that we are able to connect to the nginx website that
is running in this specific backend pod.
So nginx that is installed over here.
We have to ensure that we are able to open this specific nginx web page from the internet, which is
through our workstation.
Now, as we had discussed that in order to do that, you have to make a request to the public IP of
the worker node or even if it if it is a private IP, and if you are connected through VPN, that is
also fine.
It will work.
So basically it is a node IP followed by the node port.
So at this stage we know that this is the node port 3058.
So next point is to get the worker node IP.
Now in DigitalOcean when you do a cube CTL get nodes, you will see one node that is available and same
command.
If you run with output of wide you will also see you have the external IP.
Make sure that you do not use the internal IP.
This is not our aim.
This is what we are looking for.
Once you have done that, you can manually do a curl from your local terminal.
You can add the IP followed by the node port 3058.
And you see we are getting welcome to nginx page.
Similarly if I copy this and if I add it let's open here also.
You see we are getting welcome to nginx page.
Great.
So this is one part.
Second part that I wanted to show you is that you can also create the service manifest directly, or
you can also create service through the command line.
So when you say cube CTL create service hyphen, hyphen help.
This time we are more interested in this specific service type of node port.
So when you do cube CTL create service node port hyphen hyphen help.
Now if you will see there is an example cube CTL create service node port the name of the service.
You have a port and you have the target port.
So let's also look into it from a high level overview.
So I'll say cube CTL create service node port test node port is the name.
And I'll say port and target port to be 80 and 80.
I'm not going to create the service.
I'll just show you on how the manifest looks like.
So I'll say dry run equals to client with the output of YAML.
So this is the node port service manifest file that is created for you.
So similar to our manifest file, it has a selector.
The type is node port.
And you have a port and you have a target port.
All right.
So you don't really have to remember this manifest files through the right set of commands.
It will be created for you.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you before we conclude.
So when you do a cube CTL get service, you see this specific node port 30558.
So this comes from this default range.
So this is the range that we see.
So 30,000 to 32 767.
So it can take any port from this specific range.
However in case if you would like you can also go ahead and specify that I need only one port among
the entire range.
So just for example, let's go ahead and delete this specific node port service.
And let's go ahead and create this service again.
All right.
Now when you do cube CTL get service.
You see this time a new port got assigned 31850, which is different from this.
So in case if you would like you can also hard code.
What exactly is the node port that you require.
So I can say node port and you can give any port in this range.
So let's say 30556.
All right.
I'll save this.
Now let's go ahead and first delete this specific node port.
All right.
Now when you go ahead and create the service again when you do kubectl get service this time you see
you have 30556.
Great.
Along with that the documentation is quite good.
So within here if you go to the node port related documentation, over here you have all of the examples
that are given.
The type is node port port target port and this node port.
So in case if you don't remember you can also get it from the documentation.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood about the node port from a practical point of view.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Service Type - LoadBalancer ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Today we are going to explore one of the very important service types in Kubernetes which is load balancer.
Now generally in production environments when you have a public facing application, this is the service
type that you will extensively be working with.
So with this let's get started.
Now before we explore the load balancer service type, it is important for us to understand what are
the challenges associated with the node port, because ultimately, even node port service allowed us
to expose our application to the external environment like internet.
Now, the main challenge here is that the user had to connect to the worker nodes IP address using this
node port like 31514.
Or it can be any other node port.
Now imagine you are connecting google.com not only with the DNS, but say google.com with 31210.
So this is so hard to remember.
No one is going to use it.
All right.
So even though node port is quite decent to expose the expose the application, but still it is not
really good for the production level environments.
And this is the reason why load balancer service type comes into picture.
So at a high level overview this service type, it sits between the external user and your node port.
So what happens you have a load balancer service types which creates a load balancer in your cloud provider.
And then external user using your website name can connect to the load balancer.
Load balancer in turn will forward the request to the appropriate node port, which then will forward
the request to the appropriate backend port.
Alright, so this is the basic architecture.
Let's go ahead and look into it from demo perspective.
Now for today's demo I already have a load balancer service that is created.
So when I do kubectl get service you see I have a service with a type of load balancer.
Now note that within here when you see external IP, this IP address is not of the worker node.
This IP address is of the load balancer.
So when I copy this IP address and when I do a curl, you see the website is working perfectly well.
Similarly if I add it in the browser you see we are getting welcome to nginx.
So now you don't really have to add a node port.
It is taken care by the load balancer service.
Now again we are using IP address.
But in the production environment you can have a DNS.
So you can use DNS like Labskin etc. and it will take to the appropriate website.
All right so I hope with this you understood the importance of load balancer service type.
Now one point to note, even in the diagram you can see even though node balancer service type is used,
but still there is a node port that you see in the worker node.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note which states that the load balancer service type automatically
creates a nodeport service.
Behind the scenes.
So if you see you have a service.
The type is load balancer.
However, this service also has a node port of 31249.
So ultimately the external load balancer whatever gets created.
It will receive the traffic and it will send to the appropriate node port of the worker node.
In fact, you can even see over here this ELB service that we have with the type of load balancer.
This service also has this node port.
So in fact if I have to show you you can say kubectl describe service elb service.
So within here if you will see this is the node port.
And then you also have the load balancer ingress.
So this is basically the load balancer related IPS over here.
Now the next very important point to note is that this service works only with the supported cloud provider.
Now in case if you have a on premise or a custom setup based on Kubernetes, additional configuration
is required.
It is not that it will randomly create a load balancer in any environment.
So only the supported cloud providers is where this specific will work.
So again AWS is very common.
AWS has a elastic load balancer.
DigitalOcean also has a load balancer.
Similarly, all of the major cloud providers where load balancer is available, this service will work
there.
However, let's say you are running it in minikube.
In such cases, it will not really work because ultimately Kubernetes also needs to connect to the cloud
provider so that integration will not be present if you are running it in a local setup like minikube.
However, if you are using a managed Kubernetes cluster, the managed Kubernetes cluster of a specific
provider already has the appropriate integration so that the load balancer can get created automatically.
For example, when we discuss about this specific service.
When this service gets created automatically in DigitalOcean, it also creates a load balancer.
If you see this is the load balancer that this service has created.
And when I open this load balancer, let's look into settings.
If you look into the forwarding rules what it states the traffic that this load balancer receives on
port 80, it needs to forward it to port number 3000 732.
This is very similar to the diagram.
The traffic that load balancer receives it forwards it to the node port.
So this port 30732 is nothing but the node port that you see.
You see this is the node port.
So just for better reference I have also added the screenshot of this forwarding rule.
So at a revision state this will become much more beneficial.
Now again one thing before we conclude this video is that these load balancers that generally gets created
in cloud provider environment are not free.
These are expensive load balancers.
For example, the DigitalOcean load balancer that you see over here, this is $12 per month.
But when you discuss about load balancers in AWS, they are more expensive than this.
So this is the reason why generally for testing environment, you will not really be working with this.
If you have a test environment or a development environment, you can just use a Nodeport based service
to expose your application.
You will not have to have an additional cost of load balancer.
However, in production environments you can go ahead and deploy the load balancer here.
So just to conclude this load balancer, if you see the IP address is 124.97.
And the same thing when you do a kubectl get service, the same IP that you see you get 124 .97.
Great.
So I hope with this overview you understood the load balancer service type.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - LoadBalancer ---

Everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and look into the practical aspect of creating a load balancer
based service type.
Now, before we start with the practical video, one thing that we also discussed in the earlier video
is that you need to have a supported provider.
So it is not that you try it in minikube or maybe kube ADM directly, a load balancer will be created.
However, if you are using a managed Kubernetes service of a specific provider, that provider has built
in integration with their load balancer service.
So whenever you create a service with the type of load balancer, it will automatically create a load
balancer for that specific provider.
Now when you discuss about DigitalOcean, DigitalOcean also has load balancers that are available.
And since we are using a managed Kubernetes cluster, this is something that we are going to try it
out.
Now for today's video again, we have a very simple service manifest over here which has a selector
with the app of backend.
Now creating a load balancer service is extremely simple.
It's very similar to other service types as well.
All you have to do is you have to use a type of load balancer and that's about it.
Nothing else needs to be done.
Initially it might look that a lot of configurations are required, but it is not.
A very simple service type.
Can take care of everything.
Now, before we go ahead and create a load balancer based service type, make sure that you also have
a appropriate ports that are running.
As of now I have a very blank environment, so I'll quickly go ahead and create a backend port based
on the image of nginx.
And this backend port will have a label of app equals to backend, because here we have a selector of
that.
Once you have done this you can go ahead and create the service manifest.
Let's also add a hyphen f option here.
Great.
So that's about it.
When you do a kubectl get service you see we have a simple service that got created.
The type here is load balancer.
Now we already discussed that even though you have a load balancer service type It also creates a node
port very similar to the diagram.
It creates a load balancer in the provider, but it will also create a node port because load balancer
behind the scenes will forward the traffic to the appropriate node port.
Now in DigitalOcean, if you see automatically a new load balancer is getting created, and once the
load balancer gets created, this specific part in the external IP.
Currently it is showing as pending.
So once the load balancer gets created, this IP will also get populated.
It takes a little amount of time.
So after two minutes our load balancer is finally created.
Now there is some small issue related to this page.
You cannot see the IP.
In fact, let's refresh the page to see if the formatting gets fixed.
And yes, it does.
So this is the IP address which is 252.1.
And now when you run this specific command again you see the external IP got populated here.
Now once you have the external IP just also verify if the service has the appropriate endpoint.
Let's check it.
And yes, the endpoints is also registered.
This is great.
So when you do a cube CTL get service from the terminal.
You can go ahead and send a request to this IP.
And you get a Welcome to Nginx page.
Similarly you can add it in the browser.
And now you see you are able to get the nginx page.
Now again note that the load balancers are quite expensive, so you do not really want to keep it running.
So what you can do, you can go ahead and delete this service type.
And in case if you also have pods, you can also delete the pods so that the environment is fresh for
the next practical year.
So once you have deleted the load balancer service, the load balancer in the DigitalOcean environment
will also be removed.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood about this service type from practical point of view.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Ingress ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about Kubernetes Ingress.
Now before we do that, it is important for us to understand the challenge that organizations face when
they have a simplistic configuration of a single load balancer service type.
Now, in this case, you will see that we have a very standard architecture.
You have a service.
This service is of type load balancer.
And this is the reason why the node port is also open.
So when an external user sends a request to the load balancer, a load balancer will in turn send a
request to the node port.
And then from the service it goes to the appropriate ports.
However, this type of architecture primarily supports a single service over here.
Now, in a larger organization, you will have multiple websites that might be hosted as part of Kubernetes.
So for each website you will have a separate service.
Now if you see you have an example service you have a service.
Each has their own individual pods.
Now in this case let's assume that whatever website configuration is part of the individual pod needs
to be accessible over the internet.
So what you do, you create a service with a type of load balancer.
Now in a basic configuration what will happen is each load balancer will be associated with a single
service.
So in this case if say example internal base request hits the load balancer it will go to the example
service.
And CP labs internal request hits the second load balancer.
It will go to the CP lab service.
Now if you have a single or 2 or 3 services this is fine.
But what happens if you have 4050 different websites that are part of your Kubernetes cluster?
Are you going to go ahead and launch 4050 different load balancers?
The answer is yes, you can.
But the load balancer management will become very difficult.
And also load balancers are not cheap.
They are quite expensive specifically for the providers like AWS.
So this is the reason why a little better architecture is required to deal with larger scale services.
So in the ideal approach, what you would like is you would like to have a single load balancer.
And this single load balancer should be able to handle requests for all of the services.
So what will happen is whenever a load balancer receives a request, for example based on the domain
of example internal, then based on the rules that might be configured, this request will automatically
go to the example service.
And similarly, if the request comes for internal it will go to the lab service.
So this is the ideal approach where a single load balancer should be able to handle requests for all
of the services.
And there should be a logic that routes the traffic accordingly.
So this specific rules and logic that we discuss is achievable using the Kubernetes ingress at a high
level.
Overview.
Ingress acts as an entry point that routes the traffic to services based on the rules that you define.
So within here you will have a ingress that comes into picture and then you have a load balancer.
Now when a load balancer sends a request to the ingress, the ingress component here will check for
what website the request is received.
In this case it has received the request for example dot internal.
So ingress based on the rules that are configured it will go ahead and forward this specific request
to example service.
Alright so let's do one thing before we proceed further.
Let's go ahead and look into it from a demo perspective so that this specific concept is better understood.
Now, similar to the architecture diagram that we saw in the PPT, in today's video we have two services
that are created.
One is the example service and one is the app service.
Now similar to the idol approach that we were discussing where you have example service and service,
whenever a load balancer receives a request, for example internal, then this request will go will
go to the ingress component.
Ingress component through its logic.
Will forward it to the example service here.
So let's also go ahead and look into the ingress component here.
Now when you do a kubectl get ingress currently you see I have one ingress that is available.
And when you describe this specific ingress.
You see this ingress has certain rules.
What does the rule say.
If the host.
So if a request comes for example dot internal then it should go to the example service.
Similarly, if a request comes for the internal website, the request will be forwarded to the service,
which is very similar to this specific architecture that we are discussing.
And then once the requests go to the example service, it will be forwarded to the appropriate port.
So let's also go ahead and try it out now from a different tab.
When I do a curl on example dot internal You see we got an output of.
This is an example app.
So in fact let me show you.
So at this stage we have two pods that are running.
You have the example pod and you have the pod.
So example service over here.
This specific service forwards the request to the example pod.
And what does the example pod contain.
It contains a very simple web page of this is example app.
Similarly this specific domain goes to app service class.
Service in turn is associated with pod.
And then when you make a request to say app dot internal this time you see this is a Cape Labs app.
Now similarly you can also verify from the browser.
So when I search for example dot internal you see I got this is an example app.
And when I change it to Cape Labs dot internal.
You see this is a Cape Labs app.
Now at this stage it can happen that some might say that zeal you are using two load balancers behind
the scenes.
So in order to make sure that only one load balancer is being used, let's go ahead and find that out.
Now if I go to the DigitalOcean environment, you see I only have a single load balancer that is available.
All right.
So this is the only load balancer that is available.
And this load balancer, when it receives the request due to the ingress component that is added due
to this component.
This routing happens over here.
Now one important part to note is that this routing does not happen because of the rules configured
as part of the load balancer.
It happens because of the rules configured as part of the ingress resource.
So now let's go ahead and understand more in detail on what exactly this ingress is all about.
So at this stage when we discuss about the components of ingress at a very high level overview, this
ingress has two sub components.
One is the ingress controller.
Second is the ingress resource.
Now what is the ingress controller?
It sits between your load balancer and the appropriate service.
And this controller has certain set of rules.
For example if a request comes for example internal website it should go to the external service.
So when the controller receives the request from the load balancer based on the rules, it will forward
it to the appropriate service.
So let's go and discuss more in detail about it.
Specifically, first important part here is the ingress controller.
At a high level overview, this ingress controller is a component that implements the rules defined
in the ingress resource.
For example this specific command it gave us these rules that you see over here.
To implement this specific rule you require an ingress controller.
You see you have an ingress controller that takes and reads the rule.
And based on the rule, it forwards the traffic to the appropriate service.
So here note that ingress controller is a running application within your cluster.
So it is a pod that is running in the cluster.
So let me also quickly show you where exactly that pod resides.
Now when I do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx.
You see I have a pod that is running over here.
So this pod contains the appropriate application which acts as a ingress controller.
So this application that you see over here, it will go ahead and it will read whatever rules that are
present over here.
And then based on the rules it will redirect the traffic accordingly.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share is that this specific controller over here, this controller
itself creates the appropriate load balancer service.
So if you look into this specific reference diagram that I got it from the documentation, you have
the ingress, you have the routing rule towards the service.
and then it goes to the pods.
So this ingress over here, whenever you create the ingress controller it automatically creates a appropriate
load balancer through the service.
For example, let's clear the screen.
When you do a kubectl get service in the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx, you will see that associated
with our ingress controller.
There is a service type of load balancer.
And ultimately in fact let's also describe this service.
Oops.
Let's also specify the namespace because it is in a separate namespace.
So ultimately this load balancer, when it receives the traffic through the node port it sends it to
the ingress controller pod.
Now you also see that in the end points over here this is the end points.
And in fact when you do a kubectl get pods in this specific namespace of ingress with the output of
wide.
This specific port that we saw acts as an ingress controller has a IP address of 0.110, which is the
exact IP address that you see in the endpoint.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the workflow where you have ingress controller pod.
This ingress controller itself creates the appropriate service of type load balancer, so that all of
the requests from the load balancer is received to the controller and controller based on the rules
that you define, it will go ahead and route the traffic to the appropriate service.
Now, before we conclude this video, I wanted to emphasize more on the ingress controllers over here
because without ingress controller, even if you define the rules, this rules will have no real effect.
Only after you have an ingress controller, then only this rules will start to come into effect, considering
that the traffic comes from the appropriate load balancer.
So this ingress controller.
There are multiple controllers that are available over here.
You have AWS base controller, GCE nginx base controller.
For today's demo, we had made use of this nginx ingress controller.
Apart from that, there are many other controllers that are available.
If you see in this web page.
So depending upon the requirement, you can go ahead and use the appropriate controllers accordingly.
However, in today's video we are going to keep it simple.
We just wanted to understand the basics about the ingress and the workflow.
Now as part of revision, I have also added a reference workflow diagram.
So you have an external traffic that comes from load balancer etc. it goes to the ingress controller.
Controller based on the rules will direct the traffic to the appropriate service.
Service will go ahead and direct the traffic to the appropriate ports.
Alright, so that's a very high level overview about ingress in Kubernetes.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Ingress Resource ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, our focus is going to be towards the practical of ingress resource specifically
related to the rules.
Now when we discuss about the scope of today's video, before we go ahead and have a controller, first,
it is important for us to understand on how the rules are created without creating the right set of
ingress rules.
Controller has no value.
So only and only after we understand on how to create a proper set of ingress rules, then we'll be
discussing on how you can deploy the ingress controller as well.
Now, in order to create ingress, the command is very simple.
You use the kubectl create ingress command.
And then you can specify whatever rules that your ingress must contain.
Now as part of example number one our ingress is going to contain one rule.
This rule what it states if the request comes for the website of internal, it should be forwarded to
a service called as CP Hyphen service.
This is a very simple ingress rule.
First let's go ahead and try it out post which we'll be discussing about other rules as well.
Now at this stage when you run a command of kubectl get ingress, you see there are no resources that
are available.
This is fine.
So in order to create ingress you can use a command of kubectl get ingress.
You can use hyphen hyphen help.
Now the overall usage here is very simple.
You have kubectl create ingress followed by the ingress name.
So this part is simple to understand.
Now once you have defined the ingress the next important part is the rule.
So within the rule there are two components here.
This is the first component and this is the second component.
So when we compare it with this specific screenshot this part CP dot internal is the first component.
And when the traffic comes for this website it should be forwarded to this specific backend of hyphen
service.
So this part is the second component over here.
Now again there are examples that are also defined.
Over here you can see kubectl create ingress the name of name of Ingres, then you have a hyphen.
Hyphen rule.
In the rule you have the first component over here.
So in this component you define the website related condition.
So if a request comes for fu.com/bar it should be forwarded.
So using this equal to this equal to acts as a separator between this component and the service component
a request comes for this.
Then it should be forwarded to this specific service over here.
All right.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll say kubectl create ingress I'll say first ingress.
And then you can specify rule.
And in the rule you have as we know two components.
First component is the name of website.
So for example let's say example dot internal.
So this is the first component and let's say star.
So any request that comes here now you have the second component that gets involved which is the name
of service.
We'll say example hyphen service.
And we'll define a port.
So when I press enter our ingress is created.
Now at this stage our ingress is not really concerned if a service is present or not.
For example, when I do a kubectl get service, there is no service called as example service.
But it does not really matter at this stage.
We are just creating rules.
Now once you have created the ingress resource, when you do a kubectl describe ingress, the name of
ingress over here.
This time you see in the rules over here you have a host, you have a backend.
So if a host is example dot internal.
So when a request comes to the load balancer and this request is directed towards this specific domain
of example dot internal, then it will match this specific rule.
And within your the backend is example hyphen service.
So all of the requests coming to this domain will be redirected towards this specific service.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood on how you can create the ingress resource
and the associated rules.
Now we are going to take one more example, where this time our single ingress resource will have two
rules, one for internal second for example internal.
So cablelabs internal should go to the Cablelabs service example.
Internal request should go to the example service.
Now this specific part is also quite simple.
So what you have to do this part creates the ingress and this part creates the rules.
So what you do you just copy this rule and add it one more time.
And then you can make the modifications accordingly.
So for example I say Cablelabs internal should go to the Cablelabs service and that's about it.
The reason why it failed is because we have not changed the name.
That is fine.
Let's go ahead and change the name of this ingress to second ingress.
Once I've done that, when you do a cube CTL describe ingress.
Second ingress.
You see now there are two rules over here.
One for example internal based Base request one for KP labs internal base request.
Along with that, it is also important for us to understand on how the manifest file for Ingress resource
looks like.
For example, you have a kind of ingress and then whatever rules that we had specified through the CLI
command, it goes inside the ingress spec.
So in the rules over here you have a host which is internal.
And then in the back end you have a service of CP lab service.
So if you understand the workflow this part will also be easier to understand.
Again we don't really have to remember this entire manifest file.
It can get created for us automatically.
So just for example, this specific rule that we had created.
So there were two rules.
So when you do a dry run equals to client with output of YAML you have the ingress resource that gets
created.
Now if you see in the ingress resource there will be two rules.
This is the first one with the host of example internal.
And then this is the second one with the host of CP labs internal.
Similarly you can have multiple set of rules as part of your ingress based on the overall requirement.
Now, if you'll explore the documentation related to the ingress resource, there are multiple examples
that you will see over here.
Now, one specific example that we took as part of today's video is associated with the name based virtual
hosting.
For example, you have the ingress and you have a rule of foobar.com.
It should go to this service and bar dot foo.com.
It should go to another service.
So if you see over here in the rule you have a host.
This is the domain.
If request comes to this domain it should go to this service.
If a request comes to this domain it should go to this specific service.
Now again there are wide variety of different set of rules that you can create as part of ingress.
We kept it very simple to understand it at a high level.
Overview.
And note that we are still focusing on the rules.
At this stage.
We are not really focusing on the controller only, and only after we understand on how to create proper
rules, then we will focus on the controllers as well.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Ingress Rules - Routing Patterns ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about different routing patterns that you can add as part
of your ingress rules.
Now, one of the common ones that you will be using regularly is related to name based virtual hosting.
In this case, the traffic is routed based on the host header as part of the HTTP request.
So this is specifically used when you have multiple set of services and multiple set of websites that
are hosted as part of the Kubernetes cluster.
For example, if you see if the host header has example dot internal.
So when someone types example dot internal in the browser, the browser will automatically add the host
header of the domain.
So in this case the request gets routed to service one.
If the domain is dot internal, the request gets routed to service two.
All right.
So as we are discussing this is one of the very common approaches for creating ingress rules.
And in fact, if you look into the Kubernetes documentation related to ingress, and if you search for
name based virtual hosting, this is where you will also get the basic example over here where you have
a host.
This is the first host.
This is the second host.
And the first host is sending traffic to service.
One second host is sending traffic to service two.
The second type is a path based routing where the traffic is routed based on the URL path in the HTTP
request.
So here you see you have app one which goes to app one, service slash app two which goes to app two
service.
And here also note that different path on the same hostname can point to different backend services,
right?
So this is the reason why the path based routing can also prove to be useful in a wide variety of scenarios.
Now, just for reference, I have also added a screenshot of the manifest file that demonstrates the
path based routing concept.
So here if you see you have a path of app hyphen one, and whenever a request comes to this path, it
goes to app hyphen one service.
And you have one more path of app hyphen two.
Whenever a request comes to this path it goes to app hyphen two service.
One more thing that needs to be noted here is there is no host specific field.
So irrespective of what is present as part of the host header, it does not really matter.
What matters here is the path.
So when you go ahead and create a service based on this manifest, the host will be star.
So all of the hosts will be matched as part of this wildcard.
And the primary routing will be based on the path that is defined over here.
So let's do one thing.
First let's go ahead and try it out.
Post which will be discussing about few more important pointers related to this.
Now just for simplicity what we are going to do, let's do a cube CTL create ingress with hyphen.
Hyphen help.
We get a basic usage.
Let's go ahead and create an ingress based on this.
So I will say cube CTL.
In fact let's just clear the screen.
I'll say cube CTL create ingress.
The name of ingress let's say path based ingress.
Then you have the hyphen.
Hyphen rule.
In case if you do not really remember the command you can use the cube CTL create ingress in a separate
tab so that you can see the usage.
So this is the one that we have used.
Then you have the host.
You have the path.
So just for example let's say host I'll say star path.
And then you have the equal to service port.
So I'll say equal to example service followed by the port.
All right.
We are just creating a basic manifest file.
And then we'll modify it accordingly.
So this is the basic manifest file.
Let's copy this.
And now within our CP labs CA test folder let's open this with Visual Studio Code.
And within here let's create a file path based ingress dot YAML.
I'll add the contents over here.
All right.
Now even if you do not specify a host this is completely fine.
It is not going to matter much.
What we are going to focus on is this specific block.
All right.
Let's remove this.
So here at this stage the path is the route.
Let's change it to app hyphen one and this will go to app hyphen one service.
In a similar way, you can just copy this one more time.
And then the path of app hyphen two it will go to app hyphen two hyphen service.
All right.
So this is a basic path based routing over here.
Let's save this.
Let's go ahead and open up the terminal.
And I'll say kubectl create path based ingress dot YAML.
All right.
So here we got an error.
Now one small approach to fix it.
You can just add a hyphen over here.
Since you have multiple backends this should solve the issue.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll do a cube CTL create.
And it has been created.
Now when you do a cube CTL describe ingress path based ingress.
You see, even though you had removed the host from the manifest file, it is considering a star.
And then the main routing is happening via the path app.
One app two followed by the appropriate service in a similar way.
When you do a cube CTL ingress over here, you see in the host you see a star.
All right.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood what a path based routing is all about.
And in fact even in the documentation you will see a very basic example.
So a minimal ingress resource example here you see the host is not really present.
This is a very simple path based routing based example of ingress.
Now one more very important thing that we need to be aware of is the path type over here.
So in this case the path type is exact.
So we need to understand what exactly exact means and what are the other options that are available.
Now one point that needs to be noted is that each path that you add as part of ingress is required to
have a corresponding path type.
For example, if you add this path of slash app hyphen two, then it must also be associated with a
corresponding path type.
Now discussing about path type in Kubernetes, there are two primary ones that are available.
One is exact and second one is prefix.
So these are the important ones.
So exact matches the URL path exactly and is case sensitive.
So if you specify slash foo bar it only matches this specific one.
And when we discuss about prefix it is not exact.
So slash foo that you add in the path it will match slash foo.
It will also match slash foo slash.
So I have also added a screenshot that demonstrates more in detail on how that works.
So if you see in the kind you have a prefix, you have a exact.
For example, in exact.
If you specify slash foo and the request path is slash bar, it will not match.
This is simple to understand.
However, if you add slash foo but the request path is slash foo slash, so this additional trailing
slash is added.
Still, it will not match.
However, if you have a path type of prefix with slash foo then it will match slash foo.
It will match slash foo slash as well.
So depending upon what exactly you want to mix and match.
You have to use the appropriate path type accordingly.
Now, generally in production environments you will see a structure where named, based and path based
are added together in ingress.
So this is one interesting example where you have two websites.
Host one example.com.
Host two example.com.
Each website has two paths.
App one.
App two.
App one.
App two.
And then you have a ingress.
And based on the host header, if you see host one dot example.com and the path which is app one, it
goes to service one, slash app two goes to service two.
And same for the host two dot example.com.
So this is one of the approaches that you should be aware of when you work with production environments.
Now to represent a simple named based plus path based routing type.
This manifest file explains the basic where this time you have a host of example dot internal.
And for this host itself you have two path app one.
App two.
And each path is routing to a specific service.
App one service.
App two service.
So now when you create it in the host instead of star that was present earlier, you have explicitly
defined a host of example dot internal.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So when you do a cube CTL create ingress let's say named and path the rule I'll say example dot internal
and service.
Let's just call it as app hyphen one followed by port 80.
We'll just do a dry run equals to client with the output of YAML.
This is a basic manifest file.
Let's go ahead and copy this.
And in our test folder I'll say named path dot YAML.
I'll add it over here.
All right.
So this time you have a host that is specifically added over here.
This is quite good.
And now the overall approach remains to be the same.
You can just copy this one more time and then you can say app hyphen two will go to app hyphen two hyphen
service.
Similarly, if a path is app hyphen one, it will go to app hyphen one hyphen service.
Now again, note that here you have a path type.
So depending upon the exact requirements, this path type can change as we were discussing.
All right let's save this.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll do a cube CTL create.
This is created when you do a cube CTL.
Describe ingress followed by the name of ingress.
Over here you will explicitly see that host is example dot internal.
And then you have a path based routing that comes into picture.
All right.
So depending upon the use case there are a wide set of routing patterns that you can add as part of
the ingress.
This video was just to give you a gist on the different kind of possibilities that can be added.
Now the Kubernetes ingress documentation again is quite helpful.
There are multiple set of examples that are available over here that you can reference.
However, we covered the important part related to routing patterns.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Ingress Controller ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
So today's video is going to be interesting.
Why?
Because we are going to go ahead and deploy the ingress controller and test the entire workflow.
So at this stage we have learned on how you can create ingress resource with the appropriate rules.
So now in order to test the entire workflow the main important component of controller is spending.
So today we are going to go ahead and implement a controller.
And then we are going to test this specific entire workflow.
So this is going to be our practical for today's video.
So we are going to have two service.
Each service will have its own pod.
Then we are going to have ingress resource with two rules over here.
Of example internal should go to example service.
Internal should go to CP lab service.
We are going to deploy a controller.
Controller will in turn deploy the load balancer for us.
Alright so let's go ahead and get started.
Now when it comes to controller, few points to note is that there are multiple set of controllers that
are available in Kubernetes.
In today's video we are going to make use of one of the very commonly used controller, which is the
nginx controller.
Now, when you explore the documentation related to ingress controller, you see that Kubernetes as
projects, supports and maintains AWS, GCE and nginx ingress controller.
We are going to make use of this nginx ingress controller.
Now when you go to the appropriate page, it will contain the getting started page and also the supported
version table.
What we are going to do just to simplify.
Otherwise if we just create individual pod service, it is going to take a lot of time.
So just to simplify, I have already made a guide that can deploy this entire architecture.
We are going to follow that guide and we are going to test everything.
Alright.
Now again everything is also part of GitHub for you to reference.
Now as part of this first step that we are doing is we are creating a pod.
So let us just also understand the steps that we are going to take as part of this guide.
First we are going to create two pods.
One of example port second is KP port.
Once ports are created, we are going to create the service associated with them.
Then we are going to create the ingress resource with two rules.
And then we are going to create the ingress controller.
And then we are going to test the entire setup.
All right so let's go ahead and get started.
First let's go ahead and create an example port.
Now currently I have a fresh like environment.
Currently we don't have any ingress.
We do not really have any ports.
So we are going to start from scratch.
So first we'll go ahead and create an example port.
This will be based on the image of nginx.
Then the port.
This will be based on httpd image.
Now I have intentionally separated the image because the web page should also look different.
All right.
Once pods are created, the next important part is the service.
So using the kubectl expose command it will create a service.
And it will also associate the appropriate port in this case.
Example pod with example service CP port with CPAp service.
So let's go ahead and do this.
I'll copy this.
We'll clear the screen.
We'll create the example service and we'll create the lab service.
Once this is done you can do cube CTL get service as well.
Just verify.
And also within the service you can just check if the endpoints are populated.
So I'll say cube CTL describe service will take one example of lab service.
Make sure these endpoints are populated and the correct one.
So when you do kubectl get pods with output of wide pod has IP of 0.63.
And here you see 0.63.
So our service related part is completed.
So now that we have this specific architecture done before the controller gets deployed, we have to
make sure that our ingress resource is ready with all of the rules.
So this is where the step number three comes into picture where we are going to create a ingress call
as main ingress.
In fact let's copy this.
Let's add it here I'll just do a dry run equals to client with output of YAML so that we understand.
So this ingress has two rules over here one for example dot internal second for collapse dot internal.
So these are the two rules.
And one more thing specifically for the nginx ingress controller we have also a ingress class name of
nginx that is added in the spec section.
So in fact this comes from here.
So in here we have added a class of nginx specifically for the nginx ingress controller.
So once you have done that you can go ahead and quickly deploy the ingress resource.
And you can also do kubectl describe ingress followed by main ingress.
And within your just verify that the rules you are able to see are correct ones.
And this part of the pod IPS should also be populated.
So once we have this now it is the time to deploy the ingress controller.
So this is part of the step number four.
Now again to deploy ingress controller.
The command is very simple.
You can directly copy from here we'll clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and deploy the nginx ingress controller once this is done.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods you will see there are no pods that are created in a default namespace.
And in fact, all of the pods related to the ingress controller are created in a separate namespace.
And that namespace is this, which is ingress hyphen nginx.
All right.
So when you do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx.
This is the main port of nginx controller and you can make sure that it is running.
It takes a little amount of time sometimes.
So before testing everything make sure this is running.
And similarly when you do a kubectl get service with the namespace of ingress nginx, you will see that
our nginx controller has also created a service of type load balancer.
The external IP is pending.
Why?
Because the load balancer is getting created in DigitalOcean environment.
Alright, so note that the controller itself takes care of creating the load balancer, so we don't
really have to do this step explicitly.
Now, within the DigitalOcean environment, when you go to networking, you go to load balancers.
Currently you see you have one load balancer that is getting created great.
After two minutes our load balancer has been created.
And currently if I refresh the page this is the IP address of the load balancer.
So let's clear the screen.
Now generally when you do a kubectl get service here the IP is not yet available.
So it is still showing pending.
That is fine.
It takes a little amount of time for the external IP to be reflected.
Now the next important part here is to send the request to the load balancer with this specific domain.
Now the issue here is that these are internal domains.
So what you can do, you can manually make a curl request to the load balancer IP with this specific
host header of example.com internal.
And then controller will read the header.
And the redirection will happen automatically.
So when you do kubectl get service this time the external IP is appearing correctly.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll make a curl request.
We'll specify host header of example internal and then we'll copy the IP.
And this time you see we are getting welcome to nginx page.
So why we are getting welcome to nginx page.
If you will see here the example pod is using nginx base image.
And this is the reason why you are getting this.
In a similar way, when you make a curl request to say KP labs dot internal, this time you see you
are not getting engine X speech, you are simply getting it to work.
So this is like a default web page for the Apache based image.
Now generally let's assume that this specific domain is resolvable.
And when you make a request through the browser browser, behind the scenes will add this specific header
before sending the request to the appropriate load balancer.
So this is one point to note.
And since this is not resolvable, we manually added this host header as part of the curl and send that
request to the load balancer for our testing environment.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood about the entire practical architecture of Ingress and
Ingress controller.
Now again, note that since load balancer is created and load balancers are expensive, so you have
to make sure that the resources that you have created are also removed.
So let's also go ahead and do that.
So let's go a bit down.
First we are going to go ahead and remove the ingress controller related resource.
So let's run this command.
So this will also remove the service type of load balancer.
Now till the time it happens in the next step you can go ahead and delete other resources.
The second one is the ingress resource.
Then you have the service.
The example service and Cablelabs service.
This is example service.
Then you have the Cablelabs service.
And then you have the example port.
And then you have the port as well.
Great.
So this part of deletion can take a little amount of time.
We'll just leave it as it is.
The important part is to make sure that the load balancer is not there, so that there are no unnecessary
charges as part of the environment.
Great.
So that's an overview about the ingress controller.
I hope with this.
Now you understood on how the workflow happens.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Helm ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we will be discussing about one of the very important topics in Kubernetes,
specifically when you're working in a production environment.
And the name of the topic is Helm.
So let's get started now at a high level overview.
Helm is one of the package manager for Kubernetes.
Now, at this stage, we have been working at multiple Kubernetes objects individually, like we have
been working with deployments.
Maybe we have been working with config maps, volume secrets.
ET cetera.
Now, when you work at an individual level, it is fine.
It is very straightforward.
However, in production environments, when you discuss about an application, an application might
use a lot of Kubernetes based objects.
It can use deployment secrets.
It can make use of a ingress controller volumes, it can make use of config maps and various others.
Now let's say that you have an application A and this application A is using so many Kubernetes objects
here.
Now you will not go ahead and deploy each one of these objects individually.
It will be a bit of a pain.
So what do you do in production environment?
You combine all of the objects that you will be creating as part of the application together, and this
is referred to as a helm chart.
So you have a helm chart of application A, and this chart has all of the Kubernetes objects required
to deploy and make sure the application A is up and running.
Now what do you do?
You go ahead and deploy this helm chart to your Kubernetes cluster.
Now you can have one Kubernetes cluster, two Kubernetes cluster, 100 Kubernetes cluster.
It does not really matter once you have all of the objects defined in a helm chart using your helm client,
you can deploy it to X amount of Kubernetes cluster, and that's about it.
This is how easy it is to deploy your entire application in production environment.
Now, one of the great things about Helm chart is the repository.
Now this application that we have been defining, this application can be created by you.
It can also be created by different organization altogether.
Let's say that you want to deploy a WordPress based blog on your Kubernetes cluster.
Now if you look into various public repositories available for Helm, there will be a WordPress chart
that might already be available.
So what you can do, you can simply make use of this WordPress chart and deploy it within your Kubernetes
cluster and your WordPress blog is up and running.
You do not really need to do anything here.
Similarly, there might be a Jenkins chart that might be available in a public repository.
Just take this chart, deploy it in your Kubernetes server and your Jenkins up and running.
So this is the great benefit of Helm.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and quickly try it out.
Now, currently I'm in a website of artifact hub.
So basically within here you can browse various helm packages that are available in various public repository.
Now, for example, let's say that I want to deploy MySQL within Kubernetes, so I'll search for MySQL
and you will see that there are multiple helm charts that are available from different set of providers
tomorrow.
I want to go ahead and deploy Jenkins I can search for Jenkins and you see officially from Jenkins,
I have a helm chart that is available and using this helm chart, I can directly deploy it in my production
environment.
So now at this stage, if Jenkins creates deployment secrets configmaps volumes, we do not really need
to worry.
All we have to do is we have to take this chart using helm and deploy it within the Kubernetes cluster.
That's how easy it is.
So for today's demo, we'll be deploying a WordPress chart, which again is available in the Artifact
Hub.
Let me quickly show you.
So if I search for WordPress here, you have a WordPress chart that is available.
We'll take this WordPress chart and we'll deploy it to our Kubernetes cluster and we'll look into how
easy it is.
Now within the CLI, we'll be using a command called as helm install.
We'll be giving this release name locally and we'll be installing the WordPress chart that is available
and the provider is Bitnami.
So if you see here, the organization is Bitnami and we'll be deploying the WordPress chart.
Now all you have to do is you will have to press enter.
Now again, we'll be discussing about the practical aspect in more detail in the later videos, but
let's understand it in a demo perspective first.
Great.
Now at this stage here, you see it basically shows you the status as deployed.
And it is also saying that it can take few minutes for the load balancer IP to be available.
And this is fine because the WordPress chart might be creating a lot of Kubernetes objects behind the
scenes now going to the Bitnami repository associated with the WordPress to see what exactly is been
created over here.
Let's quickly go to the templates.
And here you see that they are creating deployments, they are creating config map, they are creating
ingress, they are creating PVC secrets, services and various others.
Now let's say that you want to deploy WordPress in your organization.
Now either you can go ahead and create each of this resources, manually integrate all of them together
or simply get the WordPress chart available and deploy the chart directly in your Kubernetes cluster.
Great.
So till that time, let's quickly do a kubectl get pods.
Now at this stage there are two pods that are up.
One is associated with the Mariadb.
So it is also going ahead and deploying a database for you.
And second is the WordPress application by itself.
Now within the Digitalocean console, you will see automatically a new load balancer has been created
and it is also showing you the IP address of the load balancer.
Let's copy this up and let me paste it within the browser and you will see our WordPress blog is up
and running.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the benefits that the helm chart allows you to do.
Not only you can go ahead and package your own application in helm chart.
Along with that, there are a lot of other organizations that already publishes the helm chart associated
with the most popular applications in various public repository.
So you can just go ahead and take it and deploy it within your organization.
Now let's say that you have deployed the helm chart of WordPress, you have done your testing and now
you do not really need it.
So what is the Uninstallation process?
So the only thing that you have to do, you will have to do a helm uninstall followed by the name of
release, which is demo release and that's about it.
Our entire WordPress helm chart is now uninstalled.
So if you'll quickly do a kubectl get pods over here, you see the pods are removed and all of the associated
objects created by the WordPress helm chart, all of them have been removed.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of helm charts.
So before we conclude, let's quickly revise our helm concepts.
First one is that a chart is basically a helm package and it contains all of the resource definitions
required to run an application tool or service inside of a Kubernetes cluster.
And you also have a repository, which is the place where the charts can be collected and shared.
Great.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Installing Helm ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, before we go ahead and start with our interesting practicals related to deploying
helm charts within the Kubernetes cluster, the first thing that we need is we need to install a helm
binary within our workstation.
Now, similar to how we had downloaded the Cube Ctl binary, which we later used to interact with our
Kubernetes cluster, very similar to that.
We'll also need to go ahead and download the helm binary.
Now, if you look into the helm documentation associated with installing helm, let's go a bit down.
So here they have already given the basic commands.
Like if you have a mac OS, you can use brew install helm.
If you have windows, you can make use of cocoa.
If you have Debian or Ubuntu, then you can make use of this command and so on.
Along with that they also give us the releases.
Let me quickly show you.
So if I quickly open up the binary release here.
So this is the current version that is available.
And within here you see you have binary associated with multitude of operating system.
Let me go ahead and download the binary associated with Windows Amd64 here.
We'll also be exploring the Linux based installation.
So I'll open up this Windows amd64 and automatically you see a archive got downloaded and if I'll quickly
open up this archive, the only thing that it will have is the helm binary.
So you see you have a helm dot exe that is available now currently from my terminal.
If I'll type helm over here you see it states helm is not a recognized command.
So basically what I have done within my C drives, I have a folder called as binaries where I generally
store all of my binaries, and the only binary that I have available here is kubectl.
So what I'll do, I'll go ahead and extract our helm binary in this folder itself.
So let's extract this and I'll specify a C drive binaries here.
Once you have done that, you can open up the newer terminal and if I do a hill near you see it works
perfectly well.
Now do note that I already have a environment variable available over here and this is the reason why
it is working.
So if I'll quickly show you under my computer properties Advanced system settings, if you look into
the environment variable, one of the path that is available here is C drive binaries.
And this is the reason why when I type helm the windows is able to detect that helm dot exe is under
this specific directory.
Great.
Now let's also look into the installation associated with ubuntu.
So this time we'll be using the apt command to install helm in a ubuntu server.
Now for today's demo I have a ubuntu based server that is available and if I just type helm over here
it's basically state's helm command not found.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll copy the first command, let's add it will install a package and now let's also configure the repo,
let's do an apt get update and now all you need to do is apt get install helm perfect and that's about
it.
So if you just type helm over here, you'll see things are working perfectly well.
So depending upon the operating system that you use, you can download the appropriate package to get
started.

--- Helm Practical ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to explore helm from a practical point of view, and we are going to
look into some of the very important commands that you have to be aware of.
Now, just for simplicity and easy reference, I have documented some of the very important helm commands
that you will be using regularly in case if you use helm, and also some of the important commands from
the perspective of the exams.
Now we are not going to explore each command at this stage.
When we start with the practical, we will look into each one of them and its associated description.
Now, whenever you are working with helm, one of the very important websites that you should be aware
of is the Artifact Hub.
This is where we are going to see all of the popular helm charts that you can directly use.
So you see, you have so many packages that are available based on what you want to install.
You can search for the packages over here.
So let's say that I want to install WordPress.
Now in here you see there are so many helm charts that are available for WordPress.
Now which one should you use?
So here there are multiple filters that are available that will allow you to narrow down.
For example, you can look for the official helm charts.
You can look for the helm charts from verified publishers and the CNCF.
So let's say that I am looking for the official ones.
So at this stage, you see, you do not have any official ones that are available.
Now, in such case, what you need to do, you have to look for helm charts that are provided by some
trusted organization.
So Bitnami is very trusted and it is used quite extensively by organizations.
So you can trust this.
Now there are also others that are available, but from the production environment perspective, I will
avoid these helm charts unless and until you have gone through the code and you are fully sure that
it is safe.
Alright, so when you go ahead and when you open this specific helm chart over here, you will get all
of the important details.
You see, the overall documentation is quite extensive, so you can go ahead and read it.
Maybe if you would like some level of customization.
Everything is available here.
So this is 1.20 second very, very important point that you have to keep a note of is related to the
security report.
Now within here you see it says 312 vulnerabilities found.
Some of them are critical.
Some of them are high.
Majority of them are low.
And in case if you open the full report, you will get all of the details over here.
Now generally for the containers, this is quite common.
I have seen in organizations specifically for the base images like ubuntu, CentOS, etc. most of them
generally are not updated and this is the reason why you will see a lot of vulnerabilities.
So based on this, you have to be very careful.
If you have critical vulnerabilities in a specific helm chart, you should avoid deploying it in the
production environment because the chances of compromise in such cases are very high.
So you have to be careful in such cases.
So this is one point to keep a note of.
So we'll go back and we'll take one more example of Prometheus.
Now in Prometheus let's search for it.
One of the good thing here you see it is an official.
So this is an official package.
You have a verified publisher and this is also published by CNCF.
So this is like the highest safety standard that is available.
And again you have all of the instructions.
And also here there are certain vulnerabilities that you will see that are available.
And this is quite common for helm.
And maybe some ready made container images of application that you might use.
So this is one part.
Now what we are going to do generally for any helm chart that you want to install in your organization,
you can go ahead and you can run this set of commands.
For example, you also have a install over here.
So the first part is to add the repository.
Now this is very similar to ubuntu or CentOS.
Let's say you want to download some packages through yum.
What you will do in a RedHat based system.
First you are going to add the appropriate repository.
After the repository is added, then you will run the yum install and install the appropriate packages.
So similar to that, even in helm, first you add the appropriate repository and then you go ahead and
install the appropriate helm chart for the application.
Now for today's video, what we are going to do.
We are going to go ahead and install nginx.
Now again for nginx.
You see there are multiple helm charts that are available.
We are going to use the one by Bitnami.
This is quite trusted.
Now within here they have given one command that you can use to directly install helm.
This is one point.
Second point is you can also go ahead and use a traditional way where you will run the helm repo add
command and this is the URL.
And then run the helm install command.
This is the release name.
This can be changed based on your requirement.
And here you are specifying what is the application and the appropriate version.
So within this table first we are going to explore the helm repo add as we know it adds a helm chart
repository.
And then using the helm install you install the appropriate chart.
So let's go ahead and try it out now.
Again I have already documented all of these commands in our GitHub page for everyone to reference.
So let's go ahead and do that.
First we are going to add the appropriate repository.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Once this is done we are going to run the helm install command.
Let's copy this and I'll add it over here.
All right.
Now if you go a bit up you should see that the status is deployed.
So let's clear the screen.
Now when you run the kubectl get pods command you see we have one nginx pod that is available and the
status is running.
Now one very important point to note is that here we are installing nginx.
So does it mean that it will only configure the nginx port?
The answer is no.
If you just had to configure a simple nginx port, you can have a simple manifest file and install it
from there.
However, the importance of helm chart is that it can group the related resources and deploy it for
you together.
Now, what are the things that this helm chart is configuring for us in the cluster?
Let's look into it.
So if you look into the template you will see it is doing a lot of things.
It is configuring the ingress.
It is configuring the TLS secret, the horizontal Pod autoscaler, the service.
You have a service account.
You have the deployment.
So instead of Pod you have a deployment.
You have a network policy.
And there are so many other things that it is configuring for you as part of your environment.
So generally when you configure and install a helm chart, first thing just verify what are the things
that it is trying to do within your Kubernetes environment.
Try it out in your test environment and then only deploy it in your production.
For example when you do kubectl get horizontal pod autoscaler.
Here you see that it says no resource found in the default namespace.
So this is one point that I wanted to share.
So here for the Horizontal pod autoscaler.
This is one example.
You have a specific condition which states that if values dot autoscaling dot enable is set to true,
then it will go ahead and configure the horizontal pod autoscaler.
Now you will have to explicitly set it, because here you see in the default it is clearly showing it
as false.
And this is the reason why you have this.
However, in case if you would like, all you have to do is you have to set the value to be true and
the horizontal pod autoscaler will get configured as part of your environment in a similar way for service,
there is no specific condition that is available and when you do cube CTL get service.
You see we have one service that is available.
The type of the service is load balancer.
So in case if you are running it in say DigitalOcean based environment, it will go ahead and configure
the load balancer for you in case if you're trying it in maybe a kind cube ADM or a mini cube cluster,
the load balancer will not be available, but you will have a cluster IP.
So from any pod, if you send a request to the cluster IP, you can get the nginx page.
Now in my environment, since the load balancer IP is available let me just open this year.
Let's add it.
And here you see we are getting a simple Welcome to nginx page.
So this is one point to keep a note of.
Again you will have to read what exactly this part means because for network policy also you have a
condition.
So here the default is set to true.
So the network policy would have been configured.
So let's also verify when you do kubectl get network policy.
You see we have one network policy that is available.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of helm repo.
Add an helm install command.
Now we are going to explore few more helm related commands.
Let's run the helm list.
First, let's clear the screen.
When we run the helm list you will see what are the charts that are deployed.
So it basically shows you the status and the chart and the related information.
So in this case in fact let me zoom out.
So here you have my nginx which is the release name.
This is the namespace.
The status is deployed and this is the chart and the appropriate version.
The next command is the helm repo list.
So if I run this specific command it will show you what are the repositories that are configured as
part of your Kubernetes.
In this case we have Bitnami.
As we have done that, you also have cilium.
Then instead of searching through the artifact hub, you can also search through the CLI so you can
run the helm search command to search for the appropriate application or charts.
So here you have two approaches.
So you have helm search.
Helm search you can search at a repository level.
Or you can search at a artifact hub level.
So here if I search at a artifact hub level let's run this.
And as expected here you see you have so many helm charts that are available.
And it also gives you the link.
In fact, if I zoom out it would look something similar to this.
The next is you can also search at a repository level instead of the entire artifact hub.
So if you want to search at a repository of bitnami, let's copy this.
Let's run it over here.
And the details that you will see are specific to Bitnami.
So if you want to see what are the charts that are available, you see, Bitnami has so many charts
that are available over here, we are only using one among them which is the nginx.
But there are so many others that are available that you can consider using.
So this covers the first one which is health search.
We looked into repository as well as the hub.
Both of them are separate commands.
The next command that I want to emphasize upon is the helm template.
So if you see the helm template it renders the Kubernetes manifest locally without installing.
So let's also go ahead and look into it I'll copy this.
Let's clear the screen.
I'll run this command.
So you have helm template followed by because we had installed this specific chart.
I'll run this.
So you see what exactly it is doing.
This is the final manifest file that is being used to create and deploy the application.
So you have the service.
You have the TLS secret over here.
You have the service account.
And if we go a bit down you have the network policy etc. that is available.
So if you want to quickly look into what exactly is happening before you install, this is one of the
very important commands here.
Now you can also go ahead and redirect the output to a YAML file if you want to reference it easily.
Let's also explore that.
So I'll just move it to a file called as nginx dot YAML.
So within our case we have nginx dot YAML.
If I open this you will get the exact YAML file with all of the details.
So this way it becomes much more easier to review on what exactly the helm chart will do when you install
it.
Now one more thing is that you can also go ahead and install a appropriate helm chart in a specific
namespace.
For example, when we had installed our helm chart, it had created the resources like deployments,
services, network policies, etc. in the default namespace.
So in case if you would want it to be deployed in a different namespace, it is possible and it is quite
easy.
So what you can do is in the helm install you can just specify using the hyphen n, you can just specify
the appropriate namespace.
space.
So let's in fact try it out.
So within your let's say namespace as custom hyphen ns I'll press enter.
Now when you look into nginx dot YAML you see for each resource for example network policy then the
pod disruption budget then service account automatically.
The custom namespace has been configured over here.
And same goes for install.
If you add the hyphen n with the appropriate namespace name, helm will configure the resources in those
namespaces.
And the last important command.
After you have completed the practical, you can go ahead and uninstall the appropriate helm chart using
the helm uninstall command.
So let's copy this.
We'll go ahead and we'll run it.
And great it is uninstalled.
So now when you do kubectl get pods everything would have been removed.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about some of the important commands specifically related to helm.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Kubernetes Namespace - New ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about another very important topic in Kubernetes which
is namespaces.
So in production environment you will be using namespaces quite extensively.
So let's go ahead and understand what this is all about.
Now at a very high level overview using namespaces you can isolate a group of resources within a single
Kubernetes cluster.
For example, in this specific image you will see that you have a single Kubernetes cluster.
This Kubernetes cluster has multiple namespace development, staging, and QA, and each namespace has
their own individual resources like pods Configmaps secrets for each environment over here.
Now, before we go ahead and look into it from a practical perspective, let's look into the benefits
that this kind of architecture provides.
Now, in a Kubernetes cluster, it is not necessary that only one team might be working.
There can be multiple teams or multiple set of projects that share the same cluster.
And in such cases, when you have multiple teams, multiple projects.
Each team can have hundreds of pods in the larger environments.
So what you want is you want all of them within the same cluster, but they should not be interfering
with each other.
So using namespaces, it allows you to separate the environments like development, QA, staging as
part of a single Kubernetes cluster.
So with this base set, let's go ahead and look into it from a practical point of view as well.
Now from the terminal when we run a command say kubectl get pods, at this stage we can conclude that
there are no pods running.
However, is it necessary that there are no pods running in the entire Kubernetes cluster?
The answer is no.
And in fact, if you read this message carefully, it contains the important pointer here which states
that no resource found in default namespace.
So only in default namespace there are no pods running.
It can happen that in a Kubernetes cluster in different namespace there are pods that are running.
For example, if you look into the diagram you have a namespace of development.
namespace of production, etc. so it can happen that in one specific namespace there are no pods running,
but in a different namespace there can be multiple pods running which you are not able to see over here.
So in such cases when you do a cube CTL, get pods.
If you want to see total how many pods are running as part of your Kubernetes cluster, you can say
all namespaces.
Now suddenly you see there are so many pods that are available.
You see so many pods that are running behind the scenes that you might not had been aware of as well.
And here it is also showing you the namespace in which these pods are running, and all of them are
running in a namespace called as kube system.
All right.
So I hope with this you started to understand on how namespace provides a mechanism for isolating groups
of resources within a single Kubernetes cluster.
Now we need to also understand about the default namespaces that comes as part of Kubernetes.
One of them is the default over here.
So generally whenever you create a resource like pods and you do not specify any namespace, then these
resources are created in a default namespace.
Along with that we saw a namespace of kube system.
So these namespaces are specifically for objects that are created by the Kubernetes system.
So ideally you should not mess up with this specific namespace because these pods that are generally
created, the config maps that are generally created, they are very important for Kubernetes and Kubernetes
handles them.
Along with that you also have kube public and kube node lease namespaces.
This is just for reference.
The main aim here is to understand the importance of namespace and we should be aware of default namespace.
The kube system namespace and any other namespace that you create in a similar way.
For example, when I do a kubectl get config maps currently this is the config map that is being shown.
Now is it that this is the only config map that is available in the entire cluster?
Answer is no.
So when you do a kubectl get config maps with all namespaces, you see there are so many config maps
that are available.
Most of them are within the kube system.
All right.
Now again as we were discussing kube system namespace resources we should never touch.
Otherwise the functionality of your Kubernetes cluster can be impacted.
Now the next important part that we should know on.
How can we know how many namespaces that are available as part of the cluster?
So in such case you can run a command say kubectl get namespace and it will show you all of the namespaces
that are available.
The two of them, as we are discussing this is one of the very important namespace.
And then the default namespace.
So whenever you go ahead and create a pod say kubectl run test pod with the image of nginx.
Now in this command you did not specify the namespace explicitly, since namespace was not specified
in the command.
This is the reason why it gets created in the default namespace.
Now, one more important part that we should know is that when you run this command directly and not
specify any namespace, it will show you the pods associated with the default namespace only.
Now let's say that you want to see the pods, but of kube system namespace.
I don't want to see the pods associated with the default namespace.
So in such case what you can do, you can run kubectl get pods command.
However, you can explicitly specify that I want to see pods that are part of only this specific namespace
of kube system.
So now all of these pods that you will see they are a part of kube system namespace only.
So the next important command that we should know on how we can create a namespace.
Creation of namespace is quite simple.
In Kubernetes you can make use of the kubectl create namespace command followed by the namespace that
you want to create.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So I'll say kubectl create namespace let's say development.
And we'll create one more namespace kubectl create namespace secure.
All right.
Now when you do a kubectl get namespace you see we have one namespace that is available which is development.
And we have one namespace that is available which is QA.
So what you can do in Kubernetes, you can say that all of the users or all of the team members that
are part of the development team, they can go ahead and create their pods.
They can go ahead and create their configmaps etc. in only the development namespace.
Similarly, QA team should only create their resources in the QA namespace.
In this way you will see that the pods, the Configmaps, etc. everything is segregated and it becomes
easier to manage as well.
So once we have learned on how you can create a namespace, the next important part is how you can run
a specific object in a namespace.
So in such case, the command is very simple.
Let's say you want to create a pod not in the default namespace, but in a very specific namespace that
you have created.
Then you can use hyphen n option and specify the namespace name.
So this specific part of hyphen n followed by the namespace.
It allows you to create a resource in that namespace.
And it also allows you to fetch resources.
For example kubectl get pods hyphen n the namespace name.
So in such case it will fetch the pods from that specific namespace only.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create a pod I'll say cube CTL run.
Let's say development pod with the image of nginx.
And I'll specify hyphen n.
And then you can specify the name of the Of the namespace, which is development in a similar way,
when you do cube CTL run, let's say QA pod, same image of nginx.
However, this time it should run in a QA namespace.
All right, let's clear the screen.
Now when you do kubectl get pods, you will only see test pod.
You will not really see the pods that belongs to the other namespace.
Now in case if you want to see the pods that belongs to other namespace, you can explicitly specify
that I want to get all of the pods that are part of development namespace.
So now you have the development pod.
Similarly, you can say that I want to see pod that are part of QA namespace.
Now this is the QA namespace related pods.
In a similar way, if you want to see pods related to all the namespace, then you have to use this
specific command with hyphen.
Hyphen all namespaces.
And when you press enter you will see the development pod.
You will see the QA pod.
You will also see this test board and you will see other parts that are part of the kube system namespace
as well.
Now, when it comes to real world environment, from what I have seen, most of the organizations they
make use of managed Kubernetes cluster.
And these clusters are expensive.
They are not cheap.
So in such cases you will see that organization.
They make use of multiple namespaces for each team or for each project and the project.
Resources like pods, configmaps, secrets, etc. are added as part of the namespace only.
Now, within your one point to note is that the production namespace generally is not part of the same
Kubernetes cluster.
All right.
So if you have a development, staging and QA namespace in Kubernetes cluster, then you will have a
separate Kubernetes cluster for the production resources.
You do not want all of the namespaces to be combined.
This increases the overall attack surface area.
In case if there are any issues related to permissions, sometimes you might give more permissions than
what is required.
So this is the reason why it is important to have a separate Kubernetes cluster for production environment
and not mix it with your testing based Kubernetes cluster with multiple namespaces.
Now, before we conclude this video, one more thing that I wanted to share is specifically related
to how the manifest file really looks like.
So for example, let's create a test pod with the image of nginx and I'll say namespace of QA.
And let's do a dry run equals to client with the output of YAML.
So in case if you have a manifest file and you want the resource in that manifest file to be created
in a specific namespace, then in the metadata, generally we add the name inside the metadata.
Along with the name, you can specify the namespace as QA or whatever namespace in which you want the
resource that is part of the manifest file to be created.
All right.
So this is one part that you need to keep a note of.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about Kubernetes namespaces and its importance.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Service Accounts ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we are going to discuss about service accounts in Kubernetes.
Now at a high level overview, when we discuss about Kubernetes cluster, there are two categories of
accounts here.
First is the user accounts.
These are meant for humans.
So if someone from your team wants to connect to the Kubernetes cluster and wants to perform some operation
so you can classify those as user accounts.
And second one is service accounts.
Now service accounts are specifically for applications or some processes that wants to connect to the
Kubernetes cluster to perform some operations.
Now, in today's video, our primary aim is to understand the basics of these service accounts and how
the application can use them for their activities.
Now, at this stage, we already know that if you want to connect to the Kubernetes cluster, whatever
entity is connecting, it needs to have some kind of a authentication credentials.
For example, if a user wants to perform some operations on Kubernetes, cluster user needs some kind
of a certificate or some kind of a token that can be authenticated to similarly, if any processes or
if any pods wants to connect to the Kubernetes cluster, again, some kind of a authentication credentials
will be needed.
Now let me quickly show you.
So at this stage when we do a kubectl get pods, you see there are certain pods that are currently running.
Now how did this command got successfully executed to Kubernetes cluster?
The reason is because of authentication.
Now, behind the scenes, I have the Kubeconfig file that is available, which has all of the credentials
that my Kubectl client uses to authenticate to the cluster.
For example, if I'll quickly open this up, let me quickly show you.
If I'll open this up, you will see that there is a token.
So in the user you have a token and this is the token that the kubectl client is using to connect to
the cluster.
And here you see you also have a user and this is the username associated with it.
Great.
Now when we discuss about authentication credentials, there are various different types of credentials
that can be used.
Tokens is something that we just saw.
You can also make use of certificates to connect to the cluster and so on.
So at a high level overview.
The primary aim of today's video is to understand that humans will use user accounts to connect to the
cluster.
You can categorize it as user accounts and any other entities like pods or applications or any other
processes.
They will typically use service accounts to connect to the cluster.
So this distinction is something that we need to remember.
Now, when you launch a Kubernetes cluster behind the scenes, the Kubernetes cluster has various components.
It has API server scheduler, the controller manager, Etcd and various others.
So behind the scenes, whenever you create a Kubernetes cluster, you will see that there are many service
accounts that are already created as part of it.
For example, when you run the command Kubectl get service accounts fit all namespaces.
You will see a list of service accounts that are currently created.
Let me also quickly show you this, so I'll clear the screen.
Now, if you do kubectl get service accounts will do all namespaces.
You see, there are so many service accounts that are created over here.
So behind the scenes, service accounts are used extensively for performing a lot of operations through
machine entities.
Now, at this stage, I'm sure that the concept of service account is still not understood.
Clearly, we know that service account is something that Pods or applications will use, but what exactly
is this service account?
What does it provide to the application so that application can successfully authenticate to the cluster?
So let's assume that you have a service account here and this service account is associated with a pod
A and inside this pod A there might be some application or there might be some processes that would
be running.
So when you have such type of a connection, what will happen is that Pod can use the token that is
associated with the service account to perform actions on the Kubernetes cluster.
So what happens is when a service account is associated with a pod, this pod will receive some kind
of a token similar to how we saw that the config file that we had had a token.
Similarly, even the pod, when it gets associated with the service account will receive a token and
through that token the pod will be able to perform some operations on the Kubernetes cluster, depending
upon what permissions that token has.
So let's quickly have a look into this from demo perspective.
Now from the CLI, let's go ahead and quickly create a new pod so that the concept can be understood.
I'll say Kubectl run, the name of Pod will say app pod and we'll use the Nginx image to create a pod.
All right.
Now if I'll quickly do a kubectl get pods, we have our app pod that is running now, this app pod.
Let's go ahead and quickly connect to it or before we connect to it, let's do a kubectl describe pod
app hyphen pod.
Now let's go a bit up.
Now within here, you see in the service account, there is a default service account that is associated
with the pod.
Now, here we have learned that whenever a service account gets associated with a pod, an appropriate
token is also added as part of the pod.
The application that is running as part of the pod can use that token to authenticate to the Kubernetes
cluster and perform some operations.
All right.
So now let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and quickly do an exec into the pod.
All right.
Now, if you go to a directory of var run Secrets, kubernetes.io service account.
All right, let's press enter.
If I do an LS here, you see, there are three files over here.
One of the important file is the token.
So this is the actual token which you can use to connect to the Kubernetes cluster.
So when you do a cat on this token, you see, this is how the token really looks like.
So any application that is running inside this pod can connect to this specific directory can fetch
the token.
And using that token, the application can authenticate to the cluster and also perform some operation
depending upon the overall permissions.
As part of this token.
Now let me also quickly show you this so that the overall concept is better understood.
So just for simplicity, I will say token is equal to and I'll say cat token.
All right?
Because when we do a cat token, our token gets displayed.
And when you quickly do a ICO on token, you see our token gets shown here now from a different tab.
So currently I am not connected to the pod here, similar to the first tab.
Let's go ahead and quickly get the details of the cluster.
So our control plane is running on this URL.
This is important.
So now what we can do?
I'll do a curl, I'll do a K, and in the header I'll say authorization and we'll use a token.
I'll just specify the token here.
So instead of specifying the entire token, you will just use this and then you can copy the control
plane URL here.
Let's remove this.
Let's add it.
There is a space which is missing here.
All right.
And let's say API version one.
And you see, we get the output over here.
So the reason why we are getting all of this output is because of the token that we had specified.
And using the token, our CLI was able to successfully authenticate to the Kubernetes cluster.
Now, instead of this token, for example, if we just add a random token here, let's consider that
this is the token.
If I press enter immediately you see from the API server we got an unauthorized message stating that
we are not able to successfully authenticate to the cluster and hence we will not be able to perform
the operation that we are trying to do using the Curl Command.
Now again, there are a lot of things that can be done.
For example, our application can go ahead and create a new set of pods.
So that would mean that whatever service account token that it is able to fetch from this specific directory
must have the permission to create the pod and so on.
All right.
So I hope with this at a very high level overview, you understood the basics of service accounts and
how when a service account is associated with a pod, a token is mounted at a pod level, and through
that token, the application can go ahead and authenticate to the Kubernetes cluster to perform certain
kind of operations.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Service Accounts - Points to Note ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we are going to discuss about some of the important pointers specifically related
to service accounts.
Now, the first important pointer that you have to keep a note of is associated with default service
account.
So whenever you create a Kubernetes cluster note that Kubernetes will automatically create a service
account named default for every namespace within your cluster.
So if you have ten namespace, each namespace will have a service account called as default.
Now you can easily verify it.
So whenever you do a kubectl get service account, you will see that there is a default service account
that gets created.
So from the CLI, if you will do a kubectl get service account, you will see that there is a default
service account that is created instead of writing the entire service account.
You can also do something like SC that will also work.
Now in the Kubernetes cluster, we also have a namespace of Kube system.
So if you do a kubectl get service account in the namespace of Kube system, you see there are many
service accounts that are currently available.
Along with that, you will also see that there is a default service account that is also present as
part of Kube system.
So anytime if you create a new namespace associated with a namespace, a service account will also get
created.
Let's also try it out.
So when I say kubectl create namespace, let's just call it as CP labs hyphen test.
All right.
Now if you do a kubectl get service account in the namespace of CP Labs hyphen test, you'll see a default
service account gets created automatically.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the first pointer here.
The second important pointer that you need to keep a note of is that each service account in Kubernetes
can be associated with certain permission.
For example, you have a service account here.
You can assign permissions on what the token associated with the service account is allowed to do.
Whether this service account token can read the logs of pods or they have full access to pods.
Whether the application using the service account token can delete the pods or whether it can create
the pods.
So everything can be configured here.
So whenever a pod uses a service account, it can inherit whatever permission the service account has.
So if these two permissions are associated, then the token that gets added as part of the pod, that
token will also have both of these permissions.
Now let's switch to important pointer number three.
Now this states that the default service accounts in each namespace gets no permission by default other
than the default API discovery that Kubernetes grants to all the authenticated principals if Rbac is
enabled.
Now, if you remember in the earlier video, we had taken the token that was mounted as part of the
pod to perform the Curl operation.
And in the curl operation we got certain output here.
So this is what is referenced as part of this point, which states that apart from the default API discovery
permission that we were able to do as part of the Curl command, no other permission is granted by default.
So using that token, the application cannot create a new port or it cannot delete an existing pod or
it cannot create any other objects as part of Kubernetes cluster.
So this is what it refers to.
Now, the next important point is related to assigning pods to service account.
Again, this is important area to note which states that if you deploy a pod in a namespace and if you
don't manually assign a service account, then Kubernetes assigns the default service account for that
namespace to a pod.
Very important part to remember.
For example, if you just create a new pod using kubectl run command, so that pod will have a default
service account that will be associated with it unless and until you specify any other service account
that needs to be associated.
Now, I wanted to make this clear practically.
So at this stage we had created a new namespace of Labs hyphen test.
So if you create a new pod, let's just call it as nginx hyphen pod in the namespace of labs hyphen
test.
So when you run such command, since we have not really specified what is the service account that should
be associated with this pod?
Kubernetes by default will associate the default service account with Nginx pod.
Let's try this out.
All right.
So we missed specifying the image.
Let's also do that.
Great.
So our nginx pod is created.
Let's clear the screen.
Now.
If I do kubectl get pods in the namespace of cape labs hyphen test.
Our nginx pod is running now in a similar way.
If you do a kubectl describe pod nginx hyphen pod.
If you go a bit up.
You see, a service account of default is associated with the pod, even without you mentioning it.
All right.
And within the mount section, you'll also see the exact path where the token is mounted.
So this is the exact path, which is Var Run Secrets, Kubernetes, IO Service Account.
So let's connect to the pod and verify if a token is available.
I'll say kubectl exec hyphen t nginx pod in the namespace of Cape Labs hyphen test and we'll connect
through bash.
All right, Now if you go to Var run within here, you have a folder of secrets within the Secrets you
have Kubernetes, IO.
Within here you have a folder of service accounts.
Within here you have the token.
And if you do a cat on token, you'll see a token is available.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood what this specific pointer is all about.
Now, again, note that it is not compulsory to have a default service account if you do not want a
default service account.
If you want another service account that you have created manually to be associated with a pod, that
can also be done.
Now, in the next slide, I have just added the description on how you can go ahead and access the token
along with the screenshot so that if you revise it at a later stage, things becomes easier to understand.
Great.
So I hope with this video things have become much more clear related to the service accounts.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Service Accounts - Practical Scenarios ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we are going to discuss about two of the basic scenarios related to service
accounts that you should be aware from exam perspective.
The scenario number one is that you should know on how you can create the service accounts.
Now, the overall command is very simple, which is kubectl create service account followed by the name.
So this should create a service account in the appropriate namespace that you have specified.
The second important scenario that you should be aware is how you can mount custom service accounts
to pods, for example.
At this stage we know that if you create a pod without specifying a service account, a default service
account gets associated with it.
But what happens if you do not want a default service account?
You want another service account to be associated with a pod.
This scenario is also something that you should be aware of.
The overall solution is very simple.
In the pod manifest in the spec, there is a service account name where you can specify the service
account that should be associated with the pod.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try both of these scenarios practically so that we do not have any other confusion
related to service accounts.
Now from my CLI, if you quickly do a kubectl get service account, you will see that there is a default
service account that is created.
That is fine.
So let's also go ahead and try to create a new service account.
I'll say kubectl create service account.
You can give any name, let's just call it as custom hyphen service account.
All right.
Now if you do a kubectl get service account, you see there is one more service account that got created.
The second important scenario is that you should know on how you can mount this custom service account
to the pod.
Now, as we are discussing, the overall solution is very simple.
In the spec section there is a service account name where you can specify the custom service account
name here.
Now you don't really have to remember this from exam perspective.
Now, within the Kubernetes documentation, the overall details are quite extensive.
So within here you will see how you can mount the appropriate service account to the pod.
So under the spec section, you have a service account name followed by the name of the service account.
So let's in fact try it out.
In fact, I'll also add the link of this URL in our GitHub page so that you can easily reference to
it.
So let's try to do a little differently.
I'll say Kubectl run, let's call it as custom pod with the image of Nginx and I'll say dry run is equal
to client output is Yaml, so this should automatically create a manifest for us.
And where do we want to store our manifest?
Let's just call it as custom hyphen pod hyphen SC dot yaml.
All right, So in this folder, this file would be created with the manifest.
Now, if you go to the folder, a file is created.
If I open this file, you see a base manifest is already available.
So now under the spec section, you have to specify service account name followed by the name.
So the name of our service account, let's quickly verify was custom hyphen s so you can specify custom
hyphen.
S All right.
This is also one way or in the exams.
If you have such requirement, you can directly copy the manifest from your.
This also works.
Whichever you can do it in lowest amount of time is something that you should do anyways.
Let me just remove the areas that are not really required as of now so that our manifest remains smaller.
All right, I'll save this.
And from here you can do a cube.
Ctl apply on the file of custom pod pods.
Great.
Now, if we'll quickly do a cube, Ctl get pods.
You should see our custom pod that is running.
If you do a cube, Ctl, describe Pod Custom pod and just verify the service account here You should
see this time the service account is custom hyphen SE.
Great.
So these are the two basic practical scenarios that you should be aware from service account perspective
here.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Named Port ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the named port.
Now, whenever we are writing a specification for a port where a specific port is exposed, you would
know that the specification looks something similar to this, where under the spec containers we specify
port, and under that we specify container port followed by the port that needs to be exposed.
Now this is the regular approach.
Along with this, you can also associate a name for this port.
So here, along with the container port, you have also associated a name of Http.
So this is what is referred as the named port.
Now, one of the question that comes is what is the use for this specific named port?
So let's quickly find it out.
Now, one of the benefits of named port is that it can be referenced within the service file.
Now, if you look into this spec section, so this is a spec section of a service file.
So if you see this is a node port based service.
Now on the port side, we have specified port 80.
However, on the target port, we have specified Http instead of a port over here.
So if you see over here associated with this Http name port, you have a container port of 80.
So even though if you specify under the target port Http, things will work perfectly well.
So this is what is one of the benefit of named port.
So let's quickly jump into practical and understand on how it works.
So I'm in the CLI.
So in the first use case, let's quickly create a pod with the name of Nginx.
The image of Nginx will specify a port of 80 over here.
And let's quickly do a dry run of client and the output of Yaml.
So this is how it looks like.
So under the spec section, if you see you have a container port, but there is no name that is associated
with it.
So we'll intentionally go ahead and create a pod without a named port over here.
Now along with this pod, we'll also create a service.
So let's do a cube.
Ctl Expose Pod.
The name of the pod is Nginx, the name of the service, let's call it as first SVC, the port here,
let's specify as 80.
So this is the service port and the target port.
Let's specify Http and the type of this service.
Let's keep it as node port for easy testing.
Great.
So our services created.
Let's quickly do a kubectl get SVC.
So here our service is created as expected.
It is listening on the node port.
So just to get more detail associated with the service, let's do an output of Yaml.
So under here you see the protocol is TCP and the target port is Http.
So now let's verify if it works as expected.
So let's quickly do a cube.
Ctl get nodes on the output of white.
So these are basically the public IP address of the worker node.
Now since we already have a node port service, if we send a request to any of the public IP on a specific
node port, it will work.
So let's try it out.
So first let's get the node port.
So the node port is 32227.
So let's do a curl on any one of the worker node IP followed by the port.
And immediately here you see it is saying connection refused, failed to connect.
Great.
So now in the second use case, we'll go ahead and specify a named port and then we'll expose a service
based on that.
So we'll run the kubectl run.
This time let's call the name of Nginx to let's do a dry run of client.
The output of Yaml and we'll say port underscore name dot yaml.
And within this let's specify a named port.
So let's say name is equal to custom Http.
All right.
So we have a named port associated here.
Now let's go ahead and do a kubectl apply.
Great.
So our pod of Nginx two is created.
Now, in a similar way for creating a service, let's go ahead and change the name.
Let's call it as named hyphen SVC.
And the name of the pod is Nginx two.
Now here also, you have to make sure that you specify a right name.
So let's quickly verify what was the name that we had specified.
So the name is custom hyphen Http.
So let's modify this.
I'll say custom hyphen http.
Great.
So our service is created.
Let's go ahead and do a kubectl get service.
And this is the name service.
Again, it is listening on a node port of 31566.
So now let's go ahead and do a curl.
This time let's specify the node port.
And you see it is working perfectly as expected.
Again, let me quickly show you the named service configuration.
So under the target port, if you would see instead of specifying a port number like 80, we have specified
a name which is custom hyphen Http, and this works perfectly well.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood the benefits of named port and how we can reference
it as part of the service file.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Metrics Server ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the Matrix server.
Again an important topic from the perspective of production environments.
So let's get started.
Now, one thing that we have to keep a note of is that by default, Kubernetes does not provide the
resource usage matrix.
For example, let's say there are multiple pods that are running in your Kubernetes cluster, and for
each pod, you want to see metrics related to CPU and memory related details.
So all of these details by default are not available in Kubernetes.
So in case if you require this then matrix server is important.
When you install matrix server in Kubernetes it will collect the resource usage data like CPU and memory
from the Kubelet that is running on each node.
And this data, it makes it available using the Kubernetes metrics API.
So for example, the screenshot that you see over here where you have the CPU related data, memory
related data, all of this gets available after you have matrix server that gets installed in Kubernetes.
Now, once the matrix server is installed, there are two important commands that we have to keep a
note of.
First one is the kubectl top pods.
Now using this command, it shows us the CPU and memory usage for all of the running pods in the cluster
or in a given namespace based on the requirement.
So this is something that we were seeing in the earlier slide also.
So this command is made available only after you have matrix server installed and running.
And the second important command is the kubectl top nodes.
So this command displays the CPU and memory usage across all the nodes as part of your Kubernetes cluster.
So in case if you have control plane node in case if your worker node it will show you CPU as well as
memory related utilization.
Let's go ahead and have a quick demo to understand this in a better terms.
Now in a default configuration where you do not have the metrics server configured.
When you run a command like kubectl, top pods immediately states that the metric API is not available.
And same with kubectl top nodes.
You will get the same error.
So this is the reason why once you have the metrics server configured, the details will be sent to
the appropriate metrics API.
Now in a different tab I already have the metrics server configured.
So when you do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of kube system, you see I have metrics server pod
that is running in this specific cluster.
And since the metrics server is available when you do a kubectl top pods over here, you will get the
details like the CPU and memory related metrics.
Now this will only show you for the default namespace or the namespace that you have configured.
In case if you would like to see across the cluster, you can say something like kubectl top pods across
all of the namespaces.
And now for all of the pods that are running, you will see the CPU and memory related data here.
This is one part.
Second thing that we were discussing is the node specific data.
So when you run kubectl top nodes here also for each node like for each worker node, also you will
get the percentage of CPU utilization as well as memory related data both in terms of bytes as well
as percentage.
So this proves to be very useful in the production environments if things are not really working as
expected.
Great.
So I hope with this at a very high level overview, you understood the importance of having the metrics
server configured as part of your Kubernetes cluster.
Aim of today's video was to just understand the importance of it, and we'll have a separate practical
video related to configuring the metrics server.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Metrics Server ---

Harry one.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing about the importance of Matrix Server.
In today's video we will go ahead and configure Matrix Server for Kubernetes environment.
And then we'll look into the kubectl top pods and the kubectl top nodes command over here.
Now before we do that I also wanted to share that there is a specific repository associated with the
matrix server that is available.
And here you will get lot more information related to it.
You will also get installation specific information.
If you have a highly available Kubernetes cluster, then they have a specific YAML file available.
You can also install it through helm and other information is available now.
I have added the details of the official repository as part of our GitHub for you to reference.
However, what we are going to do, we are going to use the exact command that I have added as part
of the git repository to install the matrix server here.
So what we are going to do at this stage, Before we do that, you can try running a command like kubectl
top pods.
As expected, it is showing that the metric API is not available.
This is fine.
Let's go ahead and run this command, which will go ahead and install the metrics server for our cluster.
Now once you have done that, when you do a kubectl get pods, basically the metrics server related
pod will be configured in the kube system namespace.
So if I do with the namespace of kube system, this is the pod that we are interested in.
Now.
Initially it can take a little amount of time, maybe a minute or two for this pod to be up and running.
So currently it is not ready only and only after it gets ready.
Then you can start with the commands.
So in fact let's go ahead and reverify.
So currently our metrics server pod is up and running.
This is good.
Now when you do kubectl top pods command over here.
You see this time we are not really getting an error.
In fact, it is showing us the CPU and the memory related metrics.
Similarly, if you want to see the details of all of the ports, you can say something like kubectl
get pods with hyphen a for all of the namespaces, and for all of the namespaces you will get the details.
In fact, we ran a wrong command here.
You should do kubectl top pods with hyphen a and for all of the pods, even for the pods in the kube
system namespace, you get the CPU as well as memory related data.
This is one part.
And also as we know you can run the kubectl top nodes command over here.
So it will give you the node specific information.
Like currently I only have one worker node as part of the cluster.
It gives you CPU, CPU percentage, memory memory percentage.
Great.
So the overall installation and configuration process of Matrix Server is very straightforward.
I hope with this you understood the overall practicals and with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Horizontal Pod Auto-Scaling ---

Harry one.
And welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the horizontal pod autoscaling in Kubernetes.
Now, one thing that we have to keep a note of is that workloads in Kubernetes clusters are not always
static, and the workloads can fluctuate based on the user demand, traffic spikes, or sometimes even
due to the computational requirements.
Let's take an example where you have certain set of users and when they visit some application or websites
that are hosted in Kubernetes, the traffic is redirected to the appropriate pod.
Now, when you have a single pod that is running, it can take certain level of traffic.
It cannot take millions of requests.
So let's say in the upcoming weeks, maybe during the weekend when the amount of traffic increases towards
the Kubernetes.
In such cases, what will happen is that this single pod might not be able to handle all of the traffic
in such case.
Ideally, what you would like to do is you would like to have multiple set of pods, preferably in multiple
set of worker nodes that can distribute the incoming traffic that Kubernetes receives.
and this way the overall user experience will be much more better.
Now, generally in providers like AWS and even in other providers, you have a dedicated service of
auto scaling.
What happens there when the number of requests or number of CPU utilization increases of an existing
application, then the cloud provider will automatically increase the number of servers to handle the
traffic.
In a similar way, even in Kubernetes, using the horizontal pod autoscaler, referred to as HPA, it
can automatically adjust the number of running pods as part of deployment based on certain factors like
the CPU utilization, the memory usage, or it can also be certain metrics.
So let's take an example where there are certain set of requests.
Kubernetes is able to handle it perfectly in a worker node where you have two set of pods that are running
now in the weekend or in the holiday season, when you have more number of requests and you know that
these requests might not be taken care by the existing pods that are running because they are already
overloaded with the other request.
Then using the Horizontal Pod autoscaler, you can go ahead and maybe in the different worker node,
multiple set of additional pods can be created and these requests can be distributed across the pods.
So this function of creating new set of pods based on certain metrics like CPU utilization, memory
usage, etc. is achieved using the horizontal Pod autoscaler feature.
Now, the overall architecture would look something similar to this, where you have a existing replica,
set or deployment that is created, and this deployment or replica set is managing certain number of
pods.
Now you also have a horizontal pod autoscaler that you have configured.
Now what this horizontal Pod autoscaler will do.
It will monitor the CPU or the memory usage or any custom metrics that you have configured.
And in case if the CPU utilization of, say, pod one and part two is 100%, then the horizontal Pod
autoscaler will automatically scale the deployment to increase the number of pods, so it will automatically
does the scale out operation, which is adding new pods when the resource usage increases.
This is one part and also when the CPU utilization of pod decreases.
So let's say you have Monday, and now the average CPU utilization is just 10% at a pod level.
So you do not really want more number of pods of that application to be running because unnecessarily
it will be consuming resources.
So in such case, horizontal pod autoscaler will also perform the scaling in, which is removing the
extra pods when the overall resource usage decreases.
So let's also quickly look into the overall HPA workflow.
So in this specific screenshot you see that at this stage you have a CPU utilization of say 2% and the
target is 50%, the minimum pod is one, maximum pod is three, and currently the replica is one.
That means there is only one pod that is running as part of the deployment called PHP Apache.
So now what this means is that the target utilization is 50%.
So if the consumption of the ports that are part of this PHP Apache deployment is 50% in terms of CPU
utilization, then the horizontal pod autoscaler will increase the number of pods up to the maximum
pods that you have configured, which is three.
So at this stage you see currently you have 2%, but suddenly the number of spike has increased.
So it has gone to 380%, it has gone to 902%, etc..
So as soon as the spike increased, you will see that the replica count has also increased.
So earlier it was one, so there was one pod that was running.
Now it is three.
So based on the target metric that you have configured, the pods have automatically been created.
Additionally this is one part.
Now below you see from 323% the load has decreased back to 2% over here.
And similar to that, the replica count has changed from 3 to 1.
So when the load increased, the number of pods increased.
When the load decreased, the additional pods that were created have also been removed.
So all of this can be achieved using the Horizontal Pod autoscaler.
So let's do one thing.
Let's have a quick demo so that this part becomes much more clear to us.
Now for today's video, if I quickly do a kubectl get pods over here currently you see I have one pod
that is running.
It is running as part of the deployment.
In fact, when I do kubectl get deployment, you see at this stage this is the deployment.
And from this deployment you have one pod that is created.
This is one part.
Along with that I also have the horizontal pod autoscaler that is configured.
Now you have 2% over here and you have 50% which is the target.
So when the target gets hit, then the horizontal pod autoscaler will increase the number of pods from
minimum pod, which is one that is currently running to the maximum number of pods that you have configured,
which is three replicas means there is only one port that is currently running out of maximum of three
ports.
And this is the reason.
Also, as we know, we only have one port that you see over here.
So what we are going to do, we are going to make multiple set of requests to the application that is
running as part of the port, and we'll see on how the horizontal pod autoscaler will add the number
of pods.
So what we are going to do, we are going to watch this so that any changes gets reflected over here.
And from the second terminal tab we are going to create one more pod that is going to send the request
to the application pod that is running and that request, because you are sending multiple set of requests,
the CPU utilization of the application pod will increase.
You see these are the requests that are being sent now if you look into the utilization.
So for example if I do kubectl top pods this is the utilization over here.
Soon the utilization will increase and you will see that as part of the deployment the newer pods will
be created.
So here you see earlier you had 2%.
Now it is 86%.
And at this stage the number of pods is still one.
And then as part of the third event, the number of replicas.
So the number of pods have increased from 1 to 2.
And then the number of pods have been increased from 1 to 3.
So for example now if you do kubectl get pods, you see now there are in total of three application
pods that are currently running.
So let's also go ahead and do a control C over here so that the traffic stops towards our application.
Great.
So I hope with this at a very high level overview you understood the basics of the Horizontal Pod autoscaler.
Now one more point that we have to keep a note of is that the horizontal pod autoscaler does not apply
to objects that cannot be scaled like Daemonsets, so only the objects that can be scaled like replica
set deployments.
The horizontal Pod autoscaler will support that.
I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the advantages that this specific feature
offers and with this will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Horizontal Pod AutoScaler ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing at an overview about the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler, today
is going to be the practical video where we will go ahead and test the entire workflow.
Now, before we start, one very important point that we have to keep a note is that horizontal pod
autoscaler requires metrics server.
So if you run command like kubectl top pods over here you get certain utilization like CPU memory.
So this information is very important for the horizontal pod autoscaler to work.
So make sure that you have the metrics server installed and configured correctly.
Once you have the prerequisite what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and create a simple
deployment based on a simple PHP based application.
And we are also going to create a service.
And then we are going to create the horizontal pod.
Autoscaler configuration will send multiple set of requests to this specific service, will in turn
will forward the request to the pods as part of the deployment.
And then we'll see on how the horizontal pod autoscaler scales in as well as scales out.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do that I'll copy this.
And within here let's create a file of deployment.yaml.
I'll add this.
Basically it is deployment and it is the service I'll save this.
And let's go ahead and quickly create the resources.
Great.
Once you have this created when you do a kubectl get pods currently as expected you only have one pod
running.
And if you look into the deployment, you also have one deployment that is currently running.
Now as part of the step number two, what we are going to do, we are going to create a horizontal pod
autoscaler related configuration.
So this is very simple.
You have kubectl auto scale deployment the name of the deployment.
So if you see the name of the deployment is PHP hyphen Apache.
So you have kubectl auto scale what we want to auto scale.
We want to auto scale deployment.
What is the name of deployment?
The name of deployment is PHP Apache.
And based on what metric do we want to auto scale?
The metric is the CPU percentage 50 minimum is one, maximum is three.
So when you have high number of load, what are the maximum number of pods you want to get created.
So maximum number we have set it to be three.
In fact you can also do cube CTL auto scale, hyphen hyphen help.
You will get all of the details over here.
So here you see you have cube CTL auto scale deployment name of deployment minimum and maximum.
Similarly the horizontal pod autoscaler also works with replication controller.
So in case if you are using that you can use RC and other things remains to be the same.
So this is one point that needs to be noted.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll copy this command I'll add it over here.
Once this is created, when you do a cube CTL, get horizontal pod autoscaler.
At this stage these are all the details.
Now it takes a little amount of time.
Give it 25 to 30s because here the replicas is zero and here you are also getting unknown.
This is fine.
Just give it a moment for this to be updated.
So when you run this again you see this part is updated and this part is updated.
So now the horizontal pod autoscaler.
Using the matrix, it will verify that whatever pods that are running as part of deployment are not
reaching this specific statistics of 50%, in case if it reaches it will automatically autoscale.
So let's do that.
So as part of our testing what we are going to do in terminal tab one, we are going to run the kubectl
get HPA, the name of HPA.
And we are going to run hyphen hyphen watch.
So it will detect the changes.
So in the tab one.
I'll clear the screen.
I'll run this command from the terminal.
Tab two we are going to create one more port called Load Generator.
And this port is very simple in fact let's try it out first.
What this port will do.
It is sending the request to the service that we have created.
And service in turn, will send a request to the appropriate ports.
All right.
So let's go ahead and press enter.
So this will start to send a request to the service.
And when this happens you will see that the CPU utilization part over here will be updated.
And when CPU utilization crosses the target, the horizontal pod autoscaler will automatically scale
the deployment over here.
So at this stage we see that it has reached 107 2% because of the load.
And immediately now what happened earlier the replicas was one.
And after the number of load has increased, the replicas is now three.
So if you try to run kubectl get pods over here.
Oops.
Let's try again.
You see, the number of pods of our PHP is three.
Now one more thing that you will notice is that the two pods over here are pending.
Now, the reason why they are pending is not because of some misconfiguration, but because the cluster
that we are running is a very minimal cluster, so it does not really have too much CPU or memory to
run multiple sets of pods.
So when you do kubectl describe pods, let's look into one of the pods over here.
You see it says insufficient CPU.
And this is the reason why the new pods, although they are created by the horizontal pod autoscaler,
but they are in the pending state.
This is fine if you have a good amount of resources as part of your Kubernetes cluster.
These pods will also continue to run.
Now, before we proceed further, one more thing that I wanted to share.
Let's go ahead and stop sending the request to the service.
So this will decrease the overall load towards the pod.
And now the scale in operation will happen where the additional pods that were created will be removed.
So we'll watch this before we do that.
One more thing that I wanted to share.
In fact, if you look into the deployment over here now, if you want a horizontal pod autoscaler to
work correctly, then whatever deployment that you create, it should also have this part of request.
And in this case, since we are using CPU, you have to specify CPU.
This is important.
Otherwise the horizontal pod autoscaler will not really work.
Now at this stage we see that the CPU utilization has decreased.
However, the scaling operation has not yet occurred.
So for example, if you do kubectl get pods at this stage, you see you have three pods that are still
running.
So within your one point that you have to keep a note is that when scale out operation happens.
So when suddenly huge amount of request comes towards the pods and the CPU utilization increases, then
horizontal pod autoscaler will increase the number of pods as part of the deployment immediately.
It will not wait for too long, however, contrary, if suddenly the load has decreased then the horizontal
pod autoscaler will take time.
It will not immediately remove the existing pod, so you can expect 4 to 5 minutes window and after
that after say 300 seconds.
If horizontal pod autoscaler determines that the load is still less, then it will remove the additional
pods that have been created.
So this is one point that we have to keep a note of.
So let's keep it running so that we can look into both the scale out as well as the scale in operation,
because scale out has happened.
But at this stage the scaling is still pending.
So till the time we get the appropriate events, let's also explore the documentation related to the
horizontal pod auto scaling.
So what?
It states that the HPA automatically updates a workload resource such as deployment or stateful set,
with the aim of automatically scaling the workload to match the demand.
This is something that we know.
Now let's go a bit down.
These are all the algorithm details and all.
We'll just skip it because at this stage it is not important.
Now as we are discussing that the support for resource metrics.
So in our example the scaling happened based on the CPU utilization.
So here this point is important which states that when defining the Pod specification the resource requests
like CPU and memory should be specified.
So here we had specified the CPU over here.
So this is quite important.
Along with that let's go a bit down.
So you have the option of scaling based on custom metrics.
So CPU is something that we saw.
But in case if there are custom metrics, that is also possible.
Now the next part is the stabilization window.
So stabilization window is used to restrict flapping of replica count when metric used for scaling keep
fluctuating.
Now specifically this is for scale down.
We saw that how when the CPU utilization decreased our additional pods are not immediately removed.
So there is that time period or waiting period that comes into picture and that you can configure using
the stabilization window depending upon the requirement.
Now coming back to the terminal this time you see the replica count was 333, three.
But after certain amount of time you see the replica count has scaled down back to one.
Now if you run the kubectl get pods command again, you only have one pod that is running.
And as we are discussing, when you have the scale out operation, it ideally should be pretty fast.
But when you have scaling operation, Ideally, it should be a little slow.
Even if you have higher number of resources, it is not going to affect too much.
The users are going to be happy anyways, but you do not really want the scaling operation where the
HP has removed the additional port and suddenly additional traffic has started to come towards the website
and suddenly your website has become slow.
So the default behavior as we know can be modified based on the requirements of the organization.
So once you have done that, what you can do, you can go ahead and delete the setup.
So let's quickly do that.
So I'll quickly do a control C I'll delete the deployment and the service.
Then we'll delete the horizontal pod autoscaler specific configuration.
And the pod that might be running based on the load generator.
In case if it is running you can delete that.
In case not it is fine.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the practical part of the horizontal pod
autoscaler.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- HPA - Stabilization Window ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the stabilization window as part of the Horizontal
Pod autoscaler configuration.
Now generally when we work with HPA, when we discuss about the scale up operation, it does not really
take too much time.
For example, here you see you have a deployment of PHP Apache.
Now you have 2% of 50%.
So 50% is the target utilization post which the horizontal pod autoscaler will increase the number of
pods.
Now, when the CPU utilization was less, the total number of pods that were created were just one.
Now slowly the number of utilization increased from 2%.
It increased to 380% and then it increased to 902%, etc..
Now as soon as it increased.
So here you had replica of one at 90s where the higher CPU load was detected, and then at 106 seconds,
which is approximately 16 seconds more, the number of replicas as part of the deployment were increased
to two three.
So this scale up operation did not really take much time.
Contrary to that, when you look a bit down at this stage, you see from 323%, the load decreased to
7% again.
Now since the load decreased, we would expect that the HPA will scale down the pods in a similar time
frame that it had used for the scale up operation.
So at two minutes 46 seconds the CPU utilization decreased.
The number of pods were still three.
Now at three minutes again you have three.
At seven minutes, 31 seconds.
Again you have three, and at seven minutes 46 seconds you have one.
So it took around five minutes for the scale down operation to take place.
However, scale up operation was pretty quick.
Now the question that comes is why exactly is this?
Now when we discuss about the production environments, note that sometimes the temporary metric drop
can create rapid scale down of the pods, which might cause the service instability.
Now, generally when you have higher number of pods than what are required for the end user perspective,
it is not really going to make any difference.
In fact, the website might be much more faster.
However, if the number of pods are lower, then the end user is going to get affected and this is something
that you do not really want.
And this is the reason.
By default, Kubernetes adds the stabilization window specific configuration that adds the delay before
the pods are downscaled.
So for upscale there is no delay.
For downscale, there is a delay.
And this in fact is suitable for the production environment perspective.
So at a high level overview the stabilization window configuration, it tells the HPA to wait for a
certain period of time before it can scale down.
Now when we look into the default stabilization window, the scale up is zero, so there is no delay
as part of the scale up operation.
However, scale down operation, there is a delay of 300 seconds, which is a five minute delay.
And this is something that we already saw as part of the screenshot as well.
Now both of them can be added as part of the HPA.
So for scale down, the default configuration as we know is 300 seconds.
For scale up it is zero seconds.
In case if you would like, you can go ahead and configure it based on the requirements as well.
Now once you have modified the stabilization window for scaling down operation from 300 seconds default
to 60s, you can observe the workflow now.
Now, similar to the first screenshot, initially you had one replica of the deployment.
Suddenly the load increased and in a moment you see from 38 seconds to 90s immediately.
Now you have five replicas as part of the deployment.
Now once the load decreased because from here at this stage, the load decreased from 712% to 2%.
So this happened at two minutes 30s and at three minutes 30s exactly after 60s the number of replicas
reduced from 5 to 1.
one.
So here you did not really have to wait for five minutes for the scaling down operation to complete
after you have modified the configuration here.
So let's go ahead and look into it so that this part can make better sense.
Now within the documentation of horizontal pod auto scaling, there is a specific area of stabilization
window as we are discussing.
And the main area here is the scale down.
And within here as we are discussing by default you have the 300 seconds.
So this is the default behavior.
In case if you would like you can go ahead and modify this based on the requirement.
Now in order to test it out first we are going to go ahead and quickly create a new deployment.
So let's go ahead and quickly create this deployment I'll copy this and I'll just paste it.
So it is basically the combination of service and deployment I'll save this.
And from the terminal I'll go ahead and I'll quickly create this deployment.
Once this is done.
The next part is we are going to create a horizontal pod autoscaler with the stabilization window.
Now, if you will see as part of the horizontal Pod autoscaler configuration, here we are targeting
the deployment call as the PHP Apache and the name of the deployment was PHP Apache.
The minimum replica is one, maximum replica is five, and we are targeting based on the CPU utilization.
And the most important part this time is the behavior.
And we are targeting the scale down.
And the stabilization window is 60s.
So there will be a 62nd of delay that would come into picture.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll create one more file.
Let's copy this and I'll save this.
Now let's go ahead and quickly create the Horizontal Pod autoscaler.
Once this is done you can just do kubectl get HPA and verify that the HPA has been created.
You can just wait for a moment because at this stage it is unknown.
It can take 2 to 3 minutes for the data to get populated.
Great.
So it has been populated.
so it took around 20s and we have the data available.
Great.
Once you have the horizontal Pod autoscaler configuration in place, the next part is the testing.
So what we are going to do, we are going to watch the horizontal Pod autoscaler from the tab number
one.
So at this stage as we know that for our deployment the minimum is one, the maximum is five.
And currently there is only one replica that is available.
So from a different tab when you do kubectl get pods, you will see that there is only one pod that
is available here.
So from the next tab we are going to increase the load.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
We are going to increase the load so that the horizontal pod autoscaler will increase the number of
replicas.
So I'll copy this.
Great.
So this is sending multiple set of requests to the service.
And here you see the load has started to increase.
Now as the load has started to increase.
The number of replicas have also started to increase as part of the deployment.
Great.
And now you see we have total of five replicas that are available.
Now let's go ahead and we'll do a control C.
So at this stage the request will not go to the service and the deployment.
So let's look into how much time it takes for the scale down operation to complete.
And now here you see let's do a control C.
So at this stage the CPU went to 2%.
This is way below.
And after some amount of time after approximately 60s the number of replicas were reduced from 5 to
1.
So this is much more faster when compared to the default scale down window of five minutes.
Alright, so I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the importance of the stabilization
window and again, make sure to delete the resources that you have created so that you have a clean
slate as part of the next lab.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Vertical Pod Auto-Scaler ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the Vertical Pod Autoscaler.
Now one thing that we have to keep a note of generally in production environments, you will see that
organizations will typically add the requests and limits as part of the pod manifest or the deployment
manifest, and in fact, this is a good practice.
However, one of the issues here is that in case if the developer or the administrator has set the request
and limits as part of the pod or the deployment manifest to too low, then in such cases, your app
might crash because your app will not really get the resources that it requires to run efficiently.
However, in case if you set the value to be too high, then you will be wasting the resources as part
of your cluster.
So specifically when we discuss about two high in such cases, even if your application is idle and
it is using very little CPU or memory, the requested amount that you might have added while creating
the resource, this requested amount is blocked off, and it cannot be used to schedule the other ports
onto the node.
So let's take an example where you have a worker node with three core and three GB Ram.
Now whenever you have created a pod.
Now for this pod, you have given a three core and three GB ram as a request.
So this is like a minimum.
However, Pod does not really require this much amount of resources.
Now the issue here is that although the pod got scheduled in the worker node, it is using way less
resource than it has requested.
However, since you have requested this as a minimum, this extra resources that is not being used,
this part will be blocked off.
So the scheduler will not really schedule other pods onto the node because this pod has requested for
the entire resources over here.
So ideally you would like a tool that will monitor the consumption of the CPU.
And based on that it can modify the request and maybe the limits to be adjusted accordingly in the production
environments.
And this is achieved using the Vertical Pod autoscaler.
At a high level overview, the VPA is the component that automatically adjusts the CPU and memory requests
for containers running within your pods.
So what it will do, it will give you the recommendation.
For example, the nginx container name.
This is the recommendation that it has been giving to you, and based on the recommendation, you can
either modify the request accordingly or if you want, the VPA can also do it for you in an automated
fashion.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and look into it from a demo perspective.
Then it will make things much more clear.
Now for today's demo I have an nginx deployment that is available.
Note that this is a demo video.
Now for this nginx deployment we have requested the CPU is this and the memory is this.
Now it can happen that the request is also too low or it can be too high.
Both the cases are available.
Now I also have a vertical port autoscaler that is available.
If you see I have a vertical port autoscaler that is available and this vertical pod autoscaler as we
know it can adjust the requests accordingly.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create this specific nginx deployment.
Now from a different tab when you do kubectl get pods, you see we have two pods that are currently
running.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and do kubectl get pods.
We'll watch this.
And meanwhile let's open this I'll do cube ctl describe pod.
We'll take one of the pods and we'll verify if you see the pod also has a request of CPU of 50 and memory
of 50 mi.
Now what the VPA will do is it will observe the overall utilization.
So it will require the metrics server.
It will observe the overall utilization.
And based on that it will adjust the request based on the optimal value.
Now when you do kubectl get VPA this time you see this part of CPU and memory has been populated.
And in fact you will also get the recommendation if you would like.
When I do kubectl describe vpa engine eks vpa within.
Here you will also get the appropriate recommendation from the VPA on what might be the appropriate
values.
Now one thing that you will notice over here is that there have been some events that has happened.
for example.
You see there are some ports that are terminating and some new ports that have been created.
So let's do one thing.
I'll just do a Ctrl C, we'll do a kubectl get pods.
And this time you see there is a new pod that got created which is 22 kHz, which was not really present
earlier.
Now when you look into this specific pod, let's do that.
When you look into this specific pod, if you will see automatically the request has been adjusted based
on the recommendation.
So the CPU is 25.
Earlier it was 50 and the memory has also been adjusted accordingly.
So if we just remember for the nginx deployment the CPU was 50 and the memory was 50.
So the memory we intentionally gave it a little less.
And the VPA was able to automatically adjust it based on the actual requirement and the consumption
and also CPU, it had lowered it as part of the requests.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the basics of the Vertical Pod autoscaler.
Now, before we conclude, one more pointer that I wanted to share specifically related to the update
mode for the VPC.
Now there are three primary update modes of initial and auto.
When you have update mode as of, VPA will only give you recommendations.
There will be no changes that would be applied in auto.
VPA actively applies the recommendation by evicting and restarting the pods.
So we saw on how some pods were getting terminated and new pods were getting created.
Why?
Because the VPA mode was auto.
You also have the initial mode, where VPI only assigns the resource request on pod creation and never
changes them later.
Now, let me in fact show you when you do kubectl get VPA you will see that here the mode is auto and
this was the reason why it was actually able to terminate the pod and the newer pods were recreated.
In case if the mode was set to off, it will only stick with the recommendation and it will not really
modify things.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the Vertical Pod autoscaler.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Vertical Pod Auto-Scaler ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video at the overview, we were discussing about the Vertical Pod autoscaler and
the benefits that it provides.
Today is going to be the practical video associated with it.
Now before we explore it practically, one point that we have to keep a note of is that in Kubernetes
by default, there is no specific resource type of vertical pod autoscaler, right?
If you see the server does not have the resource type of VPA.
So this is something that you will have to configure it first for it to work.
Now generally in the official Kubernetes repository associated with the autoscaler, there are multiple
types of autoscalers like the cluster autoscaler, vertical pod autoscaler.
We are more interested in the vertical pod autoscaler over here.
Within here they have provided you with the installation steps related to it.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now again I have created the setup guide to install the VPA.
So this is something that we are going to follow.
Now again note that first we'll have to clone this specific repository.
Then we are going to go ahead and install the necessary components required for the Vertical Pod autoscaler.
And then we'll start with the practical.
Now since this is like a script file, the easier way would be to run on Linux.
So in case if you have a windows, you can have a Linux server which can be configured to connect to
your Kubernetes cluster in case if it is a managed Kubernetes cluster like DigitalOcean, all you have
to do is install the kubectl in Linux and copy the kube config file from your Windows to Linux server.
All right.
So we are going to run it in Linux in case if you are using Mac.
Again there is no need to switch to Linux.
Mac already has the capability to directly run the script files, and you have to ensure that the git
utility is available.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll copy this from the Linux system.
I'll go ahead and I'll run the git clone.
So again this is based on ubuntu LTS.
And git is available here.
Great.
So this is done.
So this can take around two minutes for everything to be cloned once the repository is cloned.
If I do ls, you have a folder of autoscaler.
If we go inside the autoscaler folder, there are multiple files and subdirectories.
We are more interested in the vertical pod autoscaler.
So we'll go over here and inside here.
Also there are multiple files and directories.
From here we are going to run this second command which will set up the VPA for us.
So let's go ahead and run this.
Great.
So once you have done that let's go ahead and run the kubectl get VPA.
This time.
You see there are no errors.
This is good.
Once the VPA has been configured we are going to create a nginx deployment.
This is going to be a very simple deployment where you have a CPU and you have a memory CPU.
In such cases you can say that as part of the request it is a little over provisioned and memory is
a little under provisioned.
and then we'll see on how the VPA will automatically adjust them.
So let's go ahead and quickly create our nginx deployment.
So from the server I'll quickly do a nano I'll copy this I'll save this once.
Then you can just do cube CTL create on the nginx deployment.
Once this is done you can do kubectl get pods and ensure that both of the pods are running.
And if you do kubectl describe pod, you can take any of the pod over here just for an example.
You see that in the request you have CPU and memory both set to 50.
Now after the deployment is created.
Now we are going to create a VPA, this time with the update mode set to off.
Now we have discussed that there are multiple set of update modes that are available like off, auto
and so on.
So first we are going to create the VPA with the update mode to off.
In such cases, the VPA will only provide the recommendations and no changes will be applied.
So this is good when you are starting with the VPA.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll copy this.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's create a file called as vpa dot YAML.
I'll add the contents over here.
So the kind here is vertical pod autoscaler.
And within here in the target reference we have to specify what exactly we are targeting.
So we are targeting the deployment.
And the name of the deployment is nginx deployment.
And the most important is the update policy which is off.
So this is good.
Let's go ahead and quickly create the VPA.
Once the VPA is created from the second tab I'll just do kubectl get pods with watch.
As of now we have two pods that are available.
And you can also do kubectl get vpa.
At this stage VC you have cpu and memory.
The values are not populated.
This is expected.
It takes a little amount of time for the population to work.
And then the recommendations will be provided accordingly.
Now, since the update mode is set to off, it is ideally not going to touch the ports that are currently
running.
But just for reference, we are just watching it in case if there are any changes that it makes.
So now when you run the kubectl get VPA, you see the CPU and memory related details are available.
Now when you do kubectl describe vpa nginx vpa this is the most important part which is the recommendation.
So here it is giving you the recommendation on what might be the better value based on the requirement.
So here it is stating that the CPU can be 25 and this can be the memory.
So at this stage you see still there are no changes.
So now as part of the second step what we are going to do, we are going to change the update mode from
off to auto.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll copy this.
And we are going to edit our VPA.
And what we are targeting is this specific part update mode.
At this stage it is set to off.
So we'll just change it to auto.
And I'll save this once it has been saved.
Now you can monitor because ultimately based on the recommendation it is going to make changes.
And when it makes changes, the ports will get terminated and the newer ports will get created.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here.
So now you see immediately some of the ports are getting terminated.
Some of the ports are getting created based on the recommendations.
So let's just do a control C.
And when you do kubectl get pods you have a newer port that has just come up.
So when you do kubectl describe pod.
So this is the newer port.
When you do a describe on this specific pod you see the request has been modified from 50 to 25, and
the memory has also been modified over here.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of the Vertical Pod autoscaler and also the two important
modes of off and auto.
So now when you do kubectl get pods again, you see, after this pod was updated, now there is one
more pod that it is creating and both of the older pods have been removed.
Now one downside and you have to be a little careful here.
You see the first pod that has been created just now.
Let's do kubectl get pods again.
It is in the pending state.
So when you go ahead and do a kubectl describe pod will add the pod name.
You see we are getting error.
What is the error.
Insufficient memory.
Zero out of one nodes that are available.
So although the vertical pod autoscaler will adjust the memory and CPU many times, what happens?
The worker node does not really have that much amount of memory in cases where it has increased the
request of.
CPU and memory.
So in such cases, the newer pod will not really get launched.
And this is one very important area that you have to be careful for.
Great.
So once you have completed the practical, let's go ahead and also delete the resources that were created.
So first we'll delete the deployment.
So let's delete the deployment.
Then we'll delete the VPA.
And then we'll also remove the VPA in case if you would like.
So when I do kubectl get vpa this is available in case if you would like you can do that.
So again we'll go to the autoscaler vertical pod autoscaler.
Let's go over here and we'll run this specific command of VPA down.
All right.
Once this is done when you try kubectl get VPA again you see it says the server does not have resource
type of VPA.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Gateway API ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video at an overview, we are going to discuss about the gateway API.
Now one of the prerequisite for this specific video is your understanding about the ingress and the
ingress controller, because gateway API is related to them.
Now, just to revise, ingress is generally used to manage the external user access towards the services
as part of your cluster.
And again, this is quite common in the production environments.
Now if you'll quickly revise the basic workflow you have the ingress managed load balancer.
So client sends the request to the Ingress Managed Load balancer.
And from here the request is redirected towards the ingress and its associated objects.
Now within here you have certain set of rules based on the rules the traffic will be redirected to the
appropriate service.
Now again we had a detailed video on Ingress and Ingress controllers.
So make sure that you go ahead and watch that and ensure that your understanding is clear before proceeding
further.
Great.
Now, although ingress and egress controllers are used quite extensively in the production environments,
but it comes with its own set of limitations.
One of the primary limitations is that the ingress API primarily handles the HTTP and Https related
traffic.
Now for the production environments, you can have various other protocols as well, maybe TCP, UDP,
gRPC, and there are applications that work on those.
So just by using HTTP and Https protocols, you do not cater to all of the demands that the organizations
will have.
Along with that, the ingress also lacks native support for advanced traffic management features that
are generally required.
As part of the production scenarios.
We will be discussing about the second point in more detail once we understand the basics of gateway
API.
Now, at this stage, just note that there are certain limitations of ingress, and in order to overcome
these limitations, you have the gateway API project that was created.
Now, one of the great benefits of the gateway API is that it supports both the layer four as well as
layer seven protocols like TCP, UDP, you have HTTP, you also have gRPC, and there are many others
that are under the considerations.
This is one of the great benefits of gateway API when we compare it with the traditional ingress.
Now overall, the workflow architecture is quite similar to the ingress as well.
So you have a client.
This can be an external client who sends a request to the website that you have.
The request goes to the load balancer.
And from here you have the gateway API and the appropriate routing that you have created.
Based on these two, the traffic will be redirected to the appropriate service, and from those service
it will be directed to the appropriate ports.
So this is a classic example of path based routing where if the path is slash foo, it goes to the foo
service.
If the path is slash bar, it goes to the bar service.
Now again a lot of customization is possible but this is the basic architecture.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and look into it from the practical perspective so that things are much more clear post
which will be discussing things in more detail.
Now, similar to the workflow that we saw as part of the image, I also have an architecture that is
created.
So you have a load balancer.
In fact, let me show you this.
So currently in the DigitalOcean environment, you see I have a load balancer that is available.
And when we send a request to the load balancer it goes to the appropriate gateway controller which
fetches the gateway API related information, the HTTP route related information, and then the request
gets redirected to the appropriate service.
Now, before we go ahead and look into the gateway controller, let's go ahead and see what happens
when we make a request to the load balancer.
So this is the IP address of the load balancer.
And when I go ahead and I add it let's press enter in the output.
What we are getting.
It works.
So this is a simple web page which shows it works.
And this is coming from the port that is running in the cluster.
So within our cluster, if I'll quickly do kubectl get pods, you have one pod called as Apache pod
that is running.
And you also have one service.
If I do kubectl get service you have one very specific service called as Apache service.
And ultimately the requests that a client sends to the load balancer.
It goes to this Apache service.
And from there it goes to the Apache pod.
Now let me also quickly show you this so that there is no room of confusion.
So I'll quickly connect to the curl pod over here.
If I make a request to the Apache service in the output.
You see, we are getting eight works.
Now that we understand the workflow at a very high level.
Overview.
The next few components that I wanted to discuss is related to the gateway API and the HTTP route.
So let's just come out of it when I'll quickly do kubectl get gateway.
You see I have a ingenix gateway that is available.
And when I do kubectl CTL describe gateway and nginx gateway.
It shows you a lot of information.
Let's go a bit up.
So one of the important area here is the gateway class which is nginx.
It also shows you the IP address.
So this is the IP address that the external client can also connect to.
So it is 50 .245.
And if you see we had made a request to 50 .245 only now when I quickly do kubectl get pods in the namespace
of nginx gateway.
You see, we have certain pods that are running as part of this.
And when I do kubectl get service in the namespace of nginx gateway, you have a service of nginx gateway.
The type is load balancer and these are the external IPS.
So ultimately what happens is that this is the service responsible for creating the load balancer.
When the traffic goes to the load balancer from the load balancer it goes to the appropriate gateway
controller.
So these are the ports that acts as a gateway controller.
And these ports will fetch the information like the routing related details and others.
And based on that the traffic will be redirected to the appropriate service.
Now one thing that we saw over here is the HTTP route.
So for example when I'll quickly do cube CTL get HTTP route over here, you see we have one Apache route
that is available.
And when you do cube CTL describe HTTP route called as Apache route, you will see very similar to the
ingress.
This has rules.
Now what does the rule says in the back end reference.
The kind is service.
The name is Apache service.
The port is 80.
So what?
It means that as part of this HTTP route, any request.
Now again note that this HTTP route over here, this route is associated with a specific gateway which
is nginx gateway.
For example, if you just do a cube CTL get gateway over here.
You had this nginx gateway and this nginx gateway used the nginx class.
And we also had the nginx based gateway controllers.
And this is the address.
This address is basically the IP address of the load balancer.
So what it means is that for this specific nginx gateway, these are the rules that are being created
as part of the HTTP route.
And there is only one rule at this stage.
And the rule is very simple.
Whenever a request is received, that request should go to the Apache service on the port of 80.
And we already know if you will see, we already know that we have a Apache service that is running
and when we test it, when we sent a request to the Apache service, we got it works as the output.
All right.
So this is the basics of gateway API.
Now let's take one step further to see some of the benefits that it offers when compared with ingress.
Now one of the great benefits that it offers is related to the HTTP traffic splitting slash waiting.
So at an overview, this specific approach is the process of sending the incoming request to multiple
back end service based on the predefined weights.
So for example, if you want that whatever request that comes to the load balancer, 99% of that request
should go to the echo one service.
1% of the request should go to the echo two service.
So this is used for a wide variety of scenarios for testing and others.
So when you have this kind of an approach this is possible using the gateway API.
So as part of the route rules like the HTTP routes that we saw, you can also set the appropriate weights
for the backends.
For example let's go back now within here you see in the back end over here you have weight of one.
So since you only have one back end, 100% of the requests will go over here.
But in case if you have multiple backends and multiple services and if you want to define, say, out
of 100 requests, 80 requests should go to Apache Service 20.
Requests should go to nginx service.
So all of that customization is also possible.
Let's also quickly look into it at a high level overview.
Now as part of this specific demo I have removed the older HTTP route and I have added one more route
over here.
The name of the route is Traffic split.
Now when you do kubectl describe http route traffic split, you will see this time you have two services
in the back end.
So over here you have two services.
This is the first service called as nginx service.
And this is the second service called as Apache Service.
And using the weights over here you can distribute.
So here you have weight of two.
You have weight of one.
So more number of requests will go to the nginx service when compared to the Apache service.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So within here if I refresh you see the request is going to nginx service.
If I refresh more again nginx service.
If I refresh again, this time it is going to Apache service.
If I refresh it goes to nginx again.
If I refresh, it goes to nginx.
And if I refresh again, this time it goes to Apache.
So more number of requests are going to nginx service when compared to the Apache service.
And this is achieved using this specific feature.
Now along with that there are various other features that the gateway API supports that ingress does
not provide.
For example you can also go ahead and modify the HTTP headers.
This again is quite interesting and helps in wide variety of scenarios.
Now, before we conclude few things that I wanted to share before we conclude this video.
Now again this is just an example.
You have various others like HTTP redirect rewrites.
Traffic splitting is something that we saw.
You have the request mirroring, cross namespace routing and so on.
Now at this stage we know that ingress primarily supports the HTTP and Https, but the gateway API also
supports various other protocols like TCP, gRPC, and so on.
So all of these related guides are also available in the official documentation.
Now, I wanted to share a few more pointers from the documentation.
Let's go ahead and read it so it becomes much more clear.
So here it states that gateway API project is the successor of the ingress API.
So this is one point to note.
Along with that, the documentation also gives you various reasons that you should look into.
If you want to switch to the gateway API from the ingress.
Like the ingress has limited set of features, it has insufficient permission models and so on.
And it also shows you multiple set of differences between the ingress API and the gateway API.
This is one part.
Second part is related to the FAQ.
Sometimes you see that questions comes is that since gateway API offers much more better features,
will the ingress API be deprecated or will it be removed in the upcoming set of versions?
So this is where the FAQs are helpful.
So this specific one will gateway API replace the ingress API.
The answer is no.
The ingress API is GA since 1.9.
And there are no plans to deprecate this specific API, and we expect most Ingress controller to support
it indefinitely.
And this is good because ingress and egress controllers are used quite extensively in the production
environments.
So even though you have a gateway API that supports much more better features, but for the existing
set of production environments that are heavily reliant on ingress and egress API and everything is
working.
See, generally what happens is in production environments, if everything is working, if things are
secure, then the organizations will not really move to the newer solutions, even if the newer solution
offers much more better features because the organization might not really require it.
So this is the reason why the FAQ proves to be quite useful.
Now, one more thing before we conclude if you would look into this specific setup.
For example, when I do kubectl get pods in the namespace of nginx gateway, we had nginx based controllers
that were used.
So this is the nginx gateway fabric.
However, there are multiple set of other gateway controllers that are also available.
If you look into the documentation, you have a wide variety of controllers that are available.
All right.
So the one that we were using as part of today's demo was this one nginx gateway fabric.
But you also have various others like you have console that is available.
You have Google Kubernetes Engine, you have cilium which again is quite popular.
You have one for ECS and others.
So again, depending upon the requirement, the gateway controller that you use can also change.
So the flexibility is there.
So this is a very high level overview about the basics of the gateway API.
Again we'll be discussing about this in more detail in the upcoming set of videos.
And the aim of today's video is to understand at an overview so that we can discuss things in detail
at a later stage.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Structure of Gateway API ---

Everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the overall workflow structure and the components that
are part of the gateway API.
Now, the first point to note is that the gateway API includes the gateway class.
Then you have the gateway, then you have the protocol specific route, and then you have the actual
service associated with the application.
Now why do we mention protocol specific route?
Because gateway API supports various protocols at layer four which are TCP, UDP, as well as at layer
seven like HTTP gRPC.
Now within here, from the practical point of view, the gateway class, the gateway and route, these
are the three very important areas that we have to understand in detail in today's video.
We are going to look into it from the demo perspective.
And then in the upcoming videos when we do the practical, then it will make things much more clear.
Now, before we explore about each aspect in detail, let's quickly revise the workflow here.
So on the top you have the gateway class, you have the gateway, then you have the protocol specific
route, and then you have the underlying service that will direct to the appropriate application ports.
So first let's go ahead and discuss about the gateway class.
Now one point to note is that the gateways can be implemented by different controllers.
So there are multiple set of controllers that are available.
And gateway class specifies the controller used to implement the gateway API resources.
For example, if you see when you do cube CTL get gateway class, you have the controller.
In this case we are making use of nginx gateway controller.
Now is nginx the only controller that is available?
And the answer is no.
Now when you look into the gateway controllers, there are wide variety of gateway controllers that
are available based on the gateway controller that you want to use.
You will define it as part of the gateway class within the controllers.
So this is the first aspect.
Now generally when you configure the gateway controller like nginx, it will automatically create the
gateway class for you.
So things are simple.
So this is the first aspect of the gateway class.
Then you have the gateway.
So gateway at an overview describes an instance of traffic handling infrastructure.
So it can be any type of infrastructure.
It may represent a cloud load balancer or also an In-cluster proxy server that is configured to accept
the HTTP traffic.
Now generally when you go ahead and create a gateway, you will also have to specify the appropriate
gateway class name that is available.
In this case it is nginx.
And then you can specify the appropriate listeners like here you have the listener of HTTP and the port
of 80.
So this is the second part.
Now again we are going to look into it from demo perspective in just a moment.
But let's quickly discuss about this at a high level overview.
Then we'll discuss things in detail.
So we discussed about the gateway class.
We discussed about the gateway.
Now it is the route.
Now there are different set of routes that are available.
And overall this is very simple.
So when we discuss about HTTP root within.
Here you can specify the rules.
For example, for any request that has the path prefix of root, the back end should be Apache service,
and similarly, based on the requirement, there is a lot of customization that you can do as part of
the HTTP root over here.
Now generally when you create HTTP root, you also have to specify the appropriate name of the gateway.
In this case it is nginx gateway.
And if you look over here the gateway that we had created is nginx gateway.
So associated with this gateway the HTTP route will be linked to.
And the last important pointer is the actual gateway controller.
So this is like a implementation component.
So whatever rules that you define as part of the gateway or whatever rules that you define as part of
the HTTP route, all of them will be implemented using the gateway controller.
As we know there are multiple set of gateway controllers that are available.
So let's also go ahead and quickly look into it.
The first aspect that we were discussing is the gateway class.
Now when you do a cube CTL get gateway class.
You see, I have one gateway class that is available.
The name of the gateway class.
Is Ingenix.
And this gateway class is associated with which controller it is associated with the nginx gateway controller.
So generally in a Kubernetes environment, when you are configuring the gateway API, from a practical
point of view, when you install a specific controller like nginx controller, it will automatically
create this gateway class for you.
This is the first part.
The next part is the gateway.
So when you do cube CTL get gateway within.
Here you see you have this gateway that is available.
And this gateway has the appropriate class which is nginx.
So this gateway is associated with this specific gateway class.
This is one point.
And also when you do a kubectl describe gateway followed by nginx gateway you will get wide variety
of information over here.
Let's go a bit up.
So the first thing as we discussed it is the actual gateway class name, which is nginx.
And then you have certain listeners, for example, you have the HTTP listener, the port is 80, the
protocol is HTTP.
This is something similar to the screenshot that we saw.
So whenever you create a gateway, you'll have to specify the appropriate gateway class name and the
appropriate listener.
Now the third part as we are discussing is the actual route.
So when you say kubectl get HTTP route, you have one route.
And when you do kubectl describe route whatever route that you have.
Oops.
We made a small mistake.
It should be http route.
For example.
One thing that you see in the parent reference.
So whatever route that you create, the route must be associated with a gateway.
So here you specify that this route is associated with the gateway of nginx gateway.
Now this route has certain rules.
For example some requests will go to a service called nginx service.
Some requests will go to a service called as Apache Service.
So something like a load balancing.
But here you have a weight that is applied.
So two request will go to the nginx service.
One request will go to the Apache service.
You can also have 5,050% base load balancing that you can configure as part of the HTTP route.
Now one point that we need to note is that whenever you create a gateway or whenever you create a route
by configuration things does not work, you need some kind of a controller that can fetch the information
from the gateway from the route and implement it.
And this is where the gateway controllers comes into picture.
So they fetch the information.
Whatever you have defined.
For example, you might have defined listeners, you might have defined this HTTP routing and so on.
So depending upon what you have defined over here, the gateway controller are the actual implementation
component that will redirect the traffic accordingly.
Now as we were discussing, when you do a kubectl get gateway class as we are discussing.
As part of this setup, the controller that is used is the nginx controller.
Now when you do kubectl get pods in the namespace of nginx gateway, this is the actual controller pods.
So these are the pods that are responsible to redirect the traffic based on the configurations that
you have added as part of the routing, and it will route the traffic to the appropriate set of services
accordingly.
Now, along with that, also note that generally these set of pods, when you do kubectl get service
in the namespace of nginx gateway.
So generally when you define a controller, it will also automatically create a service of type load
balancer.
And you can also customize this.
So now what will happen is since this is a service type of load balancer, if you have the appropriate
setup in the cloud environment, a load balancer will be created for you.
Something similar to what you see and when you make a request to the load balancer.
For example, here you are getting welcome to nginx page.
So ultimately what will happen is that traffic from this load balancer will go to these specific ports.
All right.
And these are the ports that will redirect the traffic to the appropriate service based on the configuration
that you add as part of the routing here.
Now as we also discussed, there are multiple set of gateway controllers that are available.
Depending upon the requirement you can use any one of them.
Nginx gateway fabric is one of the controllers that we have been using as part of the demo, but let's
say you are using the Amazon ECS service.
Then you have the appropriate controller.
Even for Azure, you have the appropriate controller.
Now, before we conclude, one point that we have to keep a note of is that since there are multiple
set of components that you can say as part of the overall gateway API, each one can be managed by different
set of teams.
For example, you have a gateway class.
Gateway class can be managed by the infrastructure provider.
Again, it depends whether you can also have a proxy as part of your Kubernetes environment.
You can also have the controllers that are specific to AWS and so on.
Then you have the gateway.
Now gateway can be created and managed by the cluster operator.
Then you have the actual route like the HTTP route, etc. and these can be managed by the application
developer.
Application developer might not really require permissions over the gateway or the gateway class.
They can work with the HTTP route according to the requirements.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share is that HTTP route is not the only one that is available.
There are various others since multiple set of protocols that are supported.
You also have something like the gRPC route and based on the requirement you can create this as well.
So just at a very high level overview, let's try and understand the relationship between the components.
So cluster admin can create a gateway class that references a specific gateway controller.
Then you have a specific team that can create a gateway resource that references to the appropriate
gateway class.
Then the gateway controller watches for these resources and implements the actual networking setup.
So when we discuss about these resources, it can mean the appropriate gateway and the routes that you
create like the HTTP route.
And when we discuss about these routes, these routes like HTTP route, are attached to the gateway
to define the appropriate traffic rules.
Now, as we are discussing, there are multiple set of routes that are available.
Like you have the HTTP route which works at layer seven, you have the TLS route, you have the TCP
UDP route.
You also have the gRPC route based on the route that you use.
It works on different layer.
Primarily you will have the layer four and layer seven support with gateway API.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the structure and the components as part of the gateway API.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Gateway API ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
So today is going to be the practical video associated with the gateway API.
In today's video we will look into the gateway class, the gateway and the actual HTTP route.
And we'll also see on how the gateway controllers can be installed.
Now, as we know, the first thing that you have to decide is what is the type of gateway controller
that you want to configure as part of your cluster.
Now there are multiple set of gateway controllers that are available.
Again, it is not necessary that you have to use one of them.
For example, if you are based on AWS and if you are using the ECS service, then it is recommended
that you use this specific controller and so on.
Now, the controller that we are going to use as part of today's video is this specific one, which
is based on nginx called as nginx gateway fabric.
Now when you open this and when you look into the documentation associated with it.
So this is the GitHub page.
Now this will contain all of the important information related to it.
It also contains the appropriate Create installation guide for the nginx gateway fabric.
You can either install it using the helm as well as through the manifest file.
So there are multiple steps that are involved.
What I have done just for simplicity, I have combined all of the steps that we need to take as part
of today's practical in our GitHub page, and will follow this along.
Now, at this stage in a Kubernetes cluster, when you do not have the gateway controller installed,
and when you try something like kubectl get gateway class, you will get an error on it because the
server is not able to find the requested resource.
So now what do you do when you install the appropriate gateway controller?
All of these things will be configured for you.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll first copy the first command I'll run it over here.
So once this is done let's copy the second one.
And once this is done we'll run the third and the most important one.
Let's clear the screen.
This will go ahead and deploy the actual gateway controller for us.
So all the necessary ports, all of the necessary services, everything will be created as part of this.
Now when you go ahead and look into the namespaces that are available, there is one additional namespace
that got created called as nginx gateway.
This has been created through the gateway controller and in the namespace.
When you do kubectl get pods, you will see that you have the actual nginx gateway pod that is running
along with that, whenever you configure the gateway controller, you will see that in this specific
namespace there is also a service that gets created.
This is the service.
The type here is load balancer, the cluster IP is received and the external IP is pending.
Now in case if you would like for example this I am running it as part of the DigitalOcean environment.
Now if you are running it in kube ADM, although load balancer Loadbalancer service type will be available,
but the load balancer will not be created so that integration is not really present.
For example, since I am running it in a DigitalOcean based managed Kubernetes cluster.
In here in the networking you see a new load balancer is getting provisioned.
So this is one point to note.
Now again one thing.
In fact if you quickly open this let me show you.
So when you open this you can modify the manifest file also.
So let's say you don't want load balancer.
You want something like a nodeport service.
So within here within the service manifest instead of load balancer you can go ahead and modify it to
something like Nodeport as well based on the requirements.
However, we'll keep it simple so that we understand the architecture from production perspective,
because generally you will have a load balancer in production environments.
And this is the reason why we are looking into this specific architecture.
Now once you have things configured, when we had ran the command of kubectl get.
Gateway class.
Earlier it was not working, but now it is working.
Now here the gateway controller automatically created the gateway class for us.
And the name of the gateway class is Ingenix.
And this part is also automatically filled, which is the Ingenix Gateway controller.
So this part has been created for us using the gateway controller.
Now the other part like the gateway and the routes are not created.
This is something that we can configure.
So let's clear the screen.
When I do kubectl get gateway.
At this stage there are no gateway that are available.
So as part of the next step what we are going to do we are going to create a gateway.
Now the name of the gateway you can give any name.
I have just given the name of nginx gateway.
And the very important part when you create a gateway is the gateway class name.
In this case, the name of the gateway class is nginx.
This is something that you have to verify and then you can have certain configuration here, like listeners.
And maybe if you're working with TLS then this part can change.
So your listener is HTTP and the protocol is 80.
So let's go ahead and try it out I'll copy this.
So let's go ahead and quickly create a file called as gateway dot YAML.
I'll copy this and I'll go ahead and I'll do cube CTL create gateway dot YAML.
So now when you do cube CTL get gateway you have a nginx gateway that is created.
Now since this gateway is using this gateway class of nginx, the address is also populated.
This is the address of the load balancer which is 51.93.
So if you will see.
In fact let's refresh this because this is not appearing clearly.
So you have 51.93.
So this IP address has automatically been populated here.
Now associated with this specific gateway you need to add the appropriate routes.
We are going to keep it simple based on the HTTP protocol.
So as part of the next step before we define the route because.
Ultimately what route will do it will depending upon the rules, it will forward it to the appropriate
service.
So we need to have service available.
So this is the reason why what we are going to do.
We are going to create a new deployment based on Apache which uses the Apache latest image.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
And then we are going to expose this deployment to a service called as Apache Service.
So let's copy this as well.
Great.
So now when you do kubectl get service you should have the Apache service.
And when you do kubectl describe service the name of the service which is Apache service.
Make sure that you have this endpoint.
Once you have the deployment and the service configured.
Now you can go ahead and define the HTTP route.
Now our HTTP route here is very simple.
Now whenever you create a route.
So whenever this route is created one part that you will have to configure is the gateway name to which
the route will be attached to.
So this is the reason why in the parent reference here, the name that we have specified is the Apache
Gateway, because ultimately the name of the gateway here is nginx gateway.
But here this is Apache Gateway.
So this specific part will not work.
I will modify this git page by the time you watch the video.
But this is something that I hope you understand here.
Once you have defined the appropriate gateway the next part is the rules.
So here we have a very simple rule where all of the requests, all of the requests that matches this,
which is slash, which will mean all of the requests.
Then you have the back end reference.
In here you have the Apache service.
So basically this is the Apache service.
The port is 80.
So all of the requests will be forwarded to one back end of Apache service.
In case if you would like, you can also do something like load balancing between multiple services
or maybe traffic splitting or weight based Base routing as well.
So a lot of possibilities are available.
So this is something that we have to keep a note of.
Let's copy this and I'll create one more file of HTTP route dot YAML.
I'll add it.
And again you have to modify this so that it gets associated properly to the right gateway.
And I'll save this.
Once I've done that you can go ahead and create the HTTP route as well.
Once this is created you can verify you can say kubectl get HTTP route.
And then you can also do a describe on the route that you have created.
From here you can just verify in the parent reference.
The kind is gateway.
So it is associated with the gateway and the name is nginx gateway.
And these are the rules associated with it.
So at this stage we have completed the main setup.
It is time for testing.
So as part of our testing what we are going to do we are going to send the request.
Now again you can directly in case if you're running it in DigitalOcean based managed Kubernetes cluster,
you can send a request directly to the IP address of the load balancer.
Let's do that.
So here you see it shows it works.
Now in case if you are not using this, if you are using something like kube ADM based cluster, then
what you can do, you can quickly create a pod called as curl pod.
Before you do that you can just run this command.
Let's clear the screen.
I'll run this command.
In fact, this is showing you a lot of details.
We are primarily interested in only this, so we are interested in this cluster IP only.
Now you can quickly create a pod.
So this is a simple curl pod.
We'll quickly connect to this.
And then what you can do instead of sending request directly to the load balancer the service associated
with the nginx gateway, you can send a request to the cluster IP of that specific service from within
the pod.
Alright, since this is a internal IP for testing, you can also try it out.
So here when you do a curl, you should get eight works as a message.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood about the important components associated
with the gateway API and also on how the workflow works.
Now one point to note again, in case if you are using the DigitalOcean environment, you do not really
want a load balancer to be working all the time because load balancer generally are not free, they
are expensive.
So once you have completed the practical maybe next video, just see if we have any gateway API specific
video.
In case if there is, then you can just look into maintaining the load balancer because we might need
it in case if the next video is not related to the gateway API, you can just delete all of the resources
that you have created.
So instead of apply that you see over here, all you have to do is you have to replace it with delete
and all of them will be deleted.
And then you can delete the deployment as well that were created as part of today's video.
So that's a quick overview.
And with this we will conclude today's practicals.

--- Important Point to Note - TLS Gateway API ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- TLS Configuration - Gateway API ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about TLS specific configurations as part of the gateway
API.
Now generally, whenever you want to work with TLS at a gateway API level, there are two connections
that you should know of.
One is the downstream.
So downstream is basically the connection between the client and the gateway.
So you have a client which can be the internet user.
So this connection between the client and the gateway because here also network is involved.
So when you discuss about TLS you have to identify what exactly do you want to achieve.
One is either the downstream so you can achieve encryption between client and gateway.
And then you have upstream.
So upstream is basically the connection between the gateway as well as the back end service.
Now whenever you work with TLS at a gateway API level, there are two important modes that you should
be aware of.
One is the TLS pass through mode.
Second is the TLS terminate mode.
The terminate mode is very simple where the encryption happens between the client and the gateway API.
So this downstream that we were discussing this can be achieved using the TLS terminate mode.
So what happens here is that since TLS is getting terminated at a gateway API level, the traffic from
client and gateway API will remain to be encrypted through the network.
And since TLS is getting terminated here, the traffic from the gateway API towards the appropriate
port will remain to be in the plain text format.
So here you have the HTTP, and in the downstream you have the Https.
The second is the TLS passthrough mode.
What happens here is that the connection does not get terminated at a gateway API level.
So this is referred to as the pass through.
This connection gets terminated directly at a port level over here.
So this is much more secure.
Now one more point to note is that in the TLS terminate mode, since the termination is happening at
a gateway API level, you will require the certificates.
And these certificates are managed at a gateway level.
However, in the passthrough mode, since the TLS termination is happening directly in the port, the
certificate and the appropriate private key must be as part of the pod over here.
Now, when you compare both of these approaches, as we are discussing in the TLS passthrough mode,
the decryption happens at a pod level.
And in the TLS termination mode, the decryption happens at a gateway level itself.
So whenever you enable TLS you have to decide which mode you want.
You either want a passthrough or you want the termination related mode.
Let's also discuss some of the pointers related to it as we are discussing.
The first point is that TLS decryption point in the passthrough, it gets decrypted at the back end
pod level indeterminate.
It gets decrypted at a gateway level.
Certificate management.
Also, since the TLS in the terminate mode is getting terminated at a pod level, the appropriate certificates
and the private key must be at a pod level.
In the terminate mode, it must be at a gateway level.
Now, few very important pointers here.
The content inspection.
When you use the passthrough mode, it is not really possible.
Also, when we discuss about some of the important features of gateway API, like the request modification,
if you want to modify the HTTP headers, if you want to work around with routing capability in more
detail, all of these will be blocked or limited when you use the TLS passthrough mode.
For example, as we were discussing that in the passthrough mode, since the request is still encrypted,
the gateway API will not be able to modify the HTTP headers.
It will not be able to perform the appropriate inspection of the request.
So this is one of the downside.
If the gateway API does not do the inspection, then the overall features will be quite limited when
compared to the terminate mode.
In the terminate mode, since the TLS is getting terminated at a gateway API level, the gateway API
can inspect modify the request, and it can also modify the HTTP headers based on the requirements.
So let's do one thing.
Let's have a quick demo of the TLS terminate mode, so that we understand on how exactly the workflow
would look like.
Now for today's video, if I'll quickly do a cube CTL get gateway, I have the gateway that is configured.
This is based on TLS.
So let me quickly show you when I quickly do a cube CTL describe gateway.
Let's look into the gateway.
Let's go a bit up.
So this is the important part that I wanted to show here.
If you see the mode here is terminate.
This is something that we just saw.
Now since this is dealing with the TLS as part of the listeners, the protocol would be Https.
This is very important.
And the port will be 443.
Now one more point that we were discussing that in the terminate mode, since the gateway API will be
responsible for decrypting the TLS from the client to the gateway API endpoint, the gateway API will
also require the certificate and the private key.
Otherwise it will not be able to decrypt.
So this certificate and private key is generally referenced or provided to the gateway API by adding
the appropriate Kubernetes secret based on type of TLS.
So let's also quickly revise this.
So when you explore the Kubernetes secrets here, one of the aspects here is the TLS secret.
Whenever you are dealing with TLS secret, you have to add the appropriate certificate and the appropriate
key.
And these certificate and these key will be used by the gateway to decrypt the connection from the client
to the gateway endpoint.
So this is the reason why this part proves to be very important.
Now you directly do not add the certificate and the key as part of the gateway.
Instead, you add that certificate and key in a secret, and you reference that secret as part of the
TLS in the gateway spec.
So here we are stating that example.
TLS is the name of the secret that contains the appropriate certificate and the appropriate key that
the gateway controller can use to ensure that the connection is encrypted and it also gets terminated
here.
Let me also quickly show you when I do a cube CTL get secret.
I have a secret.
If you see the type of secret is TLS, the name is example TLS and when you do cube CTL get secret example
TLS.
With the output of YAML you will see this secret has the TLS certificate.
So this is the TLS certificate and this is the TLS key.
Again this is encoded.
That's why it is looking too long.
Now let's also have a quick demo so that we understand the overall workflow.
Now as we were discussing let's quickly do a cube CTL get gateway.
Since this is TLS, this is basically the IP address of the load balancer.
Now what I have done, I have added the specific IP address to a hostname called as example.com.
Now, when you make a curl request to the https endpoint of example.com.
At this stage we are getting untrusted certificate.
This is fine because this is a self-signed certificate.
I'll just add a hyphen k and you are getting.
Welcome to nginx.
Let's also explore now associated with this certificate.
If I quickly do a kubectl get http route I have one route called as TLS route.
And when you do a kubectl describe http route called as TLS route, it is a very simple if you see it
has been referencing to the my TLS gateway and any request it is forwarding to nginx hyphen service.
And this is the reason why we are getting welcome to nginx page over here.
Now just to verify let's quickly do a kubectl get pods.
Now currently I have this nginx pod that is running and this is where the traffic goes to.
So if I quickly do cube CTL logs, let's specify the name of the pod.
I'll use hyphen f.
So from here we can identify.
Let's make a request again.
And this time you see the request has hit this specific pod over here.
So from here we can identify that request indeed is going to the pod through this specific domain.
Now let me in fact show you when I quickly do a ping on example.com I just wanted to share you this
detail.
The IP address is 84 dot 99.
And if you quickly do cube CTL get gateway within.
Here also you see 84.99.
So this is the basic host entry that I have done in my local system just for ease of use.
But from here we can identify that things are working at a Https level.
Now let me also quickly show you a few more things so that this concept is clear.
So when we make a request to the https endpoint of example.com, at this stage it is showing potential
risk.
This is fine because it is a self-signed certificate.
I'll go ahead and I'll accept it as soon as I have done that.
As expected we are seeing welcome to nginx page.
Now one more point.
Let's look into the certificate over here.
If you see in if you view the certificate here the common name of the certificate.
Basically this is the certificate that is being retrieved from the secret.
So the common name of the certificate is example.com and the organization is example hyphen org.
Now let's clear the screen.
Let's quickly do cube CTL get secret.
What was the name of secret example TLS.
So if I say cube CTL describe secret example TLS.
So this has the TLS key and the TLS certificate.
Let's do one thing I'll say cube CTL get secret example TLS with the output of YAML.
I just wanted to show you so that we have the full clarity.
So I'll copy this.
This is the base 64 encoded.
So let's just decode this specific certificate.
So this is the certificate here.
Let's copy this and we'll just add the certificate here.
We'll decode it.
And from here we can see that the certificate was issued to example.com.
The organization is example hyphen org.
And you can also verify the Sha 256 fingerprint.
So 1925 FB and Sha one fingerprint E1EBDF and ends with nine a.
And if you verify the fingerprint, the fingerprint also matches.
So from here we can clearly identify that in the terminate mode, the certificate that is being presented
when a client opens the website is the same certificate that was added as part of the Kubernetes secret,
and the same is being used as part of the negotiation between the client and the gateway API.
Now, before we conclude a few more pointers that we have to keep a note of.
First one is that in case if your TLS mode is going to be terminated, then the listener protocol can
be Https and the route type that is supported would be http route.
Let me in fact show you.
So when you do kubectl get gateway over here, this is the gateway.
When you do kubectl describe gateway my TLS gateway.
Let's go a bit up.
So within here the mode that we have used is terminate and the protocol is Https.
And as we are discussing if you do kubectl get HTTP route, we also have a route based on HTTP that
is available.
So this is supported specifically for the terminate mode at the Https level.
Now in case if you want say a pass through.
So in such cases you can have the TLS protocol as the listener.
The TLS mode can be passed through.
And the route type that is supported would be the TLS route.
Also, you can have certain flexibility where you can have a listener protocol of TLS, the TLS mode
can be terminate, and the route type that is supported even for this can be TCP route.
So depending upon the mode and the exact requirement, the route type might change.
So this is something that you have to keep a note of.
Again all of these things are part of the documentation so you don't really have to worry.
Along with that, I also wanted to give you a quick walkthrough on how the gateway configuration would
look like, specifically for the TLS terminate mode.
Again, it is not too different.
The major difference here would be in the listeners.
So in the TLS terminate mode, you will have the protocol of Https the port of 443.
And since the certificates will be required since TLS is terminating at a gateway API level, the certificate
needs to be referenced using the secret.
So here the kind is secret, and this is the name of the secret where the certificate and the keys are
stored.
So this is a very high level overview about the TLS specific configurations that are available at a
gateway API level.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - TLS Terminate Mode for Gateway API ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing about various possible TLS related configurations at the
gateway API level.
Today is going to be the practical video where we are going to discuss about the TLS terminate mode
practically.
Now, as we are discussing that for the terminate mode, one of the important criteria here is that
there should be a Kubernetes secret that should have the appropriate TLS certificate and the TLS key,
since you do not directly add it as part of the gateway API, you reference it to the appropriate Kubernetes
secret.
So as part of today's practical what we are going to do, first we are going to create a Kubernetes
secret.
The common name here is example dot internal.
Then we are going to create the secret.
The name of secret is example TLS.
And we are going to reference the certificate that was created through this command, and the key that
was created through the first command.
And this Kubernetes secret will be created in the default namespace.
So first let's go ahead and do that post which will be discussing about few other things.
Now for today's practical, I am connected to the Linux server primarily because in my windows system
I do not have the OpenSSL that is installed.
So Linux generally ubuntu, it comes with the OpenSSL.
So we'll use that just for simplicity.
In case if you have OpenSSL available in your system you can use that.
So first we are going to go ahead and create the certificate and the key.
Once you have done that if you do LS you see this is the certificate and this is the key.
Then you are going to create a secret by referencing to both of these.
So I'll clear the screen.
I'll run this command.
Once this is done you can simply do cube CTL get secret to verify whether the secret is created, and
just also verify the type.
The type should be TLS.
Once this is done, we are going to create a fresh deployment based on nginx image.
There is a small issue.
Ideally it should be nginx will be updating it.
After this video I'll clear the screen.
What I'll do I'll just replace the httpd which is the Apache, with the nginx image.
And then we are going to create a service that will have the pod as part of the deployment as the endpoints.
All right.
So now when you do a kubectl get service you should see that we have the nginx service that is available.
And this is the service that we are going to target as part of the appropriate HTTP route.
Once these are created now will come with the important area which is to create the gateway configuration
with TLS termination in mind.
Now within here, as we are discussing, there are two important areas.
One is the listeners.
Now since we are working with the terminate mode, we will use the protocol as Https.
The port will be 443.
So this part is simple to understand.
And second part here is the mode which is terminate.
And since it is terminate we will also have to specify the certificate reference.
So within here you have a certificate reference.
Kind is secret and the name is example hyphen TLS which is this specific name.
Now again you don't really have to remember all of this When you look into the gateway API documentation
related to the TLS configuration, let's go a bit down.
There is already a basic snippet that is available.
So within here the protocol is Https port is 443 certificate reference secret.
The name of the secret.
You also have multiple examples where you have multiple domains, each domain with its own individual
certificate.
So based on the requirement multiple set of examples are provided.
We are going to use a very simple one.
Let's go ahead and create a file called as my TLS gateway dot YAML.
I will copy this and I'll save this.
Now in case if you have a gateway and the HTTP route that might have been created in the earlier practical,
it is recommended to remove that.
So in my case there is no gateway and also there is no HTTP route in case if you have, you can just
quickly delete it.
Once you have done that, you can just do a kubectl create on the gateway.
This is the first part.
The second part is the HTTP route.
Now in the HTTP route.
This is simple.
In fact, this is very similar to the normal configuration.
You don't really have to add any TLS specific configuration here.
So the only thing required is the parent reference which is the name my TLS gateway.
So this part should match over here.
And then you have the simple rule in the rule in the back end reference we are referencing to the nginx
service on port 80.
So very simple HTTP route.
Let's also try it out.
So I'll say nano on http route dot YAML.
I'll add this and I'll quickly create this.
All right.
So once you have done that let's also quickly verify I'll say kubectl describe gateway my TLS gateway
just to verify if everything is set up correctly.
Now within here just verify this specific part mode is terminate.
The secret is example TLS protocol is https port is 443.
These are the important area.
And again definitely the gateway class name is very important.
Once this is done, your setup is completed and now it is time to test.
So for the testing you can use multiple set of approaches.
You have the address that is also available.
So in case if you have a load balancer you can try sending the request to the load balancer.
Let's in fact do that.
So when I make a curl request to the https, let's specify the address.
When I send this request we get an error.
What is the error?
TLS version one unrecognized name.
Now if you remember the certificate that we had created, this certificate had a common name of example
dot internal.
So this is the reason why now, since we are not sending the request with that specific host name,
we are directly sending the request to the IP address.
This is the issue.
So in order to overcome this you can go ahead and in the E.t.c hosts file over here.
Let's copy this.
And within Here you can specify example internal and you can save this.
Now in case if you are using windows what you can do just for simplicity, you can just create a simple
curl port.
And inside the curl port you can create a host file.
Now once this is completed.
Now when I make a curl request to https endpoint on example dot internal.
You see this is working perfectly well.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share is that within here note that the listener is only at Https,
so it will only allow Https based connections.
So in case, for example, you send the same request on the HTTP, let's try it out.
You see, immediately we get connection reset by peer.
This is one point to note since you have listener of 443 on https, it will only listen on Https.
All right, so I hope with this you understood practically about the TLS terminate mode.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- Mapping of Ingress API to Gateway API ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about mapping of ingress API features to the gateway API features.
Now, the knowledge that we are going to gain in today's video will help in many other scenarios specifically
related to migration.
So with this, let's get started.
Now, the first area that we need to keep a note of is related to the entry points.
Now, from the perspective of entry points, when we discuss about ingress, every ingress resource
has two implicit entry points.
One will be for HTTP and second will be for the Https based traffic.
And it is the ingress controller that will provide these entry points.
Now whenever you create an ingress now in this ingress you do not specify that I need ingress only for
HTTP, or I need it only for Https.
Even if you have not really specified anything as part of the ingress, by default the HTTP and https
will be enabled at the ingress controller level.
Now when we compare this with the gateway API, things are slightly different in gateway API.
The entry point must explicitly be defined as part of the gateway resource.
Now, if you will see as part of this gateway resource, you have a listener.
The protocol is HTTP and the port is 80.
So this part is important and you have to define it.
Now let's say that you have Https that is defined over here.
And then you send the traffic to the gateway API over HTTP protocol so that traffic will not be allowed.
This is the reason why in gateway API inside the gateway resource, you have to be very specific on
what needs to be allowed.
All right.
So the second pointer is something similar to what we were discussing, where if you want the HTTP traffic
on port 80 you have to define it in the list.
Now before we proceed further and look into the other pointers, let's quickly look into it.
Now in one of the servers, I have a Kubernetes ingress controller that is configured and ingress is
also available.
For example, when I do kubectl get ingress you see I have a ingress that is available.
And when I do kubectl describe ingress.
The name is main ingress over here.
You see this is a very simple ingress.
And you have two hostname.
Example internal goes to example service.
Internal goes to the Cape lab service.
Now as part of this ingress we have not really specified that I only want HTTP traffic or I only want
the Https traffic.
By default, both the HTTP and Https will be allowed.
So let's also go ahead and quickly look into it now when you will quickly look into the namespaces.
We are more interested in the ingress controller.
So let's say kubectl get pods in the namespace of ingress nginx where our ingress controller pods will
be running.
So we have the ingress controller pod that is running here.
And when I do a kubectl get service in the same namespace of ingress nginx, we have one service based
on the nginx ingress controller.
And this is the cluster IP.
Now let's do one thing just for simplicity.
From a different tab, I'm going to connect to one of the curl ports that I have.
Now again note that this is the demo video.
The aim is to understand the concept.
Now from the curl pod.
Since this specific ingress had two hostnames example internal and internal that were allowed.
In fact.
Let's also explore this again.
So if you do a describe ingress you had a host of example internal and CP labs internal.
So if I make a curl request to the HTTP on example dot internal, you see we are getting the response
back.
In a similar way.
If we send a curl request on Https this time also we are getting a response.
So let's use hyphen k because it is a self-signed certificate.
So we have to trust it.
So even on the Https endpoint we are getting the response back.
Now this is a typical approach associated with ingress.
Now from the gateway API perspective.
Things are a little different.
So from the third tab I am connected to other Kubernetes cluster where I have gateway API configured.
Now when you do a kubectl get gateway I have one TLS gateway that is available.
And when I do a kubectl describe gateway, my TLS gateway within here if we go a bit down.
So generally when we define a gateway we have to explicitly in the listeners we have to specify whether
we are looking for HTTP or Https or TCP or UDP or gRPC etc..
So multiple set of protocols are allowed.
Explicit definition is required here.
So within here we have set https on port 443.
Now let's do one thing for the Kubernetes cluster where I have gateway API configured.
Again you will have the gateway controller.
So when I do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of nginx gateway.
So this is where we have the gateway controller running.
And if I do a kubectl get service in the namespace of nginx gateway.
Again similar to the ingress controller based service.
Here also we have a gateway controller based service.
This is the cluster IP associated with it.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's quickly connect to the curl pod, similar to how we had done it in the previous cluster.
And we are going to send a curl request to the HTTP endpoint of example dot internal.
Let's press enter.
It says cannot resolve example internal.
This is fine just for simplicity what we are going to do.
I will just copy this.
I'll quickly add it in the host entry.
Oops.
Let's do it here on the top I'll say example dot internal.
I'll just quickly save this.
All right.
Now when we send a request to the example internal, this time we are getting a message failed to connect
to.
Example internal port 80 could not connect to the server.
Now when we send the same request, let's say with hyphen k on the https endpoint.
This time you see it is working.
So for HTTP endpoint it is not working.
But for https endpoint on the same domain it is working.
This is slightly different to the ingress controller that we are discussing, where both the HTTP and
Https endpoint will be enabled.
So this is the reason why when you are migrating from ingress API to the gateway API, you have to make
sure that in case if your applications or clients are configured to connect to both the HTTP and Https
endpoint, then in your gateway you will have to add both the HTTP and Https listeners.
The second pointer is related to the TLS termination.
Now, when it comes to the ingress, the approach is quite similar.
Where in the ingress inside the TLS you specify the secret name.
So this is the secret where your TLS certificates and the TLS keys will be stored.
Now in the gateway API you will have to add it as part of the gateway.
So under the gateway listeners you have the TLS.
And in the TLS you will have to decide the mode.
So you have multiple modes like terminate pass through.
So this is more advanced when compared with ingress.
And then within here you have to specify the name of the Kubernetes secret of type TLS.
So small changes in the name.
So here we specify secret name.
Here we specify certificate refs.
However in both the cases the Kubernetes secret of type TLS will be used.
So this is much more easier.
The third area is related to the routing rules.
Now when it comes to the ingress, we directly add the rules in the ingress resource, so you can add
multiple set of rules based on the requirements.
However, in gateway API we do not directly add the rules in the gateway resource.
We add it as part of various objects like the HTTP route or the gRPC route, etc..
So this is the example of HTTP route within.
Here you will have to specify the parent reference.
And then here you can specify whatever rules you want.
Now again the approach might slightly be different when it comes to naming convention.
For example here the path is route.
Again.
Here you have route and here you have backend service followed by the name of service.
Here you have backend reference followed by the name of service.
So small changes.
But this kind of mapping is something that you will have to keep a note of specifically during the area
of migrations.
Now one more point.
Again, you don't really have to remember this.
All of the details.
You will get it as part of the gateway API documentation.
Specifically, there is one document of migrating from ingress.
So here you will have a detailed information related to the things that you have to keep a note of.
So if you will see we are discussing about this specific part.
We discussed about entry point.
We discussed about TLS termination.
We also discussed about the routing rules at a very high level overview.
Now again this can go in more detail.
It also gives you information related to how you can deal with rule merging or conflict resolution,
etc..
And in case if you have default back end.
So all of this information is present as part of the documentation.
So in case when there is a requirement you can go ahead and study this in detail.
However the aim of today's video is to understand this at a very high level.
Overview.
Now before we conclude, one more important pointer to note is that if there is a requirement where
you want to migrate from ingress to gateway API, in such cases there are multiple ways.
First, one is where you can go ahead and do a manual migration.
So in today's video we were discussing about mapping.
So you can either do a manual migration by looking into how ingress API related details are mapped to
the gateway API.
This is one approach, or you can also use some form of an automation tool like Ingress to Gateway.
This is also available.
Let's also quickly look into it.
Now if you look into the official GitHub page related to Ingress to Gateway, let's go a bit down what
it states that ingress to gateway helps translate ingress and provide a specific crds to the gateway
API resources, and also it does not support all of the providers.
There are only certain providers that are supported like cilium you have ingress, nginx, GCE Kong
and so on.
So this is also one point that you have to keep a note of.
Again, from the exam perspective, the ingress to gateway is something that you will not be tested
with, but from the production point of view, just keep a note that this kind of flexibility is available.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Custom Resource Definition (CRDs) ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss on how we can create custom resources in Kubernetes.
So as of now we have been creating multiple different types of resources.
In Kubernetes.
It can be pods, deployments, services, etc..
Now whenever you have a default Kubernetes cluster, you will have multiple set of API objects that
are available of a certain kind.
And when you want to create resource, it is quite simple.
However, many a times what happens is in a larger environments you require certain level of customization.
So apart from these set of API resources that are available, you might want some custom set of resources
as well.
So in such cases, the learning as part of today's video is going to be very useful.
So whenever you want to create custom resources in Kubernetes, the Crds, also referred to as the custom
resource definition, proves to be very useful at an overview.
The CRD allows you to extend the Kubernetes API by defining your own custom resource types.
So as of now, whenever we create manifest file, we know that in kind we add pod deployment, config
maps, etc..
So let's say you want to create custom resource.
You want something like database.
Now database is something that does not come by default in Kubernetes.
So this is more of a custom resource.
Now ideally what would happen is if the entire workflow is created, user using the kubectl command
can go ahead and make a query to create the appropriate database resource object.
And then using the appropriate set of controllers the database resource can be created.
So this part of custom resource is what we are discussing in today's video.
And here the CRD proves to be very useful.
Now generally in Kubernetes when you do kubectl get crds, at this stage you have no resources found.
Now again this is a fresh cluster that I have created.
This is not based on DigitalOcean.
So from a second tab I am connected to a managed DigitalOcean cluster.
And within here when I do kubectl get CRD, you see there are a wide range of crds available.
You have one related to cilium.
You have some related to the gateway API and so on.
So depending upon the need, when you install some third party code, it can be cilium for networking.
It can be gateway API.
They will go ahead and will create custom resource definition.
And then the appropriate objects will be created.
So let's take an example.
So you have this specific CRD that is available here.
Let's explore this.
When you do kubectl or let's do one thing let's just clear the screen.
When you do kubectl describe CRD I'll be adding this.
It gives you a lot of information.
One of the important information here is the kind.
Now we already know what kind means because generally whenever we create manifest kind is one of the
field that we add.
And in fact this is something that we can also see.
So when we do kubectl API resources let's just zoom out here you will see that you have kind.
So for what object you want to create.
So for pods you have a kind of pod and so on.
Similarly for seed also whenever you create a CRD you have to specify the kind.
So in this case the kind is HTTP route.
So from this CRD you can go ahead and create multiple set of objects in Kubernetes.
Now since this is a kind when you try to do kubectl get HTTP route, you see we are getting some information
here.
However, in another cluster where I don't have the CRD configured.
If I run the same command immediately, you see we get an error stating that the server doesn't have
the resource type HTTP route.
So in the future, let's say that you want to go ahead and have this resource type of HTTP route.
Then you'll have to configure the CRD in a similar way.
Let's say you want to get information like kubectl get database.
Again you're getting the same error that resource type database not found.
So if you want this specific resource type you can go ahead and configure the Crds.
So let's also go ahead and look into how we can do that.
So the step number one would be to create the custom resource definition.
So this is very important.
So in order to create this CRD you need to create a file that defines your object kinds.
In fact let's also quickly explore this.
So whenever you do a describe on this specific CRD you have a lot of information like associated with
the CRD.
What is going to be the kind.
And also there are certain conditions based on that.
So you have a pattern, you have a minimum length, maximum length etc..
So all of these things are there.
So similar to that, whenever you create your own custom resource definition you will have to specify
all of these things.
Like for example here you will see this is the name of the CRD.
This is the group.
The kind here is database.
So whenever someone runs the kubectl command they can run like kubectl get database and you will get
the appropriate output.
Then you can specify the version.
In this case you have the version one and various other details.
Now after you have applied the CRD into the cluster then you can go ahead and create the custom resource.
We are going to try this out practically in just a moment.
So at this stage just remember the step number one is to create the custom resource definition.
And after the custom resource definition object has been created.
Now you can go ahead and create custom resources.
So if you look into this specific resource it is a very simple one based on the kind of database the
API version is v1.
So if you will see in here the group was CP labs dot internal.
And the version in this case was V1 and the kind here was database.
So whenever you create a resource it will go ahead and target that specific CRD.
And then in the resource spec you can specify something like name and replicas.
Now again it depends on what you can add under the spec.
It depends upon the cards and what exactly it allows, and only based on that the spec can be populated
accordingly.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
Then it will give us more clarity.
Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and create the custom resource definition.
And then we are going to create the custom resource as well.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So let's create a file called as crd dot YAML.
So I'll quickly open this I'll copy this.
Let's add it over here.
Now a few things before we do an apply.
First one here is the name which is database dot labs dot internal.
This is the group we are going to discuss what group means in just a moment.
Kind is something that we understand now.
This specific part is also very important.
The schema.
Now generally if you would notice that whenever we create custom object in the spec over here we add
something like name replicas etc..
So this part that you add over here will be allowed, Out.
Considering that the CRD, which is at risk applies to internal V1, allows these fields and the appropriate
values.
So here you have name and replicas.
And if you will see over here you have name and you have replicas.
And also for name there are certain condition like type string.
And in replica there is certain condition like type is integer.
So whenever you create a custom resource with a kind of database it should have these specific fields
present.
All right.
So again this is a very high level overview.
Let's go ahead and save this once.
Then you can go ahead and create your first CRD.
Once this is done when you do a cube CTL get CRD.
You see you have one CRD available called as database dot cp labs dot internal.
Now once you have CRD available when you run a command like kubectl API resources.
So let's zoom out.
So there are multiple resources that are available.
This is something that we already know one of them would be our card that we had created.
So let's quickly find that out.
This one you see you have database and this specific part, the API version here is KP labs dot internal
v1.
And the kind here is the database.
All right.
The kind here is the database.
So whenever you create custom objects you will have to specify this in the API version.
And this part in the kind.
So let's clear the screen.
Once you have the custom resource definition configured the next part is to create the custom resource.
So our custom resource is going to be very simple.
If you see the API version is KP labs internal v1.
I hope you understood what exactly this means.
The kind here is database.
I hope you also understand what this means.
And in the spec we have name and replicas.
This is also something that we have discussed.
So let's try it out.
So I'll say db dot YAML and I'll add the details here and we'll go ahead and we'll create it.
So this is completed.
So now when you do cube CTL get database.
You see we have one called as my database that is available.
And when you do cube CTL describe database my database you will get all of the information here.
Now one very important point that we have to keep a note of is that just by creating custom object is
not always enough.
Because here you have specified that we need a database called as.
My database name is Testdb replicas S3.
So this is fine, but this is more of a information perspective.
A resource is not created, so a database is not actually created.
So in order to do that the custom controllers plays an important role.
So controller tracks at least one Kubernetes resource type.
And these objects have a spec field that represents the desired state.
Now, ideally what would happen is if there would have been the controller controller would had read
this information and based on this information it would had created the database accordingly.
However, we know that in order to do that, you will have to design your own controller.
So not only the controller should be able to read this specific details, but based on this specific
detail.
The controller should also know on how the database should be created, where the database should be
created, etc..
So all of this is a custom logic that you will have to create once your custom objects and the crds
are created.
So this is also one point that we have to keep a note of.
Now, before we conclude, one more thing that I wanted to show you is specifically related to.
In fact, let's go a bit up specifically related to this part under the spec.
Now here, if you see you have explicitly specified, for example, in the replicas, you have explicitly
specified that the type associated with this field is going to be integer.
So in such case let's say that you try to modify the db dot YAML.
Let's just call it as say my database two.
Now whatever value and whatever field that you add under the spec, it should conform to the standards
that you have added as part of the CRD.
Now in the replicas, as we know we have explicitly specified the type should be integer.
Now instead of integer, let's say you try to add a string, let's say three.
All right I'll save this.
Now when you try to create the object from here, immediately you see we got an error.
What.
It states that in the spec dot replicas.
Invalid value string spec dot replica in body must be of type integer and it got a string.
So this error by itself is very valuable.
And based on that you can go ahead and modify this accordingly.
Now along with that again you don't really have to remember all of this.
Everything is part of the documentation.
I have also added the link to the documentation.
So if you look into the documentation here you have a create custom resource definition.
Again very similar.
You have the name, you have the group, you have the version etc. and then under the schema under the
properties dot spec what it is expecting, it is expecting cron spec field.
The type is string, image field or type string replicas.
The type is integer and again you have various others.
For example, here you also have a short name called as CT.
So instead of specifying the cron tab, you can also run the CT.
And that will also work.
And along with that they also have the way to create custom object.
Again this custom object has cron spec and image, and this part can only be added if you have the appropriate
spec in the Crds.
So again this documentation, if you see it is very lengthy and generally from what I have seen in enterprises,
the Crds kids are definitely used.
Specifically, let's say you are installing, say, psyllium or you are installing, say, gateway API.
All of them will have their own set of custom resource definitions that will be used.
But creating Crds.
Creating custom controllers is something that you might not be doing most of the times.
There are some requirements in larger enterprises, but in most of the cases you will not be dealing
with creating your own set of crds, own set of controllers, etc. but you need to know the basics of
CRD so that for a specific project like gateway API, you should know that it also installs and configure
certain set of Crds.
So tomorrow if you are getting an error related to CRD, you should know what exactly it means and maybe
what you can troubleshoot with it.
All right.
So that is the high level aim.
Again after you have completed the practical you can go ahead and delete the CRD.
In fact let's do that I'll say kubectl delete c dot YAML.
And that's about it.
Great.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Helm - Skipping CRDs ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss on how you can skip the cards whenever you are installing
the helm chart.
Now, the first point to note is that with the helm three, there is now a special directory called
as Crds that you can create in your chart that holds the crds for you.
And in case many a times in organizations, in Kubernetes clusters, the crds already exist.
So in such cases, if you install the helm chart, these crds will be skipped with a warning.
However, if you want to explicitly skip the CRD installation, then you can pass the Skip Crds flag.
Now, one more point to note is that it is not necessary that if you use the skip Crds, the Crds will
not be configured.
It depends upon case to case basis and how the chart has been created.
So depending upon the chart, there can be different ways that might be possible to skip the crds.
For example, if you look into this chart, you have a custom resource definition.
And there is a specific condition over here which states that if values dot Crds dot install.
So if this is set to false, then.
Crds will not be installed.
However, if the default value of this is true, then Crds will be installed over here even if you go
ahead and use the skip Crds.
So this is one point to keep a note of.
Generally, what you can do if you want to be 100% sure, you can go ahead and create a helm template.
Set the appropriate approach to skip the crds and verify if the final YAML file has the CRD or not.
And this is one of the easy ways to verify.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
This will give us better clarity.
Now for today's practical we are going to take one example of Argo CD.
So within here let's search for all of the results.
So this is related to OCI.
We are more interested in the normal one.
So this is Argo project Argo.
Let's go ahead and open this.
Now within here you will get all of the information here.
One of the ways in which you can verify whether this specific helm chart is installing the Crds.
You can look into the source code.
For example, if you look into the helm over here in the GitHub.
Let's go to templates.
We'll go to say Crds.
And you see you have crds that are available.
And if you open this over here you have the Crds.
And for the installation of Crds you have a specific condition which is if values dot Crds dot install.
So if crds dot install let's say is set to true, the crds will get installed.
If it is set to false, the Crds will not get installed.
So at this stage we are confirmed that Crds are configured as part of the helm template.
Now one more thing is you can go ahead and look into the template.
Also lets search for custom resource definition.
So this is also one of the easy ways in case if the repository link is not available to view the source
code.
Now within here also for the custom resource definition you see there is a condition which says if values
dot crd, dot install is set then it will install.
Otherwise it is not.
And it is showing that the default is true since the default is true when you go ahead and install this,
the Crds will also be available.
Now when you run the helm, install hyphen.
Hyphen.
Help command.
Let's go a bit up.
There is a specific flag as we're discussing the skip crds.
Now what it states if set, no Crds will be installed.
By default.
Crds are installed if not already present.
So sometimes for new users, this can be a little misleading because even if you add the skip crds,
it will still install the Crds.
It all depends upon how the helm chart has been created.
Let's go ahead and explore this.
Now what we are going to do as part of today's practical.
First we are going to add the helm chart of Argo.
So let's go ahead and do this.
Then what we are going to do we are going to run the helm install command.
So this is very similar to installing the appropriate chart.
We are going to explicitly run the skip Crds.
So we'll assume that this will work and the Crds will not be installed.
And then we are going to do a dry run so that the application is not configured.
I'll copy this.
Let's clear the screen if I run it over here.
You see you have a big manifest file over here.
Now, if you try to go ahead and look into it from the CLI perspective, it will become quite large.
So just for simplicity, let me just pass it on to Argo dot YAML.
And within our Argo YAML file you can search for custom resource definition.
And you see it is still available.
So the Skip Crds is not really working on this specific project since these are still configured.
So when you do helm install, all of the things that you will see over here will get configured in your
Kubernetes cluster.
So this is one of the reasons why it is very important that for a specific helm chart that you are planning
to use, read the details that have been specified over here very carefully.
So again you have a detailed documentation over here.
The one that we are interested in is the custom resource definition.
So here it is clearly stating that you can disable the CRD installation of this chart by using the set
CRD dot install equals to false when installing this chart.
And we were discussing that there was a condition of CRD install in the custom resource definition,
and this is what we are explicitly setting it to false.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
I'll run the same command.
But this time we'll not use the skip Crds.
We'll say hyphen hyphen set Crds dot install equals to false.
And we are going to use the same command over here.
Great.
Now when you open the Argo dot YAML again let's go ahead and search for custom resource definition.
You see there are none.
Alright so this is one point.
Now within our GitHub guide, what I have done is we had run this specific command right with the skip
crds and dry run.
However, we made a small change.
We piped it to Argo YAML and through the Visual Studio Code we were manually searching if the Crds were
configured in the YAML file.
Now, generally from the exam perspective, you have to know how you can do it through the CLI to save
time.
So this is the reason why from the exam perspective, this command would remain to be the same and you
can easily do a grip on the custom resource definition to see whether the crds are getting skipped or
not.
This is one point to keep a note of.
Now you also need to understand it from the perspective of helm template.
Now again both the helm install and hemp template, both of them.
If you want to skip the crds for this project, you will have to use this set Crds dot install equals
to false for both of them.
Let's also try the helm template command.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll run this specific command.
Now sometimes in exams they will say that go ahead and configure the helm template without the crds.
So this is the reason why we are exploring this specific command.
So the output of this is in Argo hyphen no.
Hyphen crd YAML.
So this is the file.
And within here if you want to verify you can search for custom resource.
And you have none available.
So this is good.
And again note that from exam perspective the grep is what you will use to quickly verify whether the
final manifest has CRD or not.
So this is a very high level overview about skipping Crds specifically while using helm.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Authentication in Kubernetes ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about authentication in Kubernetes.
Now before we discuss about it, let's quickly revise the basics of authentication.
Now at a high level overview authentication is the process of verifying the user's identity before granting
them access to the system or resource.
In fact, this is something that all of us would know that if we log in to our laptops or desktop devices,
the first thing that it asks us is to supply the appropriate password.
So this is primarily what authentication is about.
Now in a similar way, even in Kubernetes, to access a resource as part of the Kubernetes cluster,
one of the important things that we need to do is we have to authenticate first.
So let's say that you have a client over here and you have a Kubernetes cluster.
Now this unknown client suddenly sends a request to the Kubernetes cluster asking to create ten pods.
Now will Kubernetes create ten pods?
The answer is it depends whether the client is authenticated or not.
In an ideal scenario.
So if this specific client is not authenticated.
Kubernetes will ask the client to authenticate first, and then if the user has the permission, the
appropriate access will be granted.
Now, one part to note specifically when we discuss about authentication is that there are always multiple
methods that are available.
For example, if we discuss about AWS or even for other providers, also you can authenticate using
multiple set of methods.
One of the common one is the username and password.
So if you want to log in to the AWS console, it will ask you to supply the username and password.
However, you can also have the access and secret keys that are configured as part of the CLI.
And using these credentials you can connect to the AWS services from the CLI point of view.
Now, one very important point that needs to be noted is that in Kubernetes it does not manage the user
accounts natively.
And this is the reason why normal users cannot be added to the cluster through an API call.
For an example for the individuals who are new to Kubernetes.
They would assume that you can run commands like kubectl create user Alice, and it will create a new
user of Alice in Kubernetes.
So this is something that is not possible in Kubernetes.
The approach is a little different.
Now discussing about authentication from Kubernetes point of view, one point that needs to be noted
is that Kubernetes supports several authentication methods, something similar to the example of AWS
that we saw that multiple set of authentication methods are supported.
Now again, we just took an example of username and password and access secret key.
But there are other methods also where the credentials can be fetched from the Active Directory, Saml
and so on.
In a similar way, when we discuss about Kubernetes, the authentication methods that are supported
are quite many.
So you have client certificates that are available.
You have a static token, authentication service, account tokens and many more.
So let's take one example related to static token authentication where what will happen is in the The
Kubernetes will reference to a specific file that has a token and a username token.
You can consider it to be a password.
Now you are not really creating this users in the Kubernetes.
Instead, you are just telling Kubernetes to reference to this file and any user who connect to the
Kubernetes cluster using this token, the Kubernetes should authenticate it.
So in case if a user wants to create certain resources and provided that the user has also added a token,
the authentication can be successful.
So let's do one thing.
Before we proceed further, let's look into the authentication based options that are available post
which will be discussing about few from the demo perspective.
Now, when you explore the authentication related documentation in Kubernetes, one thing that you will
see, let's go a bit down.
You will see that there are multiple methods that are available.
One of the common one that you will see is X509 client certificates.
Then you have the static token file.
Then you have the bootstrap tokens over here.
If you go a bit down you have the service account tokens.
And again, if you go a bit down you also have the OpenID connect tokens.
This again is interesting.
In this case you have the identity provider, something like say Active Directory where your identities
are stored.
So if a user logins to the IDP over here and if the authentication is successful, ultimately you will
get a token.
And that token is something that a user uses to connect to the Kubernetes cluster.
So for today's demo, we are going to take two examples that will give us better clarity on how things
work.
One of the example is related to the static token file.
Now in this case, what happens is that you have a file that is created that has the token, which is
like a password, the username, and a few more other details like the UID.
So this specific file as we are discussing it contains important information like token, username,
uid and other optional areas as well.
Now what you do is when you start Kubernetes, you reference to this specific file and you tell Kubernetes
that you have a token based authentication file that is available, and Kubernetes should use the contents
of this file as part of the authentication.
So if tomorrow a user uses this specific password to connect to the Kubernetes cluster, Kubernetes
should authenticate it.
Alright, so this is the high level overview of static token file.
In fact, let me also quickly show you this from a demo perspective so that we get a better idea.
So for today's demo I already have a token based authentication that is configured.
Now if you look into the Kubernetes configuration you'll see that in the token auth file I specify this
specific path which is root token dot csv.
Now if you explore this specific path over here, you see that you have specified a token, you have
specified the username, and you have specified the Uuid as well.
So this means that a user can make use of this token as part of the authentication.
Now again you don't really have to do that.
The aim here is to understand things from conceptual point of view so that our R basic is clear now
when we make a curl request using this specific token.
So this is the password.
And we send that request to the local running kube API server.
Let's press enter.
You see we are able to see the contents over here.
So this means that the authentication has been successful.
Now in this case in fact let me show you let's change this token a little.
I'll remove this so that it becomes invalid.
And if I press enter immediately here you see we are getting an unauthorized message.
So from here we can clearly state that Kubernetes is authenticating using this specific token that we
had added as part of the token dot csv file.
The example number two is related to the X509 certificates.
Again, it is not necessary that you should use tokens, and generally from the production environment
perspective, the static token file is generally not used.
In such cases, you can make use of client certificates for the authentication.
In this case, each user as part of your organization will have its own certificate and the client key,
and using the certificate and the client key, the user will authenticate to the Kubernetes cluster.
Let me also quickly show you this.
Now for the certificate based authentication let me in fact show you.
So currently I'm connected to a kube ADM based cluster.
And when I do kubectl get pods over here we have certain pods that are running.
However the important part is how is cube CTL authenticating with the API server.
So this is where the certificates come into picture.
For example, if you look into the kube config file that the cube CTL is using.
If you see this is the user and this is the client certificate over here.
And this is the client key.
So using this client certificate and the client key the authentication happens.
Now note that this part might be a little confusing.
This is basically base 64.
So if you just decode it it will make better sense.
Let me just copy this.
And if I just add it in any base64 decode tool let's decode it.
So this is what the certificate really looks like.
And in fact, this is also a little confusing.
You do not really know what exactly this has to do with authentication.
So you can also decode it.
So for that you can paste the certificate over here and you will get the important information from
here.
For example the common name here is the Kubernetes admin.
So you can consider it to be the username that will be used as part of the authentication.
Along with that, there are other important information as part of the certificates as well.
So X509 certificates are also quite common.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you.
In fact, if I just open one more tab when I do a cube CTL get pods.
So currently I'm not really logged in to the server.
I am logged in to my Windows Local terminal.
All right.
So this is the local terminal.
In fact if I do a cube CTL cluster info you will get to know what this is about.
So if you see this is the URL of the control plane node which is in DigitalOcean.
So basically my local terminal is connected to a managed Kubernetes service based on DigitalOcean.
Now, since kubectl is running over here, let's look into what is the default configuration when it
comes to the DigitalOcean manage service in terms of authentication?
Now if I quickly go to the kube folder, we have a config file that is available.
Let's open this with say vs code.
And if you see over here you have the server.
As we know this is the DigitalOcean managed cluster.
And as part of authentication this is the user.
And this is the token.
So in DigitalOcean case as of now they are using token based authentication.
Now how this token has been generated.
There can be multiple approaches to that.
For example, as we were discussing even when we talk about the OpenID connect tokens, this is also
where you get the token.
So there are multiple ways in which you can get token.
So it is not necessary that if a token is provided it is a service account token or it is coming from
a static token file.
This is just the assumption there are multiple mature ways also.
Alright.
Now note that this part changes because last year when DigitalOcean cluster was being used, they used
to have a certificate based authentication, but recently they moved from certificate based authentication
to a token based approach.
So depending upon the cloud provider that you use, the approach of authentication to Kubernetes might
change as well.
Alright.
However, one point to note here, as we are discussing that Kubernetes does not manage the user accounts
natively.
So all of these things that we were discussing, like the static token file, these usernames were not
created in Kubernetes as an object.
Kubernetes was just referencing this external file and using this as part of verification during the
authentication process.
Alright.
And same goes with the certificates as well.
Now, before we conclude, one last point that needs to be noted is the categories of users.
Now when we discuss about Kubernetes, there are two primary categories of users.
One is the normal users, like the human beings, and second one is the service account specifically
for applications or processes.
So for both of them you will have probably a different way of authentication.
Now service accounts will also use tokens which you can also make use of in case if you would like.
But generally when we discuss about users, you have a certificate based authentication that is primarily
used.
But when we discuss about, say, application that is running inside a pod.
Now, are you going to generate a certificate for that application?
Even if you do, it is going to be cumbersome.
So generally for services or processes that are running inside Pod, you have service accounts that
are available and using the service accounts and the appropriate tokens, the application inside the
pods can authenticate to the Kubernetes cluster to retrieve or add some data accordingly.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the authentication aspect in Kubernetes.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Authorization in Kubernetes ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about authorization in Kubernetes.
Now before we discuss about it, let's quickly revise the basics at a high level.
Overview.
Authorization is the process of determining what an authenticated user or entity is allowed to do.
Now let's assume that you have created a new AWS user.
Now, this new AWS user is trying to delete all of the servers that are running in the entire AWS account.
So the question is, should he be allowed to do that?
And the answer is it depends if he has a permissions or not.
If he has permission, he will be able to do that.
If he does not have permission, he will not be able to do that.
So this part of permissions is where authorization comes into picture.
Now in fact, let me also show you this from a high level overview.
So currently in AWS I have multiple users.
Now when we look into this specific test user over here, this user at this stage, you see, does not
really have any permission.
So in case if this user logs in to AWS and tries to delete the server, he will not be able to do that.
Why?
Because the user does not have any permission.
Now let's say that I want this user to be able to delete.
In such case, I'll have to explicitly add permission to this specific user.
For example, let's say that I want to add administrator permission for this user.
And now user will be able to perform all of the operations.
So this specific part that we just did of adding a permission for a specific user, this part is related
to the authorization.
Now when we discuss about it from the Kubernetes perspective, note that the authorization takes place
following the authentication.
So first part is always the authentication.
And then the authorization will come into picture.
All right.
So generally in idle scenario a client making a request must first be authenticated.
Whatever method, it does not really matter before the request can be allowed in the authorization phase.
So you have the authentication, you have the authorization, and you have the Kubernetes resource.
It can be pods, secrets, etc. these are the two major areas.
Now if this specific client wants to access this resource then the step number one in an ideal scenario
is the authentication.
If the user is successfully authenticated, will that mean that the user will be able to perform all
of the operations in Kubernetes?
Will he be able to delete all of the pods, fetch all of the secrets, etc.?
And the answer is it depends whether the user has the permission or not.
So after user authenticated using say X509 certificates or token, then the step number two is the authorization.
Authorization is the place where Kubernetes will determine whether this user who has authenticated has
permission on the Kubernetes resources or not.
And after authorization phase succeeds, then the request will go towards the Kubernetes resources.
If a user does not have permission, then it will be blocked at the authorization phase itself.
Now, in Kubernetes, there are a wide set of authorization modes that are available to suit multiple
set of environments.
Let's take example of three.
There are many, but we are taking example of three because we just want to understand this topic of
authorization at an overview.
Now you have three authorization mode always allow, always deny and Rbac three as part of this table.
Now always allow by the name itself.
We can determine that this mode allows all the requests.
So ultimately if a user is authenticated, he will not be denied at the authorization phase.
All of the operations that he is trying to perform will be allowed.
Second is always deny where this mode will block all of the of the requests.
And in fact, both of these modes that we were discussing are generally used only for testing.
They are not really used for production environments.
And the third very important authorization mode is related to Rbac.
Rbac is where we go ahead and set the permissions, and based on the permission policies, the access
will be granted.
So let's also have a quick demo to understand these.
Now one point to note is that this specific part that we were discussing, where we added the administrator
access this ultimately behind the scenes is a policy.
So Rbac that you see over here is something similar to this, where you have to go ahead and add the
appropriate permissions.
And based on the permission that you have defined the policy will either allow or block based on the
request when it reaches the authorization stage.
Let's also have a quick demo on these.
Now for today's demo, I have a locally configured Kubernetes cluster that is set for a static file
authentication.
and we also have authorization related configuration in place.
Note that this is a demo video.
The aim here is to understand the concept.
You don't really have to replicate it at this stage.
All right.
So let me in fact show you the configuration of my Kubernetes cluster.
Now if you will see I have the API server running.
And the authorization mode here is always allow.
And we also have a token file of route token CSV.
Now at this stage if I quickly do a cat on root token dot CSV, this is the token that is available.
So this is something like a password that will be used as part of the authentication.
Now at this stage when we run a command of kubectl get pods, we are also adding the token over here
because authentication is required.
Because at this stage the kubectl does not have the kube config file to authenticate.
So in fact let me do a kubectl get pods.
So at this stage you are getting error.
Failed to verify certificate.
That is fine because this is a local cluster for testing.
So what I'll do, I'll just add a insecure skip TLS verify so it does not really verify the TLS certificate.
Now at this stage you are getting an error.
What is the error?
It states you must be logged in to the server unauthorized.
Now this specific part although at the authorization stage.
In fact let me also quickly show you at the authorization stage here you have always allow.
So it will always allow all of the requests considering that they are authenticated.
This is one important part to remember.
So at this stage, since we are not authenticated, we are getting an error as soon as we authenticate
to the Kubernetes cluster.
Irrespective of what method you use, you will not be blocked at the authorization stage.
So this is the reason why when we run the kubectl get pods command, we are specifying the token and
we are also doing insecure skip tls verify.
This is This is something that you will not really have to do when you have a properly configured cluster.
But the aim here is to understand that this specific part is working.
Now let's say that I'll say kubectl delete pods all.
I'll just use the same token and I'll skip the TLS verification.
You see it is working.
There is no authorization that is blocking the request that we are making using this specific token.
Alright.
So this is the reason why always allow is generally not used for production environment.
The second one is always deny from the name itself we can identify what it does.
Now let me also quickly show you this.
So if I just quickly modify the API server file again.
Note this is a demo video only.
So we are changing it from always allowed to always deny.
I'll just do a daemon reload and I'll just quickly restart the API server.
Once this is done.
Now if we make the same kubectl request of, say get pods, you see, we are immediately getting an
error which states everything is forbidden.
So at an overview you don't really want always allow, which gives too much permission.
You also don't want always deny which does not give permission at all.
So you need some kind of a balance.
And this is where Rbac really proves to be very useful.
Now generally if we explore the documentation related to authorization, let's go a bit down.
You see that in the authorization modes there are multiple authorization modes like always allow always
deny Rbac.
Rbac is used quite extensively in the production environments.
You also have attribute based access control.
So primarily in production environments you will see Rbac is being used quite extensively.
You also have other methods that are available like node and webhook.
Webhook also is something that you will see now at an overview.
At this stage we are just discussing what this authorisation phase is all about.
Now what authorisation method that you use depends however, based on the method.
Ultimately, after authentication completes, the request will either be allowed or either be denied
based on the authorization mode that you choose.
Now, when we discuss about the role based access control, now in the role based access control, as
we were discussing that you have to define a policies.
And this policy will define what exactly the user will be able to do on what resources.
For example, here you have resource of pods and what are the actions allowed.
You have get watch and list.
These are the actions that are allowed on pods.
So all of these policies at a high level overview.
When we compare to the AWS set of policies, something similar, but the way in which you define it
again differs.
So this is where the Rbac comes into picture, and in the right video we are going to discuss about
the Rbac in great detail and how you can use that to give the appropriate permissions to the authenticated
users.
Now, before we conclude, one point that we need to keep a note is that in Kubernetes, let's say that
you are configuring your own Kubernetes cluster and you forgot to specify the authorization mode.
So if authorization mode is not explicitly defined, then the default mode is used which is always allow.
So this is the reason why generally when you create your own Kubernetes clusters from scratch, you
have to be very careful.
You should be knowing a lot of important configurations.
Otherwise your cluster will become insecure.
However, at this stage we are not really discussing about that.
The aim here is to remember this point at a high level.
Overview.
Now again, one point to note is that when we discuss about managed Kubernetes cluster, all of these
things you do not really have to worry about.
The managed provider takes care of it.
Now, before we conclude, I also wanted to show you this specific workflow so that it becomes easier
for us to remember.
So now when a user makes a request to the API server, considering that it is authenticated, the next
part is the authorization mode.
Always allow.
As we are discussing, the requests will always be allowed.
Always deny the request will always be denied.
And then when it comes to Rbac, this is where you can have a fine grained control.
So if it is a admin user and the permissions are there, access will be granted.
If, say you have a developer user and he has some permissions over the pods, then only the pod related
resources will be allowed.
If a user does not really have a permission at all, then in such case the access is denied and so on.
So Rbac is something that we are going to discuss in great detail in the upcoming set of videos.
However, at this stage, I hope the basic of the authorization phase is something that makes better
sense now.
So with this, we conclude today's video.

--- Role Based Access Control (RBAC) ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the role based access control, also referred to
as Rbac.
Now within your Kubernetes cluster, if you have the Rbac based authorization mode enabled, it allows
us to control what actions specific entities like user groups service accounts can perform on the resources
within your cluster.
For example, whenever a request is made towards your Kubernetes cluster, the first important part
is authentication.
If authentication succeeds, and if you have the right authorization, and considering that you have
the authorization of Rbac, then at the Rbac level, there will be certain set of permissions based
on the permissions.
You will either be granted the access or you will be denied the access.
So let's look into it from the basic workflow perspective.
So within here you have a set of users like Alice Bob.
And then you also have set of permissions like list pods, create delete secrets etc..
So the first point states that in the below diagram here in the table one, you have a list of users.
And in the table two you have list of permissions.
Now these two are separate entities.
Altogether they are not really connected.
So you might have certain list of users.
You might have certain list of permissions.
But this does not really mean that the user of Alice and Bob will be associated with these specific
permissions.
So if you want that the user of Alice and Bob should get these specific permissions, then ultimately
you will have to bind them or you will have to connect them together.
Once you have these binded, then the users will get all of the permissions that are been listed over
here.
Now that we understand the basic conceptual workflow, let's go ahead and link it with three important
Kubernetes specific concepts.
First important one is the rule.
Now at a high level overview rule defines a set of permissions.
So here instead of permissions that we had in had in the earlier slide.
You have a role, and this role provides a certain set of permissions like list pods, create, delete
secrets, etc. then you have subjects.
These subjects can be users, groups or even service accounts.
And as we know, these two are independent at this stage.
Now if you want that these specific subjects, whatever it may be, are allowed to perform the actions
that are part of this role, then you will need a role binding.
What role binding does?
It connects the subjects to the role.
So once role binding is in place, then whatever permissions role has the subject will inherit those
specific permissions.
Now let's go ahead and discuss more in detail about role.
One very important point specific to role is that a role always sets the permission within a particular
namespace.
Now if you see you have a role definition and you have a permission like get pods, list namespaces,
create secrets, watch pod logs now.
Permissions.
You have good amount of flexibility.
What exactly you want the user or what exactly you want the group to be able to do.
Now, whatever this role has, this is always part of the namespace scope.
So you can create a role for say default namespace.
You can create one more role for a different namespace, etc..
And the second concept as we were discussing is the role binding, which associates the role with the
user groups or service account within a specific namespace.
Very important part to remember.
So for example, you have a create secrets permission as part of this role.
Now when this role is associated with a group of user, the group of users will be able to create a
secret only in a specific namespace.
They will not be able to create secrets in other namespace.
It is very specific to a namespace over here.
All right, so let's do one thing.
In today's video we are going to have a demo.
And in the upcoming videos we'll have a separate detailed practical so that we understand it properly.
However, today's video is a demo video.
Aim is to understand the concept.
Now for today's demo I have two tabs open in a custom Kubernetes cluster.
In the first tab, my kubectl is associated with the admin privileged user.
In the second tab, the cube ctl is associated with the user named Bob.
From the admin user over here, when I say kubectl get pods, we are seeing certain information now
from the Bob user.
When I say kubectl get pods, you see we are getting an error.
What is the error?
Error is forbidden.
Pods is forbidden.
User Bob cannot list the resource pods.
So this is clearly the permission issues.
Now, as we were discussing, when you want to give a permission as part of Rbac, the first thing that
you will require is a role.
Second thing you require is certain subjects like user.
And the third thing that you require is a role binding.
Now for this demo.
I already have a user of Bob, so the first part is done.
Remaining part is the role and the role binding.
Now from the server.
If I do a LHS we have few important files here.
One is the role, second one is the role binding.
You also have a cluster role and cluster role binding, which we will be discussing in just a moment.
Aim here is to understand this specific part first.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and quickly create a role.
Now when you do a cube CTL get roles.
We have one role of pod read only that is available.
And when you do a cube CTL describe role pod read only, you will see that the name of role is pod read
only and in the resources you have pods and in the verbs you have list.
So this means that this role gives list permission on the resource of pod.
And where exactly does it go?
Because sport can run in multiple namespaces.
So this list permission on pod is only for the namespace where the role is available at this stage,
which is the default namespace.
Now at this stage, when a role is created, it does not associate itself with the user or a group or
a service account.
You have to explicitly associate using role binding.
So for example, if I run kubectl get pods again you are getting an error.
So now the next important step is the role binding.
So what we are going to do I'll say kubectl apply role binding over here.
Now once the role binding is created when I do a kubectl get role binding we have this role binding
available.
Now when you describe this role binding let's specify the name of role binding.
You will see few important information here.
Your first important information is the name of the rule.
So what it says this specific rule of pod read only and the subjects here is user of Bob.
So whatever permission this specific rule has, this permission should be given to the user of Bob.
Now once you have a role binding in place, when you do kubectl get pods, you see the Bob user is able
to list the pods.
This is one part.
Second important part that we were discussing is that the role is bound to a specific namespace.
Now from the admin user, when I say kubectl get pods in the namespace of, say kube system, then there
are multiple pods that are available.
Now the same command.
If I run from Bob user, you see it is not really working.
Why?
It is not really working.
Because this specific role that we see over here.
This role is in the default namespace only, so it will only give permission to the Bob user in the
default namespace.
If this role would have been in say security namespace, then it would permit Bob to view the ports
in the security namespace only.
So I hope this part is clear.
The second part that I wanted to share is that at this stage, Bob is able to see the ports, but Bob
does not have a permission on other aspects.
For example, if Bob tries to create a pod, let's say Bob pod with the image of nginx, you are getting
an error.
In a similar way, if Bob tries to delete a pod, let's say this specific pod you see again you have
the error message.
So what permission Bob has.
Let's verify the only permission that Bob has.
When you do a describe role over here.
So the only permission that a bob has is related to the resource of Pod and only the list permission.
So now if Bob tries to do a cube CTL get secret, this will also be forbidden because the role does
not really allow it.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of role and role binding.
Now you have one more very important concept of cluster role and cluster role binding.
It is very similar to roll and role binding with one major difference.
And the difference is that the permission that is being granted by cluster role applies to all the namespaces
in the cluster.
So even in this specific image, you see that the cluster role definition has a cluster wide scope.
However, when we discuss about role definition, the role definition had namespace specific scope.
So in such cases let's say that you have a get permission on Ports using Clusterrole.
Then the user will be able to view the pods in all the namespaces, so you are not really restricted
at a namespace level.
This is one of the major difference.
Along with that, there are certain resources like nodes.
They are not really confined at a namespace level.
So this is where also cluster role is generally used.
However, in today's video we are going to discuss at a high level overview.
When we discuss about it from the practical point of view, we will go in more detail.
Now let's do one thing.
At this stage we had created role and role binding.
So I'll quickly delete the role and I'll also delete the role binding.
Now what we are going to do this time we are going to create a cluster role and the cluster role binding.
So first let's go ahead and quickly create a cluster role.
And then I'll create a cluster role binding.
Great.
So once you have this created let's verify.
So when I say cube CTL get cluster role.
This time you see there are so many cluster roles that are available.
Why?
Because as we know cluster roles are not really namespace specific.
So all of these cluster roles that you are seeing, these are from all of the namespaces as part of
the Kubernetes cluster.
Now this is something similar to say cube CTL get roles when we do all namespaces.
You see there are so many roles that are available, but these roles are specific to a namespace, as
you can see over here.
Now, since cluster roles are not really specific to a namespace, when you just do a cube CTL get cluster
role, you will get all of the cluster roles together.
Now, the name of the cluster role that we had created is the pod read only.
Alright, so let's look into what exactly this cluster role gives a permission.
So I'll say cube CTL describe Scribe cluster rule.
The name of the cluster rule, and if you see the output is exactly similar to that of the rules, you
have a pod.
The verbs here is list.
So whatever user is binded with this specific cluster rule will have this permission of pods listing.
All right.
Now second part is the cluster role binding.
I'll say kubectl get cluster role binding again.
You see there are so many cluster role bindings.
The one that we are interested in is this specific one.
This is the one that we had created.
Now when you do kubectl describe cluster role binding you can just give the name.
You will see again a very similar output as the role binding.
Here you specify the name of the role.
In this case this is the cluster role.
The kind is cluster role.
And this is the name of cluster role.
And the user name is Bob.
Now for the For the Bob user.
When he does kubectl get pods, definitely he'll be able to see the pods in the default namespace.
However, if Bob also wants to see the pods in, say, kube system namespace, this will also work.
And if Bob wants to see pods in all the namespaces, this will also work since it is a cluster.
All the namespace is not really a constraint over here.
All right, so I hope with this at a very high level overview, you understood the basics of the role
role binding and the cluster role cluster role binding and how the role and the cluster role can be
connected to a set of subjects.
It can be users, it can be groups.
It can also be service accounts.
At this stage we had a demo related to users, but the flexibility is there.
So that's the overview.
When we do the practicals, we will discuss about this part in great detail.
So with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Creating Token for RBAC Practicals ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now, whenever you want to test the Rbac, there are a few important things that you will need.
First important part that you will require is the subject.
As we know that whatever permissions that you define in the role, these permissions are binded to a
certain set of subjects.
It can be users, it can be groups, it can be service accounts.
So if you do not have the subjects, it is difficult to test the appropriate role based policies.
So in today's video, before we go ahead and test out the role and role binding, practically we have
to make sure that this subject part is ready.
So for today's practical we are going to generate a token.
This token will be associated with the service account.
And the service account is where we'll do the overall role binding.
And the role will be associated with the service account.
So this becomes much more easier.
Now what we are going to do.
First we are going to check what are the service accounts that are available.
At this stage you only have a default service account that is available.
This is fine.
We'll create a new service account.
Let's just call it as test hyphen essay.
Now when you do a cube CTL get service account, you have this test hyphen essay that is available.
The next part that we are going to create is the token.
Now when you say cube CTL create token you can specify test hyphen s which is the service account.
You will get this specific token.
Now this is JWT.
And in fact if you want to see the contents of this in Google you can just type JWT decoder.
There are multiple examples here.
You can just add the token over here, and you will be able to see that this token has the expiry date.
Now generally depending upon the cluster this part can change.
However this expiry is of one hour.
So this means that after one hour, the token that is generated over here will become invalid.
And this is something that we do not really want, primarily because let's say that you are going to
watch this specific video.
Now the practical video of role and role binding, you might watch after 5 or 6 six hours.
So you want the token to be valid for longer amount of time.
Now, in fact, in Google you can also convert the time.
You can open a few websites here.
So this time that you see over here you can copy this and you can just add it over here you can click
on convert.
And in the relative you see in an hour.
So after an hour the token will get expired.
So this is something that we do not really want.
So what you can do you can say cube CTL create token.
You can just do hyphen hyphen help.
There is one important flag over here which is the duration.
So within here you can change the duration.
You can say cube CTL create token test hyphen S and the duration you can specify say 100 hours.
All right.
Now when you copy this specific token let's add it in here.
Let's check the expiry.
We'll replace this.
And you see in relative it is four days.
So this is much more better now that you have the token.
The next important part is to set it as part of the environment variable.
Otherwise, what will happen is whenever we make a request to Kubernetes cluster using curl, then for
all of the requests, we will have to specify this entire token as part of the curl.
So this is something that you do not really want.
You see, it is much more lengthier, and you will not be able to see the command that you add as part
of curl.
So in order to overcome this, we'll go ahead and we'll set it as part of the environment variable.
Now I'll set a temporary environment variable in windows that will be associated with this tab only
in case if you'd like you can also set it permanently.
Now again note that the approach of setting the environment variable in Windows and Linux might be a
little different.
So for example, in a Linux based system, if I say token equals to you, specify the entire token.
And then what you can do, you can just do echo token and you get the entire token.
Now, in a similar way, in windows, if you try to do something like token equals to the token value,
immediately you get an error.
So what you have to do, you have to use the set command.
Token equals to.
You can specify the entire token over here.
And if you want to verify the token you can say echo token.
This is windows specific one.
And for Linux as we know you can specify echo token.
And the Linux part will also work for Mac.
So small changes in terms of command.
However the aim here is that you should have an environment variable of token so that when you make
use of curl, you can directly specify token.
Something similar to this in windows and in Linux or Mac OS, it should be something similar to this.
So you don't really have to specify the entire lengthy token is what we are looking for.
This is one part.
Now again, note that specifically when it comes to windows, also this token that we had set is of
this type only.
So if I open up one more tab and if I do an echo token, it will not really work.
So the curl command that you are going to run to test, or to make a request to the Kubernetes cluster
to authenticate.
The curl command also needs to run from this specific tab only.
If you use a different tab, then it will not really work because token itself is not available.
And in fact, if you want token to be available, you will have to go ahead and set the token in this
specific tab also.
Again, this is a temporary solution.
You can also set the token permanently as part of the environment variable in windows.
However, at this stage we are keeping it simple.
All right, now that you have the token available associated with the subject in the upcoming video,
we'll go ahead and we'll create role and cluster role.
And then we'll use the role binding and cluster role binding to associate permission with the entity
associated with that token.
And we'll see on how we can make use of a curl, using the token to send multiple set of requests to
the Kubernetes cluster.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Role and RoleBinding ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to explore the roll and roll binding from a practical perspective.
So let's get started.
Now before we try it out practically, it is important for us to understand the manifest structure for
both roll and roll binding.
So let's go ahead and quickly get started.
Now similar to other Kubernetes objects, also when you want to define a roll, you can specify the
API version.
The kind here is the roll in the metadata name, you have the name of the roll and namespace you can
specify in which namespace you want to create the roll.
As we know, rolls gives permission specific to a namespace, so this is one point to note.
Now again, even if you don't specify namespace whatever default namespace is available, the roll will
be created there and the permission will only be granted to that specific namespace.
Now, when you explore the complete roll based manifest file, something similar to this screenshot.
One of the most important part here is related to the fields of rules.
Now within here there are three areas that you primarily specify.
One is the API group, second is the resources.
Third is the verbs.
And based on what you specify as part of the rules, the role will give the permission accordingly to
the associated subject.
Now it is also important for us to understand what API groups are, resources are, verbs are, and
this will in turn allow us to write the policies in great detail.
Now the first area is the API groups.
At a high level overview, it specifies which API group the rule applies to.
Now generally when we discuss about Kubernetes, the APIs are categorized into multiple API groups.
For example, when you have an empty string, something similar to this, it refers to the core API
group.
And inside core API groups you have multiple set of resources like Pod services, etc. then you have
API groups of apps.
Now inside apps you have deployments, daemonsets, replica sets, etc. So ultimately, based on the
resources part that you define over here, the value in the API groups can change accordingly.
Now the next important part is the resources within this specific field.
We can specify to which resource the permission gets applied to.
Now whatever resource that you define it can be part secrets, etc. the resources also belongs to a
specified API group.
So for example, if you look here kubectl api resources you specify API group of apps.
Now within here you have multiple set of resources that are available.
So when you create a role based manifest file in the API group, let's say you are creating a rule for
daemon sets.
So then the API group can be this one apps part.
And then in the resources you can add daemon sets deployments etc..
Let's go ahead and also quickly try it out.
Now generally from the documentation perspective, when you check the API documentation you can also
see what resource belongs to which API group.
For example when you explore Pod.
Pod belongs to the core API group and in the table, as we are discussing, if you have a specific resource
that belongs to core API group, you can just have an empty string and it will automatically take the
core API group here.
In a similar way, if you take few more examples, let's take example related to deployments.
So let's search for deployments.
When we look into deployments you see the group here is APS.
So depending upon what resource you are targeting from the permission perspective this part can change.
Now generally when you say kubectl API resources and let's say API group you say as APS.
So now it will show you what are the resources that are available as part of this API group of APS.
Now in a similar way, if you just leave it empty, it will show you what are the resources that are
available primarily of the core API group.
So you have Pod services, etc..
so at a high level overview, we understood about API groups.
We understood about resources.
The last part is the verbs.
So at a high level overview verbs specifies what actions are allowed on the specified resource.
Now there are multiple commonly used verbs.
For example, you have git which allows you to read a specified resource, you have a list, create,
delete, etc. so depending upon what object is being referenced, the verb that you will use might also
change, but these are some of the common verbs over here.
Now that we understand about the role at a high level overview, let's also explore the structure of
role binding.
Now, whenever you define a role binding, there are two important areas that you will have to add.
One is the subjects.
Second is the role reference.
So if you see this image you have a role binding in the role binding.
The first part that you have to add is the subject.
It can be user.
It can be group.
It can be service account as well.
It depends on whom you want to give the give the permission to.
And then in the role reference, you specify to which role the subjects will be binded to.
Now if you explore this from the manifest file perspective, it would look something similar to this.
So you have a subjects.
So here in the subjects you have a user of Bob.
So you have a user subject being used.
And then in the role reference you are specifying the name of the role over here which is pod read only.
Now as you are discussing it is not necessary to have a subject of user.
You can also have different kind of subjects like groups, service accounts, etc..
Great.
So now that we understand the basics of roles and role binding, let's go ahead and try it out practically.
Now one good thing here is that you don't really have to remember the manifest file.
You can easily create roles through the CLI command.
So let's go ahead and explore this.
So when I say cube ctl create role hyphen hyphen help.
Let's explore the examples over here.
The example is very simple cube ctl create role.
The name of the role you specify verb like get, list, delete, etc. and then you specify the resources
such as pods.
Let's try it out in a different tab.
So in the next step I will say cube CTL create rule.
Let's just call it as pod reader.
The verb that we are going to specify is say list.
And then the resources that we are going to specify is pods.
Now one point to note here is that you don't really have to specify the API group over here.
It automatically if you're using the CLI command the API group is automatically fetched.
So the life is much more simpler if you are using the CLI command.
Again, you can use this to generate the manifest file as well.
So when I press enter we have a role that is created.
Now when you do cube CTL get roles, we have a pod reader role.
And when you do cube CTL describe role pod reader.
You see in the resources you have pods and in the verbs you have list.
So now what we are going to do before we create a role binding.
Let's go ahead and quickly test using a curl command to check a specific operation if it works or not.
Now what we are going to do, we are going to use cube, CTL, cluster info and ultimately whatever
details that you get over here, we are going to make use of that as part of our curl.
Now just for simplicity, I have also documented the command.
You can get it from the GitHub.
So what it says we are making use of a curl request.
We'll have to replace this specific part with the URL that we get as part of the cluster info command.
And here what we are trying to do we are going to this specific API group.
Over here we are going to namespace of default.
And we are trying to see what are the pods that are currently running.
And in order for this command to work we are explicitly specifying the authorization bearer token.
So whatever token that we had created in the earlier video, we will be using this specific token to
make this request.
So for example this is the URL that we got.
Now again this is a managed Kubernetes cluster.
If you are using a different approach like say kube adm you can just do cube CTL cluster info.
And whatever details that you get as part of the control plane you can just copy this.
All right.
So let's just copy this part and we'll replace this specific part here.
All right.
Now when you run this command in fact let's try it out without the authorization token over here.
If I press enter at this stage, we are getting an error.
What is the error?
Error is forbidden.
It states that system anonymous cannot list the resource.
So what we are trying to do is since we have created the service account and also the associated token,
we have to specify that token within the header of authorization bearer.
And then using that token will try and list the ports using the curl command.
Now again, note that this specific part will change when we discuss from the perspective of Windows
and Linux.
So in windows this part will be replaced with something like this.
All right so a small difference over here based on the operating system.
So if you're using Linux you will be using this.
So let's copy this.
Let's clear the screen.
Now from the CLI if I press enter at this stage you see it is showing as unauthorized.
However generally it should also show you the name of the user within the error message.
Now the reason why it is not working.
If I do echo on the token, the reason why it is not working is because I had opened a new tab and in
the newer tab, the token that we had added as part of the environment variable is no longer available.
Now you can also set the token permanently in windows, but we are keeping it simple.
So what we are going to do, we'll copy this.
And in the tab where we had set the token.
I'll add it here.
And at this stage it is giving you much more meaningful information.
It states pot is forbidden.
User system service account default, which is the namespace followed by the name of service account
cannot list resource ports in the API group in the namespace of default.
So at this stage we can identify that the request is going in successfully, but we are getting error
primarily from the perspective of permissions.
Great.
So now the next part as we have already created the role.
In fact let's just do cube CTL get role.
So the role is created at this stage the role binding is pending.
So let's also go ahead and create a role binding.
So I'll say cube CTL create role binding I'll just do a hyphen hyphen help.
And you can just explore the examples over here.
It is very simple cube CTL create role binding the name of role binding.
Then you have to specify the role, and then you have to specify the subject.
As we know, you can have subject like user groups as well as the service account.
So what we are going to do let's open one more tab.
And in this specific tab I'll say cube CTL create role binding.
We'll say test role binding.
Now the next important part here is the role.
So you have to specify which role will get associated.
So I'll say pod reader is the role.
And then you have the subject.
It can be user service account or group.
So generally when you are making use of a curl request within your it says user and you have the entire
user system service account default test essay.
So we are going to use this.
And I'll say user equals to I'll just specify this entire part.
Now note that this part will also work when you add it as part of the user.
So it makes life much more simpler.
Now that role binding is created when you do cube CTL get role binding.
And you can just quickly verify the role binding.
Within here in the rollover.
Here you have the pod reader and in the kind you have a user.
But this time you have the user in the format of system service account, the namespace of that and
the name of the service account over here.
Now at this stage, when we clear the screen, now after clearing the screen, if we run this specific
curl command again after the permissions are available, you see we are getting the output.
Now, the reason why this part is empty is because there are no pods that are available.
So just for simplicity what you can do, you can just manually create a pod.
Let's just call it as test pod with the image of nginx.
Once the pod is available now, we'll clear the screen.
We'll run this command again.
And this time you see, you are getting all of the details related to the pod.
This is one part.
Second thing that I wanted to share is related to the namespaces.
For example, here we had specified in the curl we had explicitly specified the namespace of default.
What happens if you change it to say kube system?
If I run the curl command again you see unauthorized.
Why unauthorized?
Because the service account token that we are using, it does not have permission to see the list of
pods in a different namespace.
Because ultimately, if you notice when you do a kubectl get role, this role is created in the default
namespace, and it will only give the permission in the default namespace.
Any other namespace is.
The permission will not really be present.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of role and role binding.
Now it is also important for us to understand it from the perspective of manifest file.
And since we are familiar with the commands, we can generate the manifest file easily using the dry
run equals to client with the output of YAML.
For example, when we had used this Use this specific command.
Let's clear the screen.
When we had used this specific command, you can say dry run equals to client with the output of YAML.
You will get the manifest file now in the manifest file.
As we know there are two important part.
The first part is the subject and the second part is the role.
So this role gets associated with this specific subject over here.
This is one part.
In a similar way you can also generate the manifest file associated with the role.
So let's clear the screen I'll quickly generate a role.
Let's just call it as test role.
The verb I'll just specify list and resources would be ports.
I'll do a dry run equals to client with the output of YAML.
So in this case we are getting an error related to resource.
You can just instead of resources you can specify resource.
Now at this stage the manifest file is created.
One interesting part as we are discussing that you don't really have to specify the API groups.
Now at this stage the Kubernetes.
Realize that you want to give permissions to pods, and this is the reason why you have the core API
group with the empty string.
Now let's say that you change the resource from pods to deployments, and this time you see the API
group is auto populated with apps.
So ideally you should be remembering this part only and using the hyphen.
Hyphen help.
All of this will be made available to you from the CLI documentation.
Now when you explore the Rbac authorization page from the documentation, you will not really see the
CLI commands.
However, you will see the basic manifest file related to roles, your API group resources and verbs.
And similarly you will also get an example related to the role binding.
As we know, you have the subjects within here you have a user groups etc. and you have the role reference.
So you can also get it from here.
You can also generate it from the CLI based on your preference.
Now before we conclude, let's go ahead and quickly delete the role and the role binding.
So I'll say cube CTL get roles.
So let's go ahead and delete the role.
And also whatever role binding was available let's delete the role binding.
And once both of them are removed when you make a request to the default namespace to see the list of
pods, this will again show you an error because the user or the service account does not really have
the permission.
So that's a high level overview.
I hope you understood about the role and role binding from practical perspective.
Now again, note that we had just used an example of curl.
You can in fact generate the cube config file using this specific details using this specific token
as well.
However, just to keep things simple, we made use of curl.
But a mature option of cube config file will be much more better from the production environment perspective.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - ClusterRole and ClusterRoleBinding ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to explore the cluster role and cluster role binding from a practical
perspective.
Now note that if your concept related to roll and role binding is clear, then cluster role and cluster
role binding will become much more easier for you to understand.
Now, when you explore the structure of the cluster role, it is very similar to that of the role.
The only difference that you will see is that in the kind.
So in the kind, instead of specifying the role, you add a cluster role and rest other things like
in the roles you have API groups, resources, verbs, everything remains to be the same.
In a similar way, when we discuss about the cluster role binding as well, you have two important areas
the subjects and the role reference.
In the subject, you can specify the user group or service accounts and in the role reference.
This time you can specify cluster role followed by the name of the cluster role.
So this is the reason why I have said that if your concept related to role role binding is clear, the
area of cluster role cluster role binding will be much more easier.
So let's go ahead and in fact try it out from a practical perspective.
Now from the CLI In the practical video of role and role binding, we had made use of a curl request
to check the list of pods that are running in a specific namespace, in this case default and also kube
system.
We had also specified the token.
Now at this stage when you press enter, we are getting forbidden message.
Why?
Because the appropriate user or a service account does not have a permission.
Now from a different tab, when you say kubectl create cluster role hyphen hyphen help.
The overall command is very similar to the role over here.
If you see you have a cube CTL create cluster role.
The name of the cluster role.
You have the verb and you have the resources.
In fact this command is very similar to that of role as well.
In fact let's copy this.
I'll add it over here and let's press enter.
At this stage when I do a cube CTL get cluster role.
Since cluster roles are not specific to a namespace, you will see that there are other cluster roles
that are being used by other components as part of your Kubernetes cluster.
The main one that we are exploring here is the is the pod reader.
So when you say cube CTL describe cluster rule.
The name of the cluster rule.
Over here you will see that the resource of pods.
And these are the verbs that are allowed.
Now the next part is related to the cluster role binding.
So when I say cube ctl get cluster role binding.
Again you will see multiple cluster role bindings that are available.
So we want to create our own cluster role binding I'll say cube CTL create cluster role binding hyphen
hyphen help.
Now within here if you go a bit down the format is simple cube CTL create cluster role binding the name
of the binding.
Then you have to specify the cluster role.
Now when it came to role binding we used to specify the role over here instead of role you have to specify
cluster role.
And then as we are discussing you can specify user.
You can specify group and others.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll clear the screen I'll say cube CTL create cluster role binding the name here.
Let's just call it as test cluster role.
Now within the Within the cluster rule that we have to specify.
In fact, from a new tab.
Let's also go ahead and verify.
I say cube CTL get cluster rule so that we don't really make any spelling mistake.
The name of the cluster rule was pod reader.
So this is what I'll specify.
And the user will specify whatever user we see over here.
I'll press enter.
And now when you say cube CTL describe cluster rule binding the name of the cluster role binding.
When I press enter just verify in the role you see cluster rule the name of the cluster role and in
the subject you have a user and this is the entire name.
Once you have done that, let's clear the screen.
When you make a curl request this time it should work.
It should show you the details of pods that are running in the default namespace, in case if there
are so.
In fact, let me show you.
When I do kubectl get pods, you see the details of pods that are running.
This is one part.
And in fact now you're not really restricted by the By the namespace.
So instead of the default namespace, if I say kube system namespace, this will also work.
Why?
Because you have a cluster role that is created this time and not the role.
So the permissions are granted at a cluster level at all.
Namespaces.
In a similar way, if you want to generate the manifest file of the cluster role, you can use the dry
run equals to client with the output of YAML.
It will be created for you and in a similar way, even for the cluster role binding.
If you want to create a manifest file, you can use the dry run equals to client and everything is made
available to you.
Apart from that, if you also check the documentation related to Rbac, you will see examples related
to cluster rule.
So this is a cluster rule based example.
And you'll also see the example related to the cluster role binding.
So if you don't really want to type the entire command, the manifest file sample are available in the
documentation for you to quickly reference.
And then you can just quickly edit this part.
All right.
So whichever way you're comfortable you can use that as long as you are able to get the appropriate
output.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Introduction to Asymmetric Key Encryption ---

Huron.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the asymmetric key encryption.
Now, the asymmetric key cryptography makes use of public and private keys to encrypt and decrypt the
data.
So let's understand this in a simple way.
So what happens in asymmetric key encryption is that there are two keys which are involved, and these
two keys are in some way related with each other.
So what happens here is that whatever data that you encrypt with one key can only and only be decrypted
with the second key here.
And in a similar way, whatever data that you encrypt with, the second key can only be decrypted with
the first key.
So that's the basic concept of asymmetric key.
So here it is referred the two keys are referred as public key and private key.
So one key is public and second key is private.
Now, as the name suggests, the public key can be shared with everyone, so you can share it across
the Internet.
There is no issue there.
And the other key is kept as secret and you do not share it with anyone.
And it is called as the private key.
So as we discussed, either of the keys can be used to encrypt a message and the opposite key from the
one which is used to encrypt the message is used for decryption.
So let's understand this.
Let's say that you have a user.
Her name is Alice.
So Alice generates two key.
One is the public key and second is the private key.
So now once the keys are generated, she can go ahead and distribute the public key among the Internet.
And she can say that anyone who wants to send me a message, encrypt that message with my public key
and send that across.
So once that message is encrypted with the public key, we know that it can only be decrypted with the
private key which the Alice user has.
So what Bob does, Bob has a message called as Hello Alice.
He encrypts that message with the Alice's public key and you have the resultant encrypted message.
So now this resultant encrypted message is something that he can send across the Internet or across
a unsafe network.
So now what Alice will do?
Alice will get this encrypted message.
She will decrypt that message with the Alice's private key and read it.
So here she can read.
Hello, Alice.
So this is the role of public and private key.
So this can also be better explained with one more diagram where you have the sender.
Sender makes use of the public key to encrypt this plaintext document.
So this plaintext document and the public key encrypts the document and with the corresponding private
key, it's not like you cannot use any other private key.
You only have to use the private key, which is associated with this specific public key through which
it is encrypted.
So through the private key, you can go ahead and decrypt the message and receiver will have the proper
message here.
All right.
Now, in fact, let me quickly show you, because asymmetric key is used in a lot of applications.
So generally at Cape Labs, what I do is whatever sensitive data that I send across the Internet, which
includes email, all of that data is in the encrypted state.
So you can see that I have sent an email credentials to one of the person who recently joined Cape Labs.
So all of the messages, if you look into the message, this is completely encrypted mail.
So even if a attacker is able to read this mail, he will not be able to decrypt it because this message
is encrypted completely.
So how things work, let's say that I have to send a message to Alice.
So what I do, I tell Alice to send me her public key.
Once she sends me her public key, I encrypt the message with her public key.
And this is how the encrypted message looks like.
It is quite big.
And then I send it across towards her email.
Now she can make use of the private key and decrypt the credentials accordingly.
Now in between, if there is a attacker who is reading a mail or even let's say that there is a Google
employee who is reading the mail, he will not be able to find out because this is encrypted.
So even if there is someone who has access towards the email and he is able to read everything, still
he will only see this encrypted block.
He will not see the email credentials.
So let's.
Understand.
A second use case of asymmetric encryption.
So this is a typical use case when a user wants to log in to a Linux server.
So what happens here that you have a user, you have a server?
Now, the server basically contains the user's public key.
All right.
So for here you see, zeal has its own public key.
So all the public key of the user who might want to log in to the server is stored in the server.
So let's understand this step.
So user zeal wants to log in to the server.
Now, since the server uses public key authentication, so instead of taking the password from the user
server will verify if the user claiming to be zeal actually holds the private key.
So here the first request via SSH is I am zeal.
I want to log in.
So server receives that message.
Server says prove by solving this.
All right, so this is encrypted over here if you see.
So this becomes the step two.
So what happens in step two, The server creates a simple challenge.
Let's say two plus three is equal to question mark.
And this simple challenge, it will encrypt it with the public key of the user and send it back to the
user.
All right.
Now, this is in a encrypted format and it is encrypted by the public key associated with the zeal user.
So only the person who holds the Associated private key will be able to decrypt the message.
So if it is public key, then it is assumed that zeal will hold its private key.
Now, within the step three, since user zeal holds the associated private key, he will be able to
decrypt the message and the answer is computed, which would be five.
So here the challenge is two plus three is equal to question mark.
And this challenge was encrypted with the zeal public key and send it across.
Now zeal.
Since he holds the private key, he quickly decrypts the message and he computes the answer as five.
He encrypts that message, which is the answer as five with the private key and sends it back to the
server.
All right.
So in stage three, the answer is encrypted with the private key and it is sent back to the server.
Now, in the step four, the server basically decrypts the message with the public key and check if
the answer is correct.
Now, do remember that if the user or in our case, if zeal has encrypted the message with the private
key, it can only be decrypted with the corresponding public key and it cannot be decrypted with any
other public key.
All right.
So server receives the answer.
It decrypts the answer with the zeal.
Public key.
So since the message is decrypted, the server can know that it was encrypted with the corresponding
private key which user zeal hold.
And this is one of the ways in which it knows that an individual who wanted to log in has the correct
associated private key, and it also looks into the challenge and then sends the authentication successful
message.
So this is one of the approaches for asymmetric key encryption.
So let me quickly show you this.
So here, whenever I am logging in through SSH, you will see with the hyphen I am specifying the private
key here.
All right.
So when I press enter here, this is just an additional password to the private key.
It automatically logged me in.
Now, if you basically look into the authorized keys here, it basically contains the public key.
So if you look into the diagram, the server hold the public key here.
All right.
So this public key was used to compute the appropriate challenge.
Depending upon the protocol that you are using, you can quickly generate a public private key pair.
So if you just do a ssh key gen.
All right.
So now it automatically generated a public key and the private key.
So if you see your public key has been saved here and your identification, which is your private key,
has been saved.
So if you go to the SSH directory, you will see that one is public key.
So this is public key and second is private key.
So if you just want to see how public key looks like this is how the public key looks like, and if
you want to see how private key looks like, this is how the private key looks like.
So this is a big key, which is difficult to remember.
So this is.
One of the ways of asymmetric key encryption, and this is the recommended approach.
So generally whenever you go in organizations and enterprises and if you want to log in to the server,
they'll generally ask you, okay, generate a public private key pair and send us the public key and
the system administrator will go ahead and put your public key within the server and through the private
key you will be able to log in.
And this is similar where I had sent an email with encrypted with the public key of the user and this
mail is being received by the user, so he'll be able to decrypt it with the corresponding private key.
Now, because of the advantages that it offers, asymmetric key encryption is used by a variety of protocols.
So some of these protocols are BGP, you have, you have Bitcoin, you even have TLS.
So the SSL websites that you might see with Green Bar TLS also extensively makes use of the asymmetric
key encryption.
You also have Smime, which uses this.
So these are some of the protocols which extensively uses asymmetric key encryption.
Again, this is just a small list.
There are a lot of others as well.
So that's the high level overview.
I hope you understood asymmetric key encryption at a glance, and I hope this video has been informative
for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Understanding SSL/TLS ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will have a high level overview about the Https protocol.
Now, Https is basically an extension to Http.
Now in Https, the communication is encrypted using the transport layer security, which is also referred
as the TLS.
Now TLS is basically a newer version of SSL.
I'm sure you might have heard SSL somewhere down the way.
Now the protocol, the Https protocol is referenced here.
So this protocol is also referred to as Http over TLS or Http over SSL.
So many times within your browser when you open up websites like banking websites or typically websites
which might contain a sensitive information, you will see this lock and also green Https.
So this lock basically means that your community version is secure.
So this is my test website and if you see the domain is labs internal.com and it has this green lock.
All right so this green lock and it is https.
Same goes with the banking website.
Even for banking website you see it has this green lock and it has the Https.
So that basically means that the communication that might be happening between the client so client
can be this browser and the website here.
In this case it is city that communication is encrypted and that can be verified with this green lock
or the Https within the domain.
So let's understand certain scenarios where Https proves to be very useful.
So in this scenario you have a user who is sending his username and password in a plain text to web
server for authentication.
So you have a web server.
So this can be certain applications and this is the user.
So you open up this website from your browser and the website asks you for login and password.
So you put your login username as KB Labs and you put the password as the certain password.
Now if there is an attacker who is sitting between them, so if there is an attacker who is sitting
and sniffing the network, then he will be able to fetch all the credentials which are passing in this
network within plain text.
So if you see over here, you have an attacker who is doing a man in the middle attack.
He fetched the username, he fetched the password and he stored it within his database.
So the longer he sniffs the network, the more username and password he will be able to get.
Now, the reason why he is able to get the password and username is because they are travelling in a
plain text.
So there are various plain text protocol like you have FTP, you have Http.
So if you use that plain text protocol to transfer sensitive data, then if there is an attack then
your credentials would be leaked.
Now there is also a second scenario where you have a man in the middle with integrity attacks.
So what happens in the integrity attack is that attacker is changing the payment details while the packets
are in transit.
So let's say that you are sending information that send $100 to Zelle at the rate so now attacker can
modify that detail, so attacker can receive it and he can modify the details.
So it says send $100 to attacker at the rate example dot internal.
So now the destination server will receive this details and if the destination server sends $100 to
the attacker, then his attack is completely successful.
So this is the integrity attack where the data itself is changed during the transit.
So to avoid the previous two scenarios that we discussed and also various others, various cryptographic
standards were clubbed together to establish a secure communication over an untrusted network.
And those standards which were clubbed together were known as SSL.
TLS So SSL was the initial version of the protocol, which was basically intended for secure communication.
So SSL 2.0 was released in the year 1995, then certain improvements.
Then you have SSL 3.0 on 1996.
Then the name got changed.
So SSL, the various protocols which are used in SSL 3.0 could be easily compromised.
So let's say that you are using a secure communication with SSL 3.0.
Then the protocols which were being used because SSL and TLS are just cryptographic standards.
So it in turn contains a lot of other protocols.
Some protocols are generally used.
Encryption.
Some protocols are being used for integrity and others.
So SSL 3.0.
The protocols that were used here were deemed to be unsafe.
That means they could be compromised.
So.
SSL 3.0 ceased to be used and you had the brand new standards.
So TLS is just the name change.
The overall concept remains the same here with different protocols being used here.
So you have TLS 1.0 in 1999, then you have 1.1, then you have 1.2 and you have the latest 1.3 in 2018,
which was released.
Now let's understand Https in a easy way.
So what happens here is that every website has a certificate, so every website which uses Https has
a certificate.
So certificate is basically like a passport which gets issued by a trusted entity.
So passport generally gets issued by a government.
So whichever government.
So in my case, if I am living in India, then the passport is issued by government of India.
However, before passport gets issued, whatever contents are there within that passport.
So it might be your name, your date of birth, your address, that contents will be verified by the
government.
So typically in India, before the passport is issued, you will see that the cops, they visit your
place to verify whether you are actually living there.
And the data that you have shared is not malicious one.
So everything is verified within your passport.
And in a similar way, the certificate is also like a passport.
It contains a lot of information and that certificate is issued by a trusted entity.
So this certificate has a lot of details like your domain name, its validity, the public key and others.
So this is a sample certificate on how exactly it looks like.
So if you see this certificate is issued to Vodacom, similar to passport.
So if I have a passport, the passport will have a name, say Zebra.
Similarly, the certificate that is been issued for your website, it will have the domain name of your
website, which is Vodacom.
Now, along with that, it has a lot of other information like version.
You have serial number, you have certificate signature algorithm, you have the issuer and also the
validity as well as the public key related information.
Now generally, whenever you open up a Https website, the web server will send you its certificate.
So that is the first thing.
So you have, let's say the web server has sent you its own certificate.
So this is like a big certificate because it contains a lot of information.
Now the browser.
So in this case client verifies if it trusts the certificate issuer or not.
So this is a big thing.
So the client has to validate if it trusts or not.
Okay.
Now if it trusts, it will also verify all the details which are within the certificate.
Like when you go international, then during the channel they will verify each and every thing.
Then once it verifies and it accepts it to be genuine, then it will take the public key information
from this certificate.
So this certificate has the public key and then it also initiates the negotiation.
Now we know that a TLS is basically used primarily for secure communication, so that is one of the
important use case.
So in order for secure communication, it takes the public key information so you will understand the
public and private key if you know the asymmetric key encryption.
So asymmetric key encryption is used to generate a new temporary symmetric key which will be used for
secure communication.
So what happens here?
It takes the public key information and a secure password.
So it's something like a secure password is generated.
So that secure password, which is referred as a symmetric key, will be used for encrypted and decryption
related operation throughout the channel.
However, that secure symmetric key is passed through asymmetric key encryption here.
So that's the high level overview.
Let me quickly show you a few things.
So if I just open up the labs internal.com.
So this is our test website.
So when I just open this up, it basically says secure connection.
So let me just expand it and it says verified by let's encrypt.
So that basically means that whatever details that are part of this certificate are being verified by
a issuer.
In this case, the issuer is let's encrypt.
There can be multiple issuers.
So when you do a more information, you will be able to get the certificate.
Information.
So here we see that this certificate is issued to labs internal.com.
It's verified by letsencrypt and it expires on 24th September 2019.
Now, if you go into the technical details, it says that the connection is encrypted.
And basically these are the protocols which are being used for the overall encryption.
And here you have TLS version 1.2.
So if you want to look into the actual certificate, this is how the certificate looks like, where
you have the common name, you have the serial number, you have the begins on.
So when it was issued till when it is issued, that basically means the expiry as well as the fingerprint.
Now, if you look into the details, these are all the details which are part of the certificate.
So you have the certificate version, you have the serial number, you have the issuer.
So in this case, the issuer is Letsencrypt.
We already seen the validity.
Now, this is one of the important part.
So this is the public key algorithm, which is RSA, and this is the actual public key.
All right.
So this is the public key through which the new symmetric key is generated, which in turn would be
used for the encrypted communication.
So it's like you cannot really send that symmetric key towards the website in plaintext.
If you send it in plaintext, again, the attacker will be able to find that out.
So you make use of this asymmetric key encryption to send the new symmetric key, which will then be
used for communication.
So what happens?
The web browser takes this public key.
Then the symmetric key is encrypted with this public key and sent it over to the web server.
Now, since the web server holds the private key, it will be able to decrypt the encrypted packet and
then the communication can begin.
Now one question comes is why will browser trust this?
So let's say browser receives a certificate and the certificate says verified by x, y, Z.
Now why will browser trust that?
That is the first question.
And second question is who will browser trust and who will it not trust?
So in order to understand that.
Let's go to options.
We'll go to privacy and security and let's go to view certificates.
So here, this basically contains the list of certificate authorities, which browser trusts.
So these are the entire list of the certificate authority, which my current Firefox browser trusts.
So if you go a bit up within the trusted entities, you also have let's encrypt over here.
So this is how things work.
So generally these issuers that you have, these issuers, you will have to pay to them.
So let's open up one of them.
So one of the issuers, you have a Comodo.
So Comodo is also one of the trusted entities within the browser.
So if you look into the SSL certificates, you can basically purchase the SSL certificates from them.
So basically they will verify because the issuer, whoever is the issuer, has to verify the details.
So if you're going through Comodo, then you will have to verify.
Then the Comodo will verify the details here.
So let's do one thing.
Let me quickly open up Wireshark.
And let's capture the packets going from the wireless interface.
And now let's open up a new private window.
And I'll open Labs internal.com.
So let's go back to Wireshark.
I'll stop the packet capture.
So let's do one thing.
Let's quickly find out the IP address associated with the domain.
So this is the IP address.
And we'll quickly create a filter.
So this is a filter.
So any packet going from my laptop towards the destination.
So currently you see the first packet was sin.
So this is part of the TCP handshake.
So as part of the TLS handshake, here you have the client.
Hello.
So any client who wants to communicate via the TLS protocol, the first packet is generally the client.
Hello.
So if you go a bit down, you also have the client key exchange.
So generally we already discussed that the server would typically send a certificate.
So the certificate would have all the information, including the public key.
So once the public key is being received by the client and the symmetric key is generated, then you
have the key exchange, which happens.
Then you have the Changecipherspec.
And just after Changecipherspec you have the encrypted message.
So this is part of the protocol.
Again, we will not be discussing in detail about the TLS handshake as of now, but generally after
this encrypted handshake message, then you typically have the application data.
Now if you look into the application data, so all the data is basically encrypted, so you will not
really know what exactly is being passed through.
So if there is any attacker who is sitting in between, he will not be able to get what exactly is this?
And if you look into the data protocol, it is Http over TLS.
This is something that we discussed in the Slide one.
To conclude this video, we'll just discuss the web server configuration because here when we open up
labs internal.com, right, it automatically happened.
The https trusted entity automatically appeared within the browser.
But internally we saw that there was a lot of things that happens in the TLS handshake.
So within the web server configuration, also the web server has to supply the certificate to the client.
Otherwise how will the client know?
So basically, so let's say this is a server name, this can be labs internal.com.
So what happens here is that you have a stanza of SSL underscore certificate where this is the certificate
chain.
So this is the certificate which is being passed to the client.
So client will then verify this certificate contents.
And you also have the SSL certificate key.
So this is basically the private key.
So we know that within the asymmetric key encryption there is both a public key and the private key.
So if a browser is encrypting the data with the public key, then the web server will decrypt the data
with the corresponding private key, which is being stored within the web server.
So the importance of this private key holds to be tremendously important because generally if this private
key is being stolen, then the communication can be decrypted as well.
So that's the high level overview about Https.
I hope at a glance you understood the Https protocol and why exactly it is being used for.
So with this we'll conclude this video.

--- Creating TLS Certificate for Authentication ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about the certificate based authentication.
Now we know that there are multiple ways in which we can authenticate to the Kubernetes cluster.
It can be using tokens, it can be using certificates and so on.
Now, the goal of today's video is to go ahead and set up the oral authentication based on the zero
nine client certificates.
So at the end of the video, we should be able to have a user and that user should be able to connect
to the Kubernetes cluster using his certificates.
Now, at a high level overview for the certificate based authentication, there are four primary steps
that are involved.
If you have worked with creating a certificates for any other entity like for website, if ever created
the SQL TLS certificates, this process will become much more simpler to understand.
For those who have not, let's go ahead and discuss it.
So the first step that we use in a certificate creation process is first we create a key and we'll generally
use the open SSL command to create a key.
Once the key is created from this key, we go ahead and generate a certificate signing request, also
referred to as a CSR.
So from the CSR we go ahead and create a new Kubernetes object, and this Kubernetes object will have
the contents of this specific CSR and this Kubernetes object.
When uploaded to your Kubernetes server, you can either approve it or deny it.
If you approve it, then in the output you will get the actual certificate.
Now, once you have the certificate, you can make use of the key that was generated as part of the
first step and the certificate.
Both of them you can use along with the client like you need to authenticate with the cube API server
or note that both of these things will be required by your Cube CTL command as part of the oral authentication.
So this is a very high level overview.
Let's go ahead and look into it practically.
Now throughout this practicals, we'll need various tools like Open SSL Bay 64 for our oral configuration.
Now you can either go ahead and install and configure the environment variables associated with all
of these tools in your Windows laptop or your Mac laptop, or you can simply create a Linux server or
maybe even a Linux Docker container and use these tools right away.
So for simplicity, what I'll be doing, I'll quickly create a new Linux server and we'll be using the
open SSL commands from there.
So from the digital ocean environment, let's quickly create a new server.
I'll be using the Ubuntu 22, ltas will be using the smallest server.
The cheapest one will select the data center region.
Under the authentication.
Let me quickly use the password based authentication for simplicity.
I'll set the password once the password is set.
We'll go a bit down.
You can give a hosting.
Let's just call it as OpenSSL hyphen server and create a droplet.
Alright.
So till the time this droplet is created, let's quickly look into what are the things that we'll be
implementing as part of today's practical.
Now all the steps that we'll be using in today's video, I have already documented it in our GitHub
repository and we'll be using this as our initial reference.
So before we start with a step one, one of the prerequisites for today's video is that the server that
is created, we need to ensure that we have a queue CTL available and also the queue config file available
so that our server can connect to our Kubernetes cluster.
So let's do one thing first.
Let's quickly connect to the server from my class.
Let's quickly do a ssh route followed by the server IP.
I'll say yes and let's add a password.
Great.
We are connected to this server.
So going back to our GitHub repository, let's quickly look into what we are going to do into this practical
first.
So this prerequisite here is we'll be setting up the cube CTL and we'll also have the Q config file
ready in the server so that our server can connect to the Kubernetes master.
So this is the prerequisite.
Then we'll go ahead and create a set of private key and Kaser will generate the entire process that
we had documented over here all of these four steps, and at a later stage we'll go ahead and run the
cube so it'll get port command with the user, which we have created, and we'll look into the order
verification process as well.
Great.
So first, let's go ahead and configure the Cube CTL for our server.
So I'll copy this set of commands.
I'll paste it.
And great.
So at the end, you should be able to run the Kube CTL command successfully.
The next thing is we also need to set up the cube config file so that our cube CTL can connect to the
Kubernetes server.
Now, why do we want the cube still to connect to the Kubernetes server?
Because we will have to upload this specific Kubernetes object, which had the CSR to the Kubernetes.
And then we'll also have to perform the approval process.
And this is the reason why we have to ensure that the cube config is ready in our server.
So let's first create a new directory of Dot Cube and within.
Let's go ahead and quickly create a new file of config.
And from a Windows laptop in the cube folder, I have the config.
So this config is used to connect to the Kubernetes cluster that we have.
So let's quickly open this config file.
I'll copy the contents and NPC to I'll save the change.
And if you do a cube, it'll get ports.
You should be able to see the ports that are part of your cluster.
Great.
Now, as we are discussing, one of the first steps that will implement is to use the open SSL command
to create a key, and from the key will generate a CSR.
So in this step one, we are basically making use of the open SSL command to generate a key.
And from key we're generating a CSR.
Before we do that, we are also creating a central directory of root certificates and all of the key,
the CSR.
The certificate will be stored in this central directory.
So let's quickly do that.
I'll quickly create a new folder of certificates will go to this folder and from here let's copy the
first open SSL command and then paste it.
In the output, you should see a key, college key and if you do a cat on Z key area, this is how the
key really looks like.
So this is your private key.
The second step is to generate a CSR from the key.
Let's copy this.
Now if you look into the command, the command uses the key, which is the key, and the output is the
CSR.
Along with that, we are also specifying a subject and within the subject there is a common name called
Z.
So this is going to be a user name.
So you can replace the Z with your user name in case if you'd like to once, then you can go ahead and
press enter.
If I do a list, you should see that we have a Z CSR available.
Now one important thing to note is that this specific Kubernetes object that we were discussing in this
step three that will be uploaded to Kubernetes in this Kubernetes object will have to add the contents
of the CSR, as we have already discussing.
Now, if you look into that Kubernetes object, the kind is cert, signing request and your CSR gets
added over here.
So this is where you'll have to add your CSR.
However, you cannot directly add the CSR contents.
So in fact, if I quickly do a guide on Z or CSR, you cannot directly copy paste this content.
So what you have to do, you'll have to do a, B, 64 encode.
So what we are doing, we are going ahead and performing the ENCODE operation over here.
Let's quickly do that.
So this is the output.
Let's copy this till make sure that you do not copy this route over here and temporarily let me add
it in my local laptop for the time being.
And now let's quickly create a new file called a CSR request dot yaml.
I'll clear the screen.
Let's copy the contents and I'll add it to Warrior.
As we're discussing, we'll have to add a here.
So let's go ahead and remove this placeholder and the CSA that we had copied locally.
I'll add it over here once, then you can go ahead and save the change.
And you can also quickly do a cat on CSR request or HTML.
To see the content.
So this is how the request would really look like.
So once you have this available, you can go ahead and upload it to your Kubernetes server so you can
do a cube.
It'll apply on the CSR request or HTML.
All right.
Now, if you'll quickly do a cube, it'll get CSR.
You should see that a z CSR with the age of 4 seconds was created and the condition is pending.
So at this stage you can go ahead and decide if you want to approve or deny it.
And we have to approve it because we want to continue with our practicals.
So in the next step we go ahead and approve the CSR.
So let's copy the command.
So the command is very simple.
It is cube CTL certificate approved followed by the name of certificate, which is the CSR.
Alright, so the certificate is approved.
So if I do a cube, it'll get CSR once more.
You should see it is approved and issued.
Now, as we are discussing, if you want to successfully authenticate with the Kubernetes server, the
Cube CTL command will need both the key as well as the certificate here.
Now, at this stage, the certificate, although it is approved, but we do not really have it within
our workstation.
So the next step is to go ahead and download the certificate from Kubernetes to your workstation.
So this is what we are going to do in step six.
Let's copy this and I'll paste it over here in the output.
If I do a lot over here, you should see the Z Dot City that are available now in this step seven.
What we are doing, we are going ahead and setting up the context associated with a new user called
S Z.
Since at this stage we have a cube config file that is available.
If I do a cube CTL config get context, you will see that we have one user here as master admin.
So in fact, this is coming directly from our cube config file.
So if you'll see over here in our Q config file, that is one user class master admin and this is the
same user that you see over here.
So what this basically means that whenever you run the cube command, it basically makes use of this
master admin user and its associated credentials.
It can be token, it can be certificates, etc. for the oral authentication.
So currently only one user is set up.
We also want to add one more user within the cube config file and the name of the user is all right.
So that is what we are doing.
One of the things that you'll also have to add over here, so again, this is a placeholder is the cluster
information.
So let's copy this up, let's copy it temporarily in my laptop if will again quickly open up the queue
config.
Here's what we need.
We need this cluster information so we'll copy this up and I'll replace it over here.
All right, well, then let's copy this and paste it over here.
Now, if we run the cat on queue config command once more, you will see that you have a z user that
is showing it is also showing us the context, but the important information related to the authentication
we need either certificate, token, etc. That certificate and key is something that is missing from
here.
So that means we have skipped one step which is related to setting the credentials for the user.
Z So for the user Z, we are setting the credentials where we are specifying the certificate, we are
specifying the key.
So I'll copy this.
And let me add it here.
All right.
If you run the gate and you config once more, you will see that your for the username of z, we have
the client certificate as well as the client key.
Now, once this is done, if you do a cube CTL config, get context once for this time you will see
you have one more context associated with the user of Z.
Now do note that whenever we run a command like you CTL get pods.
At this stage we are able to successfully authenticate with the cluster, primarily because our cube
CTL is using this master admin user.
So this asterisk over here, if you see this represents which is the user that is being used for authentication.
So we do not really want this master admin user to be used for authentication.
We want our new user to be used for authentication.
And this is the reason why what we are doing along with Cube CTL Gate Ports, we are also setting up
the context of Z hyphen context.
So basically if you see the name of the context is Z hyphen context.
So this is the context name that we are going to give.
So now if I press enter this thing, we are getting a forbidden error.
This is completely fine.
If you are getting this error, that means you are at the right stage.
Now, the reason why we are getting a forbidden error, this is more to do with the authorization is
because this user Z that we have created, this user does not really have any permission to perform
a list operation on pause in the default namespace.
So what we want to do is we have to add a rule as well as the rule binding to this specific user so
that the user has the permission.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's quickly create a new file rule dot, yaml.
And within this step ten, we are basically doing the same.
We are creating a rule and in this step 11, we are creating a rule binding.
So let's copy the rule contents and within the vorbis list the resources port.
So this will allow the list operation on port resource in the default namespace.
I'll save the change.
Will do a cube.
It'll apply on the rule html along with that will also create a new file for rule binding dot yaml.
Let's copy the contents of a rule binding.
I'll add it to warrior.
Now within this rule binding, one important thing to note is this subject.
And within the subject we are specifying the user and the name of user is Z.
Once, then we'll go ahead and save the change.
We'll do a cube.
It'll apply on the rule binding here.
Once this is done, you should be able to successfully perform the list port operation.
So if I run the command once more, you see, we are able to perform the operations here.
Now note that in case if you want to give additional permission to the user Z, you can go ahead and
do that.
Great.
So I hope that this at a high level overview, you understood the overall step required as part of the
certificate based authentication.
Again, make sure that after you've completed your practicals, go ahead and delete the resources that
we have created like roll rule binding.
And along with that, make sure that you also delete the server to avoid any unexpected cost.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Basics of Kubeconfig ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the Kubeconfig file from the basic perspective.
So we are going to discuss about the importance of this specific file and few more areas related to
this.
So with this, let's get started.
Now one thing that you have to keep a note is that whenever you have a Kubernetes cluster that is running
and you want to connect to it, then you will have to provide some form of authentication.
Now that authentication can happen through client certificates, it can happen through bearer tokens,
maybe through external identity providers, etc..
Now what is the authentication type that a Kubernetes cluster supports?
It depends.
So if you are building a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, you can go ahead and configure it to support
various authentication mechanisms depending upon your requirements.
Now, based on authentication method that is configured primarily as part of the API server component
in the Kubernetes cluster, a client can connect to the cluster using various tools like kubectl, curl,
etc. by providing the credentials that the Kubernetes cluster accepts.
Now, one very important point to note is that whenever you want to connect to a Kubernetes cluster,
you will have to provide the appropriate credentials as well as the IP address that belongs to that
cluster.
For example, in the screenshot you see we are running the kubectl get pods command.
But to which cluster do you want to run this command to.
So that is supplied with the hyphen hyphen server.
And then you provide the IP address of your Kubernetes cluster.
Along with that, as part of the authentication you are also providing your client certificate and the
client key.
So once you provide all of these details, the kubectl will send the request to the Kubernetes cluster
to see the list of ports.
And after authentication completes successfully, you will get the list of ports, as you can see in
the screenshot.
Let me also quickly show you this so that things are more clear.
Now I have a Kubernetes cluster that is running on the server, and by default when I run kubectl get
pods command.
Currently we don't have any kubeconfig file, etc. so you see we are getting an error of connection
refused.
Now what is happening here is that kubectl does not really know where exactly is your cluster running.
That is the first part.
Along with that you see that I have some files that are available for example client certificate, client
key and so on.
So these files are primarily used for authentication to the Kubernetes cluster.
Now the first aspect is the kubectl does not know whether Kubernetes cluster belongs to.
So we'll have to inform that.
So the overall command would look something similar to this where whenever you run the kubectl command
you provide the server.
So this is the IP address of the API server of your Kubernetes cluster.
Then there are a few other things.
For example you are providing client certificate and the client key.
These are used for authentication.
So when I press enter this time you see we are able to see the list of ports in a similar way.
Tomorrow, let's say you want to see a list of secrets.
You can say cube CTL get secrets and you'll be able to see list of secrets.
Now although this works, but the problem here is that for each command, you'll have to specify all
of these recurring details over here.
And this is not too convenient.
So you need a much more easier approach where even without specifying the highlighted part, you should
be able to perform the operations directly using for example, cube, CTL, get secrets, etc..
So this is where the role of cube config file comes into picture.
At an overview cube config file is a YAML file and it stores the information about your cluster, users
namespace and various authentication mechanisms.
So for example, instead of specifying the server details, the certificates and all of the other things
that we used to do in the manual command, you store it as part of the cube config file, and cube CTL
will reference to that kubeconfig file to connect to the Kubernetes cluster.
So this way you don't have to recurrently specify the server details, the client certificates, the
client keys, and so on.
This is a much more easier approach.
And this is one of the reasons why generally whenever you create a managed Kubernetes cluster on any
form of Kubernetes cluster, they provide you option to download the kubeconfig file.
You see it says download the config file.
If I download this file, let's open this.
This is how the file really looks like.
Now in this file you have the URL of the Kubernetes cluster.
So it can be IP address.
It can be the DNS.
In this case it is DNS.
Then you also have the token.
So in the slide number one we were discussing that depending upon the Kubernetes cluster you use, it
can allow authentication based on client certificates based on tokens etc..
Now in the demo that we had earlier, this Kubernetes cluster that I have over here in this server.
This uses the client certificate and the client key.
So if I do a cat on client certificate it looks something similar to this.
This is base64 encoded.
And if I do client key this is how the key looks like.
So depending upon the Kubernetes cluster it can either be client certificates client key it can be tokens
and so on.
So this DigitalOcean managed Kubernetes cluster it makes use of token over here.
Now the main point here is that you can also go ahead and directly run the kubectl and provide the server
details, provide the token, provide the certificate authority data and connect.
So this is what we have been doing in this command also.
But as we know this is something that we don't really want because this makes our life difficult.
And this is where the kubeconfig file proves to be useful.
Now once you have the kubeconfig file that is available, then when you run the kubectl get pods command
Here, you will not have to specify the credentials, the IP address of the API server, etc. everything
is referenced from the kubeconfig file only by the kubectl.
All right, this is one point to note.
Now let's also discuss about the default location for the kubeconfig file.
Now kubectl will look for this file in the default location of home cube.
And the file name should be config.
For example, in windows, if I have a user of Zalora, then inside the Zalora there should be a folder
called as cube, and in the folder there should be a file called as config.
Alright, so this is the location where kubectl.
By default it will look for the config file.
Now for example, why was kubectl able to fetch the list of pods without the credentials.
And we know the answer which is the kube config file.
Now where is the kube config file stored?
As we are discussing it is in the home.
So for example in the home over here.
If we go to the cube folder, there should be the config file over here.
And if you look into the config file you see this specific config file.
It contains the server details, the certificate data, the client certificate and the client key.
All of these are directly added as part of the kubeconfig file.
So we were able to run the commands from kubectl.
Now one more point to note is that the naming of this file is very important.
For example, if we have a different name, for example, instead of config, let's say my config.
Once you have this, when you run, say kubectl get pods, you see it is giving you an error.
So kubectl will look for the config file in the kube folder.
But the name should be config.
All right.
So we have to change the name to config.
And only if this is the location with the file name.
Will everything work?
Now let me also quickly show you in my windows system.
So in C drive if we go to users this is the user name which is Xlb.
Let's open this.
And here you see I have a folder.
Let's open this inside the folder you see I have a file called as config.
So this is very important.
Alright.
So I hope with this you understood the default location.
Now we should also be aware on how we can reference to a custom kubeconfig file which is not in that
location.
For example, if you are using a custom kubeconfig file that is not in this location of home dot kubeconfig.
In such case you can point your kubectl using the hyphen hyphen Kubeconfig flag so that it can reference
to that file.
For example, in the screenshot you see kubectl get pods hyphen.
Hyphen kubeconfig equals to custom hyphen kubeconfig.
So this way kubectl knows that it can fetch the credentials from this custom hyphen Kubeconfig file
and using the credentials, it can perform the necessary level of operations.
So let's do one thing.
This config file that I have over here.
Let me just rename this.
To say config dot back.
And if you remember we had downloaded a new kubeconfig file from a managed DigitalOcean cluster.
Let's add it here.
This is the file.
Let's rename it to say KP labs cat s.
All right.
We'll just remove the extension over here.
All right.
Now let's say that I want kubectl to reference to this specific file over here.
Now this file has a different name.
So now what we can do again it need not be in the kube folder.
Custom file can be anywhere.
It does not really matter.
So what you can do kubectl get nodes at this stage as expected.
Since there is no config file it it is giving an error.
Now what you can do, you can reference to custom kubeconfig file of KP labs hyphen cat.
And using the credentials and the details that are present in this specific file.
You see we were able to connect to the Kubernetes cluster and fetch the information.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the importance of the custom config file also.
Many times what happens is first time when you download a kubeconfig file from managed kubernetes clusters,
etc. in such case this folder of cube will not be created.
So you will have to manually create the cube folder in your home, and then you will have to copy that
file in this specific folder and rename the file to config.
Once you rename the file with config, then you will be able to use it directly as part of cube CTL.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of cube config file and its importance.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Structure of Kubeconfig (Detailed) ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the Kubeconfig file in more detail.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Now at this stage you should already be aware about the basics of Kubeconfig file.
So you can go ahead and create a kubeconfig file which contains various important information like the
IP address or the DNS of the API server, the username, the token, and so on.
So kubectl will use the kubeconfig file to connect to the appropriate Kubernetes cluster, and also
authenticate to it as part of the process.
So this is the basics of kube config file.
Now you can also go ahead and view the contents of your kubeconfig file using the command of kubectl
config view.
Either you can directly open the kubeconfig file in whichever location that you have stored, or you
can directly run the kubectl config view.
It will give you the contents of the kubeconfig file.
Let us explore this.
Now within my windows terminal, when I run kubectl get pods over here, we are getting some output
right.
For example, better output would be cube CTL get nodes.
You will be able to see the list of nodes that are available.
Now.
This means that there is a kubeconfig file that is available that my cube CTL is referencing to over
here.
Now one of the quick ways, if you want to see the contents of the kubeconfig file is by using kubectl
config view.
So this will give you the high level contents that are part of the kubeconfig file.
Now some things will be redacted over here.
For example the token.
So the token is something like the password.
So in the kubectl config view it will not give you the entire token.
This will be redacted.
And also some other information like the certificate authority data.
This is also omitted.
So if you would like to see this you can go to your cube folder and you can manually open the config
file to see all of the contents.
For example, in my cube folder in the home directory, I have the config file.
If I quickly open this with, say, VS code.
Here you will be able to see all of the contents, including the token, including the certificate authority
data.
So this is quite big primarily because this is in base64 and it is basically the CA certificate.
So this is also one way if you do not want to see the redacted version.
All right.
So this is one command that you have to keep a note of.
Now next important part that we have to understand is the structure of the kubeconfig file.
For example within here we see that there was a section related to clusters.
There was a section related to context.
There was a section related to users.
So it is important for us to understand at an overview about the structure.
Also now the structure of the Kubeconfig file, primarily it is divided into three major sections.
One is the clusters.
And within the clusters you can provide the details like the server.
So this can contain the IP address of your API server in your Kubernetes cluster as well as the certificate
authority data.
So if you will see Currently we are discussing about this highlighted part of cluster.
So within here the very important part is the server.
So cube CTL to which Kubernetes cluster should it connect to.
So this is where the DNS name and the IP address of this Kubernetes cluster will come.
Then is the certificate authority data of the API server.
So that you can verify whether the API server has the correct signed certificate.
So this is the main certificate authority certificate.
And then you can give a name to the cluster.
It can be any name.
It can be say development cluster, production cluster etc..
So this is the cluster part.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the cluster section then is the users section.
User section is where you can define the user.
So whenever you want to connect to a cluster you have to authenticate.
So with what credentials you are going to authenticate all of those things can be part of users.
Now again note that depending upon the Kubernetes cluster it can support certificate authentication.
It can support the token based approach and so on.
So it differs.
But whatever the cluster supports, irrespective of that, you add the details associated with the users
over here.
So the client certificate data, the client key, all of these will be part of this.
So let us check this.
So currently we are discussing about this highlighted part which is users now in the DigitalOcean.
At this stage they are making use of a token based authentication.
But but any other cluster that you might use for example cube, ADM etc. they primarily use certificate
based authentication, but that does not really matter.
What matters is that the details are part of the users section as part of the kubeconfig file.
This is very important.
So this is the second part.
And third part is the context.
Context.
Basically it tries to glue the cluster to the users.
So here it says that for the cluster of development cluster the user should be dev user and the namespace
should be development over here.
So it tries to map the cluster with the appropriate user.
So it says use this specific cluster on the top and use the credentials that are part of this second
section over here.
And together all of these things are mapped.
This is very important specifically when you have a config file that has multiple set of Kubernetes
clusters, multiple set of users and so on.
So if you will see we are interested in this contexts section.
So what it is trying to do it is mapping the cluster.
Because this cluster highlighted one.
It has this name.
So this part is mapped.
It is mapping the user because in user the name of the user was this.
And same is highlighted over here.
And then this is the name.
This is the name of the context by itself which maps the cluster with the appropriate user.
So tomorrow you want to connect to this cluster.
The Kubeconfig knows that this is the token that it needs to use, because both of these things are
mapped as part of context.
This is very important.
Many times as you are discussing, a single kubeconfig file can have multiple set of users, multiple
set of clusters.
So in such cases this mapping helps.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood these three important sections as part of Kubeconfig file.
Now I have also added the revision table.
So in case after the video you want to revise, I have added the table with the appropriate description.
Now we were discussing that a single kubeconfig file can have details of multiple Kubernetes clusters
and multiple set of users as well.
And similar to that, there can be multiple contexts.
So here you see on the left you have a cluster.
There are three clusters development, staging and production.
And there are three users also zeal dev zeal stage zeal arrow prod.
So context, whatever context that you create, it will map the appropriate cluster to the appropriate
user.
This is the importance of context.
So tomorrow let's say you want to connect to staging cluster.
You use the context of admin stage if you want to connect to the development cluster, you use the context
of admin, hyphen, dev and so on.
Now let us also look into how exactly this would really look like.
Now in this screenshot you see when I run kubectl config get context you are seeing two different clusters.
One is the development cluster and second is the production cluster.
The name of the context is development and production.
And as we have discussed earlier, context is like a saved profile that tells kubectl which cluster
to talk to, which user credentials to use, and which namespace to work in by default.
So using the kubectl config get context command over here, you will be able to list all of the contexts
that are available as part of the Kubeconfig file, and then you can switch the context also.
For example, let's clear the screen when I run command kubectl config get context.
You see, currently I only have one context that is available, so I'll only be able to connect to one
Kubernetes cluster.
However, in case if a single kube config file has multiple set of Kubernetes clusters, in such case
you can switch between multiple set of contexts as well.
Let's also have a demo so that we have a better clarity.
Now for today's demo I have one more config file that is available.
This is a new config file.
Let's also open this with VSCode.
And this config file you will see we have multiple set of cluster.
This is cluster one.
This is cluster two.
The name is dev cluster and prod cluster.
And then you also have multiple set of users.
This time you see the user are not using the token based authentication.
There is a certificate based authentication.
However there are multiple set of users.
You have a dev admin user as you can see and you have the prod admin user.
Dev admin user can use this set of highlighted credentials.
Prod admin user can use this set of highlighted credentials for connecting to the cluster.
Now, how do we know that the prod admin user's credentials belongs to which cluster?
So in this case the context comes into picture.
So we were discussing that there are two contexts over here.
As you can see this is the first context.
This is the second context.
In the first context the name is development.
And you see it is mapping the dev cluster, which is this specific one to the dev admin user which is
this specific one.
So it is stating that if you want to connect to the dev cluster, you have to use the credentials associated
with dev admin user.
And then there is one more context which says that if you want to connect to the prod cluster.
So this is the prod cluster with this specific IP address.
Then you have to use the credentials associated with prod admin user which is this highlighted one.
All right.
So this is a classic scenario of a Multi-cluster based configuration in Kubeconfig.
Now since we have a new Kubeconfig file that is available if I run the kubectl config get context command
over here.
You see, this time we are getting two different context name.
One is the development, second is the production and this is the cluster detail dev cluster and the
prod cluster.
And it is also showing you the authentication information.
For example, if you want to connect to dev cluster you have to use dev admin for prod cluster.
It will use prod admin.
Now this part is also very important which is the star.
So star says that currently at this stage it is using this specific cluster.
So it will connect to this specific cluster of production.
However in case if you would like you can also switch to the development cluster.
Now in order to switch to a different context.
For example, if you are in the development context, you see there is a star, but you want to go to
production, then you can use the command of kubectl config, use context command and then provide the
name of the context, in this case production.
So here you see, after running this command this star went from development to production over here.
Let's also try it out.
Let's clear the screen again.
In your case, you might not really have Multi-cluster based setup.
This is primarily a demo video to understand things in more detail.
At this moment.
So let's do one thing.
When I say kubectl get nodes over here, since we are in the production context, it is showing me what
are the nodes available as part of the production cluster.
But if I want to switch to the development cluster I can say kubectl config use context and then I can
provide the context name of development.
So it has switched to development.
Now when I run the kubectl get nodes command.
You see in the development environment I have different set of nodes than what was there in the production
environment.
And now let's clear the screen.
If I run kubectl config get context.
You see this star mark is in the development.
So similar to this you can switch between development and production based on the requirement.
So behind the scenes what it does, it does a very simple thing.
It changes the current context.
So this current context that you see over here, it will replace this when you change.
Let's take an example.
Let's say cube CTL config use context and let's specify production over here.
So now we are in the production context.
Now if you look into the cube config file you see the current context has changed from development to
production.
You can also do it manually.
Also let me also show you so get context.
We are in production now.
If I change this to say development manually let's save this.
If I run this command again you see we are in development.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the two very important commands.
And also we were discussing about the overall structure of cube config file, not only from the perspective
of single cluster user and context, but from the perspective of multiple clusters, users and context.
So this is the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Create Kubeconfig File from Scratch ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier few set of videos, we were discussing about the basics of Kubeconfig file and
also the structure of the file.
So for example, we were discussing about a single cluster, single user and single context based approach,
and also a kubeconfig file which contains multiple set of clusters, multiple set of contexts, and
multiple set of users.
Now, in today's video, we are going to understand on how we can create a kubeconfig file from scratch.
Now, whenever you use a managed Kubernetes cluster or kube adm, the kubeconfig file gets created for
you automatically.
However, at an overview, it is also important for us to understand on how to create this file from
scratch.
And then we are going to explore some commands like get context, use context and so on.
So these are very important commands that will help you in production environments.
So this is the aim for today's practical video.
So with this let's get started.
Now for today's practical we are going to create a kubeconfig file from scratch.
So let's go ahead and follow the command steps that are documented.
Again, I'll be attaching this as part of our GitHub repository for you to reference.
Now, as part of the step number one, what we are doing is we are going ahead and we are creating a
cube config file called as base hyphen config.
And in this cube config file we are setting the cluster information.
For example, what is the IP address of the Kubernetes cluster is what you are giving.
So this is the IP address of the Kubernetes cluster.
And the name of cluster is going to be development.
So this is the base command.
Let's copy this.
Now for today's practical I have a folder of copy cats.
You can use any folder based on your requirement.
It won't matter.
Let's open up the terminal.
Let's clear the screen.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and run the command.
Number one over here.
Let's press enter.
Now, as soon as you do that, you see automatically a new file of base hyphen config got created.
And if you open this let's open this with VSCode.
This is how the file really looks like.
So it has gone ahead and created a basic structure of the kubeconfig file.
Now one important part here that we have created is the cluster.
So this is the IP address associated with the cluster.
And this is the name which is development.
Now the next step over here is to add the user information.
Now when you want to connect to a Kubernetes cluster you will require authentication.
So it can be a token based authentication.
It can be certificate based authentication and so on.
So all of those things you have to add.
So this is what we are going to do in the step number two.
Again all of this are dummy data but it will help you understand the overall structure.
So in this step number two for the base kubeconfig file we are setting the credentials.
The name is going to be the development admin.
And for this we have a username of test user.
And the password is some password.
Let's copy this.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's add it here.
And let me just add a space over here.
There is a space missing.
Anyways I'll fix this by the time the video is released and create a new user has been added.
Now in the base config you see this is the section that got created.
The name of the user is admin and then here you have some password and then you have a user.
Again this is a dummy part, but generally in production environments instead of password you will have
the certificate and the client key.
Let me also show you.
So this is like a production config.
And here you see that for a specific user you have a client certificate data and a client key data.
So you have this instead of this dummy data that we have added.
But the structure is very similar.
Now let's go back now in the step number three we are setting the context.
So if you remember as part of the context we link the cluster to the appropriate user.
So let's go ahead and do that I'll copy this.
Let's add it over here.
And now when you look into the base config you have this highlighted part that is created where you
have a cluster of development.
So this specific cluster is linked with development user which is this specific one.
All right.
So there is a small issue if you would notice this name has to be same.
For example here you have a development user.
But here you have development admin.
So this will create issues.
So you have to make sure that this is the development admin in the context.
Also let me also show you the production based configuration file where in the context over here you
have the cluster name which is the prod cluster.
So you can see this is the prod cluster.
And then you have the user which is prod admin which is this specific one.
So whatever details that are added for this user will be used for the production cluster.
All right.
So this name has to be very important.
And this name has to match the cluster name.
All right.
So this is also an important part.
Anyways this is also something that I'll fix.
Now let's go to the step number four.
What we are going to do.
In step number four, we are going to add details of another Kubernetes cluster.
Now before we do that, when we run command for example kubectl config view and we'll specify the kubeconfig
file which is base config.
You will be able to see the basic details that are part of it.
Now you'll also be able to see the context associated with it.
For example let's clear the screen.
Let's run the command of kubectl config get context.
At this stage you have this specific context.
There is only one available over here.
Now what we are going to do.
We are going to add one more Kubernetes cluster as part of the Kubeconfig file.
So again we have the set cluster.
The name of this is going to be production.
And this is going to be the server IP.
Let's copy this.
I'll add it over here.
Now when you explore the base config This is the development cluster.
This is the production cluster information.
Now the next command for the production cluster.
Because ultimately this is the development admin user.
So this user we cannot use for the production cluster.
Production cluster might have a different username and credentials.
So in the second command we are setting the credentials with the name of production admin.
And this has separate set of username and password.
Let's copy this.
Let's add it over here.
So now in the base config you see you have a production admin over here.
And this has its own set of username and password.
Now the next step is we have to create the appropriate context which links the production cluster to
the user.
So let's also do this.
Now when you look into the base config you have one more context.
So this context was there previously.
Now we have added one more context where we are linking the cluster of production which is this specific
one to the production admin user, which is this specific one.
So now when you run this specific command again let's clear the screen.
When you run this command again, this time you see you have two different contexts.
Dev cluster and production cluster.
Now let's discuss about few more commands.
So we have explored this which shows the contents of the kubeconfig file.
Let us run this again.
So let's clear the screen.
If we run this command again you will be able to see the contents of the kubeconfig file that we have
created.
Then we are discussing about the Getcontext command, which shows you all of the context information.
So if we run this, you will be able to see all of the context information and then the important command
to switch to a appropriate context.
So let's copy this.
So let's say that you want to create few pods and resources in the development Kubernetes cluster.
So you want to switch to the dev cluster over here.
So in such case what you can do you can run the command of use context followed by the name of the context.
So in this case it should be dev cluster.
All right.
Now when you run this command again let's copy and run this command again.
You see this star Mark.
Star mark is towards the dev cluster.
So now whatever kubectl commands that you run these commands will connect to the development cluster
in a very similar way.
Let's say after a week now you want to work with production based cluster.
You can run the same command that we had ran earlier which is this specific one.
However, the name of the cluster this time would be Prod cluster.
Let's clear the screen.
And when you run the get context command again, you see the star mark is at prod cluster level.
Great.
So I hope with this now you better understood the overall structure of the kubeconfig file.
And also we discuss about some of the important commands like the get context, the use context, and
how to create a kubeconfig file from scratch as well.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Kubernetes Volumes ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about volumes in Kubernetes.
Now this is going to be a very important video.
Why?
Because volumes are something that you are going to use quite extensively in the production environments.
And this is the reason why we are going to discuss about this topic in great detail here.
Now again, the video might be a little lengthy, but it is going to help you in a longer term and this
is the reason why it is going to be worth it.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Now, before we discuss about volumes, it is important for us to understand some of the challenges
that organizations used to face before this specific feature was used.
Now, one of the primary challenge is related to state persistence.
Now within year.
One very important point to note here is that whenever a container in the pod crashes or the pod restarts,
the container state is not saved.
So all of the files that you might have created as part of the container, all of the files will be
lost.
So in such cases of crashes or restarts.
The Kubelet restarts the container with a clean state, so it will relaunch the container from the base
image that you might have configured as part of the pod.
Now this can be better understood with this image where you have a pod before restart, and in this
pod you have a container.
And this container has certain files like generated files, user data.
So all of these files that you see in the second row are not part of the image.
So these files were created after the pod was launched.
Now let's say after six months maybe pod crashed or there was a restart that happened.
In such case as we know, Kubelet will go ahead and create a new container from the base image.
So in such case, all of the data that were created after the container was launched but was not part
of the base image, all of these data will be lost.
And sometimes if there are sensitive data, sometimes if there is a important data and container crashes
or pod restarts, all of the data will be lost.
So this is one of the very important challenges that organizations used to face.
In fact, before we proceed further, let me quickly show you so that we understand things in a better
terms.
Now, at this stage, if I quickly do kubectl get pods, there are no pods that are running.
This is good.
Let's go ahead and quickly create a pod.
I'll just call it as BusyBox from the image of BusyBox.
And we are going to run the sleep command for say, 100 seconds.
All right.
Now when I do kubectl get pods, our BusyBox pod is running.
And when I exec into the BusyBox pod.
We have to add a L.
So when I exec into it, let's go to the tmp folder.
Currently there are no files.
Let's just call it as important file dot txt.
All right.
So these are the files that were not part of the base image but were created after the pod was running.
So I'll just do a ctrl D and I'll come out of it.
Now when I do kubectl get pods I'll just use the hyphen w.
Now, since we had sleep command that was configured for 100 seconds, after 100 seconds the command
will complete.
And if the command will complete what Kubernetes will do?
Kubernetes in a default configuration, it will restart.
So the restart will remove the older container.
And a newer container will be created by the Kubelet.
Now let's wait.
So after 100 seconds, you will see a event where one of the older container will be removed and a newer
container will be created.
Let's quickly wait here.
So at this stage you see at 103 seconds, the ready status went from one out of 1 to 0.
Out of one status is completed.
And now you see there is a restart.
And when there is a restart again, our status is one out of one running.
So let's do a control C.
So at this stage when I do kubectl get pods you will see that our BusyBox pod is also running.
But there is one restart that has happened.
Now, as we know what happens during restart, a newer container gets created.
So when you go ahead and connect to the BusyBox pod again and go to the tmp folder where our important
file was created.
So here this time when you do ls, you see the file is lost.
And this is something that you might not want in the production environment.
All right.
So this is one of the primary challenges related to state persistence.
And as we are discussing it is not just for restart.
Even if your container crashes, still your data will be lost.
Now the second primary challenge is related to the shared storage.
So let's assume that you have a multi container pod.
So you have a pod which has multiple set of containers.
Now the issue here is that each container will maintain its own set of file system.
So the files that you create in container one will not be made accessible to container to and vice versa.
However, many a times what happens specifically for the multi container based scenarios, you want
to share the files across the container, or sometimes you might want to share files across the pods
also.
So in such scenarios where you require shared storage, in such cases also the default configuration
does not really work.
Let's also quickly look into it.
Now for this specific demo, I already have one more pod that I have created.
The name of the pod is Multi Container Pod.
Now within here when I do kubectl describe pod multi container.
Pod you will see that for this pod there are two containers in the containers.
First container is referred to as BusyBox container one.
Second container is referred to as BusyBox container two.
Now discussing about the second use case of shared storage, let's connect to one of the first containers.
I'll do an kubectl exec on the multi-container port.
We'll first connect to the first container called as BusyBox container one.
All right.
We are connected.
Now within here we'll go to the tmp folder.
And let's create a file called as container one dot txt.
Now let's assume that the BusyBox container number two also wants to access this specific file.
Or maybe BusyBox container two creates one more file.
And you want a BusyBox container one to access that file.
So let's do a Ctrl D to come out of it.
This time I'll go to the BusyBox container number two.
Now within here if I go to tmp if I do a LHS you see this file is not really available here.
So in a scenario where you have some form of shared file and you want multiple containers in a pod to
access that file, or maybe you want multiple pods to access the same shared file.
In such cases.
Also, the default configuration does not really work well.
So in order to overcome these two primary issues, you have Kubernetes volumes, which proves to be
very important.
So at a high level overview, one of the great benefits of Kubernetes volumes are that they can provide
a way to store the data that persists beyond the lifecycle of the container.
So let's assume that you have a database container.
Now what you can do instead of creating new files as part of the container.
Instead of that, you can create a volume and associate this volume as part of the database container.
And whatever new files that you create, you create it as part of the volume.
And the benefit here can be in case tomorrow if this container or the pod gets deleted.
In such cases the volume can continue to be present.
So this volume can persist beyond the lifecycle of the container.
So this is one of the great benefits that volumes provide.
One more benefit of volumes is related to the shared storage.
As we were discussing that a single volume can be associated with a multiple set of ports.
And this can help in a wide variety of scenarios.
Specifically, you can also associate it with multiple containers as part of a single port.
So a lot of flexibility is available.
So let's also go ahead and discuss about it.
Now again note that this is going to be a demo video.
Aim here is to understand the basic concept of Kubernetes volumes.
Once we understand this, then in the upcoming videos we'll be going ahead and discussing things practically
in more detail.
Alright, so at this stage, just watch and understand.
Now for today's demo I have a pod that is created.
The name of pod is Volume Port.
And from here we can see this pod has in total of two containers.
So when you do kubectl describe pod volume pod.
Let's go a bit up.
You will see this pod has two container.
One is referred to as container, one second is referred to as container two.
Now similar to what we were discussing, this pod has a volume that is associated with it, and this
volume is designed to persist beyond the life cycle of the pod.
This is first part and also the volume is associated with both of the containers inside the pod.
You can have flexibility where you can associate it with multiple pods.
But for today's use case, we are discussing primarily from the perspective of multi container Pod.
So now let's clear the screen.
Let's connect to the pod over here.
So I say cube CTL exec volume pod.
First we are going to connect to container one.
Great.
Now if I do ls hyphen L over here you have a specific folder called as volume hyphen data.
So this is the shared volume that we were discussing.
This points to the actual volume.
So now when you go to volume data and if I do ls, as of now there is no set of files.
Let's create a file called as touch again.
Note this is a demo video.
I'll create a file called as shared file dot txt and I'll come out of the port using Ctrl D.
Now what we are going to do now we are going to connect to the container number two.
Now in the container number two also you see you have the volume data over here.
And if I go to volume data if I do an LS you see you have a shared file dot txt that is available here.
So both of the containers are able to access common set of files.
Second part as we are discussing what happens if the volume gets removed.
So if I say cube ctl delete pod volume pod I'll delete the pod.
However, as we are we're discussing that the volume is separate from the pod.
So even if the pod gets removed, the volume again, depending upon the type of volume, the volume
can persist.
So at this stage the pod is removed.
So if I do kubectl get pods the pod is removed.
Now the volume that we had used is available in this specific folder of my data in the host.
Now from here, if I do a LZ you see the shared file dot txt is still available.
Even if the pod is removed, the file continues to be present and you can use this maybe at a later
stage.
So this is one of the great benefits that volumes provide.
Now one more point that we have to keep a note of is that in Kubernetes there are multiple types of
volumes that are available, and each type has its own set of use cases.
For example, this volume that we were discussing this volume can be of multiple types.
There are so many types like Configmap you have empty dir, you have hostpath, local NFS and various
others that are available.
And whenever you create a volume, you also have to define the type of volume, and based on the type,
you can achieve certain set of use cases.
Now again, at this stage we are keeping it simple and whenever we discuss about a specific type of
volume, we'll be looking into the use case that it solves in more detail there.
Now, I also wanted you to get acquainted with the documentation related to volumes.
Now in Kubernetes you have a dedicated documentation of volumes.
Now within here, if you see why volumes are important and there are two important challenges that volume
solves.
One is the data persistence.
Second is the shared storage.
We discussed both of this from a demo perspective, so I hope you understand the challenges and how
volumes can potentially solve them.
Now discussing about the types of volumes as you are discussing, there are multiple types of volumes
that are available.
The list is quite extensive based on the use case you can use a certain type of volumes.
In today's video, we are not going to look into what use case will require you to use.
What type of volume.
At this stage, we just have to understand that there are two important challenges.
And in order to overcome these challenges, volume can be used.
And again, there are multiple types of volumes that are available.
Now again, note that whenever you create a volume in production environment, you just have to see
whether the volume is removed in the newer version or it is deprecated.
So at this stage, some volumes are removed in the newer version.
And if you go a bit down, let's go a bit up here.
Some volumes are in the removed.
Some volumes are in the deprecated state.
So this is something that you have to keep a note of.
Great.
Now discussing further about volumes, there are two important type of volumes that we should be aware
of.
One is the ephemeral volume, and the second one is the persistent volume, now generally Ephemeral
volume types have a lifetime that are linked to a specific port, but persistent volume exists beyond
the lifetime of any individual port.
So if you will see in the port one over here you have the ephemeral volume.
So from the start of the port till the port termination, this ephemeral volume will continue to be
associated with the port.
However, as soon as the port gets terminated, the ephemeral volume will also be removed.
This is first part.
Then you have the persistent independent of the port.
So even if the port is terminated, the persistent volume can continue to remain, and maybe when a
newer port gets created, you can associate this persistent volume to the port.
Number two.
And all of the data that is part of the persistent volume will be made available to your application
in the port number two.
So this is also something that needs to be noted.
Again, we are going to discuss about ephemeral volumes at a later stage.
From a practical point of view.
This also has a very important use case.
In fact, generally when we discuss about multi container port and when you want the data to be shared
between container one and container two.
So container one might be writing some data and container two might be processing that data.
So during that time when both the container one and container two are running, you need a shared storage.
But after both of these containers have completed that operation, you don't really need that data as
well because the data has been processed successfully.
So in such case where you don't want the data to be present after the pods have been removed, in such
cases the ephemeral volume proves to be important.
So this is like a temporary shared data between the containers that you create as part of the pod.
However, persistent volumes as we know they are beyond the lifetime of an individual pod.
So for long lived data, or for data where you want multiple set of pods to have the shared storage.
The persistent volume proves to be very useful.
Now, just for simplicity, I have also added an image.
This will help you during the revision.
So the problem here as we're discussing is the data loss.
So you have an internal data that got created after container is launched.
Now due to some reason, if a container restarts, Kubelet will create a new container and this internal
data will be lost.
So in order to overcome that, it is recommended that you make use of a persistent volume where all
of the important data, all of the user files are stored in the volume.
So even if the container restarts, it does not really matter.
Why?
Because the data is preserved as part of the persistent volume.
Now, before we conclude this video, I also wanted to emphasize on the two important areas.
One is the volume and second is the volume mounts.
So let's say that you have a volume that is created.
How do you associate this volume to your container.
And that can be done through the volume and volume mounts.
Now generally what will happen is in the pod spec.
Over here you will define the volume.
You will define the name of the volume.
So here you have a volume called as my volume.
So you define the name of the volume and you define the type.
As you know there are multiple types of volumes that are available.
So this is the first part that you define as part of the pod spec.
Then once this volume is defined, where do you want the data of the volume to be made accessible.
So that is done using the volume mount.
So here you are saying that the name is my volume.
So this volume should be made accessible at a mount path of slash data.
Now in fact if you remember even in the demo, instead of the data as a mount path, we had volume hyphen
data that was used as a mount path.
So when you go to this specific folder, you will be connecting to the volume, and you will be able
to store files inside the volume or retrieve the files from the volume.
Now let us take one more example that will make things more clear.
So let's say that you have a pod one.
You have a pod two.
Along with that, you have also created a volume called as logs.
So this is the logs volume.
And you have one more volume called as the data volume.
Now both of them at this stage are independent.
The pod does not have access to the logs volume and the data volume as of now.
So let's say that you want the pod one to access the logs volume, maybe to store some data or maybe
to fetch some data.
So the connectivity needs to be present.
So what you have to do is you have to define the mount path.
So this is achieved using volume mount.
So here the mount path is var logs.
So what it means that inside the pod when you go to var logs like when you do CD slash where slash logs,
the files that you will see will be the files of the volume or the files that you store.
Inside the var logs are the files that will be stored as part of the logs volume here.
So this is what the volume mount does.
Now let's say that for the pod number two, you want the data volume to be made accessible to the application
that is running.
Along with that, you also want the logs volume to be made accessible to the application that is running.
So in such case you have to define the volume mount.
Even for pod two like logs, volume should be made available on what path and data volume should be
made available on what path.
So this volume mounts has to be specified in the pod specification.
So here we are specified that log volume should be made available in var logs.
Data volume should be made available in var data.
So if a application wants to write something in this data volume, the application should write that
in the var data directory.
Similarly, if a application wants to write some logs in the logs volume, the application should write
it in the var logs directory.
Now let's also understand this with a sample code.
So this is a simple pod manifest file that contains the volume and the volume mounts.
So if you see you have a dedicated field of volumes, you define the volume name and you define the
type of volume.
Now again we'll have a separate practical video.
But I wanted to emphasize on these concepts so that we don't have to go through this concept each time
when we discuss about different type of volumes.
So the first important part is the volumes.
You define the name of the volume and the type of volume, and then you have the volume mount.
Now in the volume mount you have the mount path which is my data.
And the name here is data volume.
So what it means that there is a volume called as data volume.
And this data volume will be made accessible inside the pod in the My Data path.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the volumes in Kubernetes.
Again, when we take an example of some of the volume types, then the part of volumes and volume mounts
will make better sense.
But at this stage the theoretical understanding is important so that it helps during the practical stage.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- emptyDir Volume ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the volume type of mtdr.
Now at a high level overview.
The empty volume is primarily used for temporary storage directory as part of the pod.
Now, one of the great benefits where empty volume is used quite extensively is specifically when you
have a Multi-container based pods and the containers wants to read and write on the same set of shared
files.
In such case, you can create an empty volume.
Now let's take an example where this is a pod.
You can consider this to be a multi container port where you have a writer container which will write
certain files, and you have a reader container which will read the files that have been written by
the writer container.
Now, since both of them wants to work on the same set of files, you will need a volume.
And in such case, empty dir volume proves to be important, so you can associate this empty volume
with both of the containers and the writer container can write the data in the empty volume reader container
can read the data from the empty data volume over here.
Now, before we start with the practicals, let's look into some of the key features of mkdir.
First important one is that it is deleted when the port is removed.
So this is a very important pointer to keep a note of.
So in case if you want that volume should not be removed once the ports are deleted, then you can choose
a different type of volumes that are available in Kubernetes.
But in case if you have a use case where this data in the volume is no longer required after pod is
deleted, then empty dir is quite good enough.
So this is the first important part.
Second is that the empty dir volume can also use memory instead of disk for performance, and memory
is way way faster when compared with the disk.
So this is important to note.
And next is a container.
Crashing does not remove a pod from the node.
So this is a point to note.
So the data in an empty volume is safe across the container crashes.
So this is also a point that you have to keep a note of.
Now, as we are discussing, empty volume can work both at a memory level, which is much more faster,
so the data will be stored in your memory or empty.
Deer can also store the data as part of your disk.
This is relatively slower when compared to the memory, but again it depends upon the requirements.
Which one do you need?
So before we start with the practical, let's look into how exactly the final solution will look like.
So this is a simple multi container based port.
You have a BusyBox container one BusyBox container two.
Now as you are discussing, whenever you want to mount a volume in a pod, there are two important areas.
One is the volumes and second is the volume mounts.
Now in the volume, if you see we are defining empty and in the volume mount we are defining the name.
So this name should be same as that of the volume.
And the mount path is where the data of the empty dear will be made available.
In this case it is slash data for both of the containers.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
Then it will make better sense.
Now for today's practical I have a base manifest file that is available.
And this is a simple pod manifest.
In fact this is a multi container pod manifest.
The name is Multi-container pod and in the pod spec in the containers we have defined the first container
information which is BusyBox container.
One image is BusyBox.
And then you have defined one more which is BusyBox container two images BusyBox.
So ultimately when you create this, in total there will be two containers that will be created.
Now our use case is something similar to the diagram where you have two containers and we want certain
shared directory across both of the containers.
And for that we are going to make use of empty volume.
Now you don't really have to remember the code related to the empty.
Everything is as part of the documentation and will be referencing to that now in the primary volumes.
Documentation of Kubernetes.
There are multiple types of volumes, as you can see.
We are more interested in emptier now.
Within here if you see a base empty configuration example is given.
Now within here there are two important areas.
One is the volume and second is the volume mounts.
Now we have already discussed this in the earlier video.
So generally for any type of volume that you will be using, both volume and volume mounts will be important.
So let's go ahead and do that.
One more point.
Volume mounts are inside the container.
So for each container you have to specify volume mounts.
And volume is directly under the pod spec.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
Now we are going to do this manually so that we understand the workflow.
Now in the pod spec over here we are going to specify volume.
And within here let's give a name.
Let's just call it CP labs empty dir.
And in the documentation here you see you can give a name of the volume.
And then for the empty deer, you can also specify certain configuration, but these set of configurations
are optional.
Now this part can change depending upon the volume type that you use.
So just for simplicity I'll just specify empty deer.
All right.
Without any explicit configurations.
So this is first and the very important part.
So at this stage we have told Kubernetes that for our Multi-container pod we are going to make use of
empty volume.
However, just by specifying this will not work for each container.
For each container you have to specify that I want to make use of this empty did volume, so that can
be added as part of volume mounts.
So in volume mounts over here the name should be this same name.
So you are saying that I want to mount this specific volume inside this specific container.
And then you will also have to specify the mount path.
So where exactly do you want the volume to be mounted, so I'll say I want it in shared folder.
All right.
And same configuration for the BusyBox container two as well.
So ultimately inside the container this is going to be the folder where this volume will be made accessible
for the containers.
All right I hope at a high level overview you understood what exactly is happening.
I'll save this.
And from the CLI let's go ahead and create our multi container pod.
Great.
It is created.
Now when you do kubectl get pods over here we have the multi container pod that is up and running.
So you can see it is two out of two which is good.
You can also do kubectl describe pod multi container pod.
And within here first thing that you will be able to see that in the container there are two containers.
One is BusyBox container.
One second is BusyBox container two.
And also in the mounts over here.
You see, in the shared folder you have the CP laps empty that is mounted, and in fact, in the volumes
you can see you have the CP laps empty.
The type is empty dear.
So let's go ahead and test it out.
So let's in fact do kubectl get pods once again.
First we'll quickly connect to one of the pods as part of the Multi-container pod.
The name of the pod would be BusyBox container one.
Let's connect here.
Now if I do a ls hyphen L, you should see that a shared folder is automatically created here.
So if I quickly go to the shared folder.
As of now there are no files.
Let's create a file called as container one, file dot txt and I'll do a ctrl d and we'll come out of
the pod.
Now what we are going to do we are going to connect to the container number two.
And within here also you will see that you have the shared folder that is available.
And if I go to the shared folder, if I do a LZ you see the container one file dot txt is available.
So both of the containers can read and write into this common shared directory, which is the empty
dir volume.
After you have completed the practicals, you can just go ahead and delete the ports so that we can
have a clean slate.
Now one more small thing.
Just for reference, I wanted to show you as you are discussing empty dir can work with a disk.
So disk is something that we saw in case if you would like for certain use cases, even memory can be
useful.
Now in the documentation this example that we saw this is of a disk based example.
Now you also have a memory based example.
So this is a memory related configuration.
So in the empty dir you have the size limit and you have the medium as memory.
So this part is the only thing that will be added for choosing memory instead of a disk.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- hostPath Volume ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the volume type of host path.
Now at a very high level overview the host path volume.
It mounts a file or directory from the host, which is the nodes file system into your pod, and this
is useful in a wide variety of use cases.
Let's take a simple example where you have a pod, and in the pod you have a single container.
Now this pod must be running somewhere, right?
So it would ideally be running on top of the worker node.
Now the worker node on which the pod is running this worker node will also have its own file system.
So using the host path what you can do is you can connect or you can mount the file system associated
with the host inside your pod.
And all of the files that are available as part of your worker node will be available inside the container
as well.
So this is useful in a wide variety of use cases.
First one is where if your container requires access to the worker node specific log files like var
log for analysis.
Now since var log Resides on the host.
Using the host path, you can mount this specific directory into your pod and can perform the required
level of analysis.
Second is if your container requires access to the worker node specific configuration files, so this
is also quite useful.
Third is where container that wants to write persistent data to a specific path in the worker node.
So in this specific worker node there is a directory.
And your pod wants to write all of the persistent information to the directory.
In such case, you can mount a directory from the worker node to your pod and then do the appropriate
level of writing.
So this is the basics of the host path based volume.
Let's go ahead and quickly try it out.
Now within the volumes documentation in Kubernetes, let's quickly look into the host path based volume
type.
So this is the host path based volume type.
And if you look into the basic manifest file this is how it looks like.
You have the volume and you have the volume mounts.
So I have taken the example and I have trimmed it down to the most essential aspects.
Now this part is something that we already know.
The volume mounts is also something that is easy to understand.
The only difference here is the volumes.
Now in the volumes over here, you can specify the name of the volume and the host path.
And this is the path of the worker node that you want to mount in your pod.
For example, in your worker node you have a directory of var log.
And let's say that you want this specific directory to be mounted inside your container, because container
wants to analyze the log files that are part of the worker node.
Then you can specify this path.
So this path is of that of the host.
And then you can specify in the volume mounts on which specific path the files that are part of the
var log should be mounted to.
All right.
So just for simplicity what we are going to do, we are going to set it to root.
So all of the root file system of the host will be mounted to the worker node data inside the pod.
All right.
So this is the basic host path based example.
Let's go ahead and try it out now in the CLI.
I'll quickly do cube CTL create on the host path dot YAML.
Let's clear the screen.
When I do kubectl get pods, you have one pod that is running and when you do kubectl exec on the test
pod.
Now in this specific pod, if you will see this is based on the image of BusyBox.
So this specific pod, if you look into the root file system it has certain directories like bin dev,
Etsy, etc. however it does not have some folders like boot because in boot you have the kernel, you
have the grub, etc..
Now since this is a container, ultimately the kernel and everything is not really required.
So this is one part.
Second part, as we have discussed that the host file system is mounted on the worker node data in the
container.
So if you go to worker node data and this time now when you do a LZ, all of these folders that you
see, these are the folders that belongs to the host.
Now if you see you also have boot, you have the devices, you have the proc, you have root etc..
So for example if you explore the boot within, here you have various important information, you have
grub related configuration, etc. so when you want to analyze some of the files that are running in
the worker node on top of which the pod is created, then the host path proves to be very useful.
Now many times what happens is for example, when I do cube CTL get nodes, generally what happens is
in organizations, if you are running a managed Kubernetes cluster, then the provider will not give
you access to the worker node.
Some providers will give you some providers will not give you.
In such cases, if no direct access is given to the worker node, then you can use the host path to
mount the entire root file system of the worker node inside your pod.
And then maybe if you want to edit something, if you want to read analyze logs, then host path proves
to be very useful in such cases.
Alright, so I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the benefit and the advantages
of the host path based volume mounts.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Persistent Volume and PersistentVolumeClaim ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the persistent volume and persistent volume claim.
Again an important topic from the production environment perspective.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Now at this stage we know that whenever you attach a volume to a pod, this volume can be of different
types.
It can be empty.
It can be Hostpath you have local NFS, you have EBS and various various others.
Now, generally the developers who are creating the pod for their requirements, they might require
a volume.
However, the issue is that each volume type that you see over here will require its own volume specific
configuration.
And this can introduce a complexity.
So let's assume that the developer is creating a new pod.
He's aware about the basics of Kubernetes, but he does not really know about NFS.
He does not really know about Glusterfs and various others.
So why introduce this complexity of NFS specific configuration in the volume as part of the pod manifest
file.
So for example, let's say you are creating a pod.
Now if you are using a NFS volume, then there are various other fields that you might have to specify.
For example, for NFS you will require a server.
You will require a path and various others.
Similarly, tomorrow if you are using a different volume type, again that will require its own specific
configuration.
So in order to lower the overall complexity where developer can just primarily focus on the pod manifest
and creation of the pod, instead of focusing more towards the volume types for the other specifications
that are required, you have a concept of persistent and persistent volume claims.
So let us try and understand the basic role and responsibilities.
So you have a developer.
Now what developer would ideally like is that developer would say that my goal is to create a straightforward
pod manifest file based on certain volumes, so that the data can persist.
I would prefer not to handle the storage, provisioning and its associated configurations, and this
is expected because developer might not really know the difference between a Hostpath, NFS, Gluster,
FS, EBS, etc. he wants a simple volume where the data can persist and that's about it.
In a similar way, you also have a storage administrator.
Now storage administrator is expert in the area of storage.
So the storage administrator can say that I am responsible for provisioning, storage, and managing
its configurations.
Now, in Kubernetes, there are a wide variety of volume types that are available.
So what are the volumes that needs to be used?
What are the specifications related to volumes?
All of them storage administrator can handle and developer can simply reference the storage as part
of the pod spec without dealing with the volume specific information and optimization.
So in order to have a clear role and responsibilities between a storage admin and the developer, you
have the persistent volume and persistent volume claim that helps in such cases.
So at a high level overview.
Persistent volume is a piece of storage in a cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator,
or it can also be dynamically provisioned using the storage classes.
So this dynamically provisioning is something that we'll be discussing at a later stage.
Just note that it is a storage that has been provisioned by maybe a cluster admin or a storage admin.
So every volume that is created can be of different type and different specifications.
Let's take an example where you have a volume one.
This volume one can be based on the EBS type.
Then you have a volume two which is based on NFS.
Volume three might be based on Glusterfs and volume four might be based on different volume type that
is available in Kubernetes.
Now each volume can have its own set of advantages and disadvantages.
For example, EBS generally is quite fast.
However, it is equally expensive when you have a large EBS disk, NFS might have its own advantage,
Glusterfs might have its own advantage and disadvantage.
Now a storage administrator can go ahead and create persistent volume based on different volume types
that might be required as part of the organization.
Now, once these persistent volumes of different types are created, the next approach here is the persistent
volume claim.
So at a high level overview persistent volume claim is a request for storage by a user.
For example, there are so many persistent volumes that are available, which is the persistent volumes
that you might want to use.
So there would be certain set of specifications that the developer might have.
So based on that, the persistent volume claim will be associated with the right persistent volume.
Let's take an example where you have a storage admin.
Now this storage admin will create a pool of persistent volumes.
So these are persistent volumes here Pv1 Pv2 Pv3 PV.
For again each volume can be based on a different volume type.
First can be EBS, second can be NFS, third can be Glusterfs and so on.
So all of this complexity of volume types, etc. is handled by the storage admin.
Now you have the application developers.
Now application developer simply needs to create a logic to use the appropriate persistent volume based
on his requirement.
Now whenever application developer creates the pod manifest for example.
Pod YAML, he can also create a claim.
So this claim over here.
This is the persistent volume claim.
And based on the requirement as part of the claim, the appropriate persistent volume can be associated
with it.
Now in this case, our persistent volume claim is associated with the persistent volume one.
And now what will happen is in the pod YAML, the developer will create, developer will reference to
the claim and it will be associated with it.
So generally whenever a pod gets launched this pod will be associated with the specific persistent volume
in this case PV one.
Now this claim that we were discussing can contain certain information like what is the storage size
and various other configuration based on which a appropriate persistent volume can be associated with
that claim.
For example, let's say a developer requires a very fast storage.
Now he will generally not use Glusterfs or NFS.
So in that persistent volume claim, the appropriate configurations can be added.
So that may be EBS volume can be associated with that persistent volume claim.
And once EBS is associated you can add that claim in the pod manifest and the appropriate persistent
volume will be associated with it.
So the overall workflow would look something similar to this.
You have a physical storage of different types.
It can be EBS, NFS, etc. then the storage administrator can create appropriate set of persistent volumes.
Now this persistent volumes can be claimed using the persistent volume claim.
And then in the application pod manifest you can refer to the appropriate persistent volume claim so
that the piece of physical storage gets associated with the application port.
Now let us also understand this with the workflow.
So this is a great image.
I have referenced it from the AWS blogs.
Now first part over here is the actual persistent volume.
So if you see the PV object specifies the location and the type of actual storage, it can be EBS,
EFS, NFS, etc. this is left up to the storage administrator.
Then the cluster administrator must have created this persistent volume beforehand.
Alright, so based on the storage and its associated specification, the persistent volume must have
been created.
Then you create a PVC over here.
This PVC will be associated with a specific persistent volume.
And then the application developer as part of the pod manifest he can reference to the appropriate PVC
name and the persistent volume will be associated with the pod.
Now let's go ahead and look into it from the demo perspective.
So this entire workflow would make better sense.
So let's go ahead and understand the entire workflow from the demo perspective will have a separate
practical video.
Now at this stage, the first part that we were discussing is the persistent volume.
So it is the responsibility of a storage admin to ensure that the correct set of persistent volumes
are available.
And once the persistent volumes are available, then the users as part of the Kubernetes cluster can
use the appropriate persistent volumes.
So just for simplicity, let's go ahead and create some persistent volume.
Now again, we'll be discussing this practically in the upcoming videos.
At this stage just understand the workflow.
All right.
So let's assume that it is the storage administrator who is creating multiple set of persistent volume
in your Kubernetes environment.
So now when I do kubectl get PV, you see this time there are multiple persistent volumes that are available.
Now just for today's demo we have around two.
But in a larger organizations you can have hundreds of persistent volumes.
This is the first part.
Now in the next part, we were discussing that one storage administrator has created multiple set of
persistent volume, which is the persistent volume that you want to use.
Let's assume that you have decided that I want to use the Pv1.
All right, because each persistent volume will have its own set of configuration.
First, persistent volume might be based on SSD disk, second, persistent volume might be based on
NFS, etc. and they will also have the different sizes.
So let's assume that developer has said that he requires this specific persistent volume that has a
size of three GB around.
So in order for developer to lock into this specific persistent volume, he will have to request it
using the persistent volume claim.
So what is the next step?
The next step is to go ahead and create a persistent volume claim.
Now if you will see at this stage the status of both the persistent volumes were available.
So any user can use it based on the requirement.
Now, once you have created a persistent volume claim, you will see.
In fact, let me just zoom out again so it is much more easier to read.
Once the appropriate persistent volume claim is created, one of the persistent volume you see it is
in the bound state, and it is also showing you the claim name.
So this means that someone has already claimed this specific persistent volume over here for his use.
So it is much more better.
And if anyone else in your Kubernetes cluster wants to have a storage, then there is one specific persistent
volume that is available.
In case if there is more required, then you can contact the storage administrator so that he can provision
additional set of persistent volume for the requirements.
So this is the second step of persistent volume claim.
And the third step is that once you have this claim available now this claim is bounded to a appropriate
persistent volume.
So next part is that in the pod manifest you add a reference to this claim, stating that whatever persistent
volume is associated with the claim.
I want that persistent volume to be mounted in the pod specification.
All right.
So let's just clear the screen.
And now let's go ahead and create a pod.
All right.
Now when I do kubectl get pods we have one pod.
And when you do kubectl describe pod test pod.
Let's look into some of the details here.
Now in the volumes over here you see it is showing my data.
The type is persistent volume claim.
This is the claim name which is manual PVC two GB.
So basically when I do kubectl get PVC.
In fact let's clear the screen and do that.
Here you had the manual PVC two GB.
So this exact claim name you will be adding as part of the pod manifest file.
All right.
You see you have the exact persistent volume claim name over here.
And this is how the appropriate persistent volume that is associated with this persistent volume claim
will be mounted on the pod.
So when we quickly do kubectl get pods and when I do kubectl exec on the test pod, if I do ls on here,
you see you have a additional directory of data.
And this is the data where the actual volume is mounted as part of this pod.
Now let's clear the screen.
In fact, let me also quickly show you the pod manifest so that things becomes much more clear here.
Now in the pod manifest over here, in the volumes over here, we are explicitly specifying the persistent
volume claim.
And in the claim name we are stating that this is the claim that we want to reference.
And this claim, as we know, is associated with the appropriate persistent volume in the cluster.
So this is the volume.
And then you are saying that this specific volume must be mounted on the mount path of data.
Great.
So this is a very high level overview about the persistent volume and the persistent volume claim.
Now, generally in the larger organizations, you will see a much more improved version of this.
For example, we were discussing that persistent volume can either be created manually by the storage
administrator, and he can keep these volumes ready for the developers to claim it.
This is one approach.
You also have a much more better approach of dynamically provisioning the persistent volume.
So in this case, what will happen is the storage administrator will not keep these volumes ready.
As soon as the developer requests for the volumes.
These volumes will be created dynamically based on the requirements.
And that is also a much more better approach.
So you have a lot of flexibility.
But at this stage we are at a step number one, where we discuss about each step manually so that it
makes better sense to us.
However, as we have discussed, there is a lot of flexibility that is available.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of the persistent volume and the persistent volume claim.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Practical - PV and PVC ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video, we had a brief introduction about the persistent volume and the persistent
volume claim.
And we also looked into entire lifecycle on how a storage administrator can create a persistent volume.
Then you can create a persistent volume claim to be associated with a specific persistent volume based
on the requirement.
And then this persistent volume claim can be added as part of your pod spec, so that whenever a pod
gets created, the appropriate persistent volume will be associated with it whether data will be stored.
So in today's video, we are going to go ahead and explore each part practically so that this concept
makes better sense to us.
Now as part of today's practical in the step number one, we are going to create two persistent volume.
Each persistent volume will be based on slightly different configuration.
So if you see you have the kindest persistent volume, the name here is manual PV one GB.
You have a storage class name of manual the capacity which is very important.
In this case it is approximately one GB and there are some specifications and you have a host path which
is this specific one.
Now again persistent volume as we were discussing it can be based on different volume types.
It can be EBS, NFS, Glusterfs, Hostpath, etc. based on the requirement in today's video, we are
keeping it very simple.
We are making use of host path and in the second persistent volume the exact similar configuration.
This time the storage is three GB instead of one GB.
Alright, let's go ahead and quickly do that.
I will copy this now within our CP labs folder let's create a file called as pv1 dot YAML.
I'll add this and I'll save this.
We'll create one more file called as PV two dot YAML.
And let's copy the second persistent volume configuration.
And I'll add it over here.
Now at this stage when you do kubectl get persistent volume you will see no resource found.
This is quite good.
So let's go ahead and quickly create our first persistent volume.
And we'll also create the second persistent volume for our environment.
Once this is done when you do cube CTL get persistent volume.
You will see in total there are two persistent volume.
Let me just zoom out.
So this is the first persistent volume with a capacity of one GB.
You have a second persistent volume with a capacity of three GB.
Great.
So at this stage the first part of persistent volume creation is completed.
Now the second part is we have to request for a specific persistent volume using the persistent volume
claim.
Now among this which is the persistent volume that you want to target, is the question whether you
want one GB based volume or a three GB based volume, etc. is something that you have to decide, and
after you have decided, you can add it as part of the persistent volume claim.
So in the step number two, we are going to create a persistent volume claim.
This time if you see the kindest person.
In fact, let's just copy this.
Let's quickly create a file called as PVC dot YAML and I'll add it over here.
So the kind is persistent volume claim.
This is the name of the persistent volume claim.
Now within here you are requesting a storage of two GB approximately here.
And the storage class name is manual.
So this configuration that you add as part of the PVC spec will help you narrow down the appropriate
persistent volume, because in larger organizations you can have hundreds of persistent volume.
Some might be based on storage class of manual, some might be based on storage class related to a specific
provider like AWS, etc..
So here we are explicitly stating that I require a persistent volume with the size of two GB.
The storage class is manual, so this will narrow down to the appropriate persistent volume with the
storage class of manual.
And then the access mode is read.
Write once if you see the access mode of both of the persistent volume are read.
Write once.
So this part is matching.
This part is matching.
The third part that needs to be matched is the storage.
Now the interesting part is we have requested for the storage of two GB in the PVC, but the persistent
volume that are available is one GB and three GB.
So let's see on how Kubernetes can handle this.
So I'll save this.
Let's go ahead and quickly create our persistent volume claim here.
Now as soon as our persistent volume claim is created.
Now when you do a kubectl get persistent volume, you will see that this persistent volume is in the
status of available.
However, this specific persistent volume of a higher capacity has been claimed by our PVC so many times.
What happens is that in case if you require storage of two GB, but now there are no persistent volumes
that are available.
So now what Kubernetes will do is that Kubernetes will assign a three GB base volume.
Now, when a higher capacity.
Volume is assigned, it is not really going to impact the application.
For application it is good because the size is much more larger.
So this is not going to have a much more production specific impact.
And this is the reason why in case if a higher capacity persistent volume is available, then the one
that is requested by the claim that higher capacity will be given to you.
So this is one important point to note.
Now that we have the claim available and our claim is also bounded to a specific PB, the third part
is that in the pod specification, we have to specify the claim specific information as part of the
volumes.
So going back to our guide in the step number three we are creating a pod.
Now this part is simple to understand.
The most important part is this volume mounts and volumes.
Now in the volumes this time we specify the name of the volume.
We specify that this should be based on the persistent volume claim and this is the claim name which
is manual PVC two GB.
So if you would notice when I do cube CTL get PVC, this is the manual PVC two GB.
So this is what we are referencing over here.
And the volume amount is something that we have already explored earlier as well.
It is very simple.
You specify the name of the volume.
In this case it is mydata same.
And then you specify on what path the appropriate volume will be available.
In this case it is data.
Let's also copy this.
Let's create one more file called as pod hyphen pvc dot YAML.
I'll add this specific configuration.
I'll save this.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and quickly create our pod.
Once the pod is created you can also do a kubectl describe pod test pod.
And you can verify in the volumes over here you can see that you have a name of my data.
The type is persistent volume claim and this is the claim name.
Now in case if you want to see what exactly is the size of the storage, you can look up this specific
name.
So in this case, since I only have one PVC, it is much more easier.
So you can say this is the PVC.
This is the volume.
This is the capacity.
So this is good.
Now what we are going to do.
We are going to quickly connect to this pod.
And now if I do a RLS on the root you see you have a data directory.
And if you go to the data directory this is where you can go ahead and create the files based on the
requirements.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood this entire process of persistent volume, persistent volume claim
and how you can reference it as part of the Pod spec.
Now again, you don't really have to remember the format of all of this.
Everything is as part of the documentation.
So generally, if you will see let's go a bit down.
You have the persistent volume.
This is the persistent volume over here.
You have a capacity.
You have a storage class name, etc..
Then you have a persistent volume claim.
You request for certain capacity like three GB, etc..
And third is you go ahead and create the pod.
So all of the base manifest is available.
So it becomes much more simpler.
All you have to do is you have to remember the workflow.
Now once you are done with the practical, you can also go ahead and you can delete all of the resources.
So you can go ahead and delete the pod, remove the PVC and then remove the PVC.
Let's also do that.
Let's copy this.
I'll just do a Ctrl D to come out of it.
Will first will delete the pod once.
Then the next part is you can go ahead and delete the persistent volume claim.
Once this is done, you can go ahead and delete the persistent volume one and the persistent volume
two.
Great.
So that's a high level workflow practically about the PVC and PVC.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Static vs Dynamic Provisioning of PV ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back in today's video, with respect to the persistent volumes, we are going
to discuss about the two important types of provisioning.
One is the static provisioning of persistent volume.
Second is the dynamic provisioning of persistent volumes.
So at this stage, note that when it comes to persistent volume, the first approach is the static provisioning.
In this case, the persistent volume must be created before you go ahead and create the persistent volume
claim.
So in this approach may be a storage administrator can manually create the persistent volume and keep
it ready.
Now the second approach, which is much more preferred in the production environment is the dynamic
provisioning.
In this case, the persistent volume need not be created by the storage administrator, and the PV will
be created dynamically whenever you create a PVC.
So this is much more, better and more efficient approach that a lot of organizations makes use of.
Let's go ahead and discuss about both of these in more detail.
Now, the first approach of static provisioning is something that we have already seen, in which the
administrator will go ahead and manually create the persistent volumes ahead of time.
So in this case, you have multiple persistent volumes that are created and the status is available.
So a user that wants to make use of the appropriate persistent volume will create the persistent volume
claim that can match the appropriate persistent volume, and the volumes will be assigned accordingly.
In case if there are no matching persistent volume exists, then the PVC will remain in the unbound
state.
This is very important part to note.
Let's take an example where you have two persistent volumes of size one GB and three GB.
Now a user has created a persistent volume claim of ten GB.
Now there are no persistent volume to match that.
So in such cases that PVC will remain in the unbound and pending state because there are no persistent
volumes that are available.
This is also one of the disadvantages of static provisioning.
The much more better approach is the dynamic provisioning.
In this case, you do not really have to create a persistent volume at all.
Whenever a persistent volume claim is requested by the user.
Automatically Kubernetes will create the appropriate persistent volume here.
And this is done using one important object called as the storage class.
So if you see there is a persistent volume claim this time, and this persistent volume claim is associated
with a storage class of do block storage.
So this is an example of the dynamic provisioning.
We'll be discussing this in just a moment.
Before we do that, let's quickly discuss about the basics of storage class.
Now at an overview storage class in turn specifies the plugin or the driver that determines how the
persistent volumes are dynamically provisioned.
So ultimately they contain the appropriate provisioner that are used to provision the volume.
So if you see when you do kubectl get storage class, each storage class that you see over here is associated
with a provisioner.
In this case it is associated with the provisioner of DigitalOcean.
So using the storage class the persistent volume using the provisioner can dynamically create the storage
in DigitalOcean environment and that can be associated with the PVC.
Now again, note that generally whenever you have a managed Kubernetes clusters, for example, this
screenshot is based on a Kubernetes managed cluster based on DigitalOcean, and this is the reason why
you will also have the appropriate storage class integration here.
In case if you are using cube, ADM or kin based cluster, you will not really have the storage class
and you will have to manually configure a lot of things there.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and explore the dynamic provisioning so that this topic can be much more clear.
Now for today's demo I am connected to a digital managed Kubernetes cluster.
Note that this is not minikube or any other because the concept of dynamic provisioning needs to be
understood clearly.
So this is the reason why I am using a DigitalOcean managed cluster.
It can be other managed cluster based on other providers as well.
Now at this stage when I do kubectl get storage class, you see there are multiple set of storage classes
that are available.
Each storage class over here is associated with a specific provisioner, and using this provisioner,
your Kubernetes can go ahead and create the persistent volumes for you.
Now, in fact, let me quickly show you.
Now I am in a DigitalOcean environment, and in DigitalOcean you have something called as volume block
storage.
So this is somewhat similar to the EBS volume if you have worked with AWS.
So this will create a volume in DigitalOcean environment for you whenever you create a PVC.
All right.
Now at this stage, if you see I do not have the persistent volumes that are created.
So we are looking into the dynamic provisioning.
Now for today's practical I have a persistent volume claim.
And within here if you see we are requesting for one GB of storage and the storage class name.
This time we have specified do block storage.
And we know that the Do block storage has the provisioner associated with the DigitalOcean com.
Now whenever you go ahead and create a PVC.
Now note that this specific demo will only work if you have a managed Kubernetes cluster based on DigitalOcean.
So whenever you go ahead and create a persistent volume claim.
Note that we have created a persistent volume claim and not a persistent volume.
Now when you do a kubectl get PV automatically, you see a new PV has been created and the capacity
is around one GB.
And it also shows you the storage class.
Now in DigitalOcean, if I refresh this, you would see that there is one more volume that has been
created in DigitalOcean.
You see, this is the volume that automatically got created for you.
And this in turn is bound to the PVC.
As we see, the status is bound and this is the claim associated with it.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood about the dynamic provisioning and how
by making use of the storage class, it can provision the actual volume in the cloud provider like DigitalOcean,
AWS, etc. again, everyone will have their own set of storage class with its own set of provisioners.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now, just for simplicity, I have added one of the diagrams from the AWS documentation.
This is a good workflow diagram.
Now generally if you look into the workflow, the first important step specifically for the dynamic
provisioning is that the storage administrator or cluster administrator will set up the appropriate
PV provisioner and configure the set of storage classes for you.
So this storage class can be created manually by the cluster administrator and using the provisioner
associated with the storage class, the actual storage can be created.
And then all the developer will have to do is he'll have to create the PVC based on his requirement.
And this PVC will go ahead and create the appropriate PV.
And then you bound that PV to the appropriate pod.
Now generally whenever you're using a managed Kubernetes cluster by a provider like a DigitalOcean managed
Kubernetes cluster, the storage class does not have to be created manually by the administrator.
It will come by default.
So all of the storage class that we were discussing, they come as a default in the cluster.
So you don't really have to worry about that.
So this is the very high level overview about the static versus dynamic provisioning.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Dynamic Provisioning using Local Path Provisioner ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the dynamic provisioning using the local path provisioner.
Now many times what happens is that let's say that you have a Kubernetes environment where some storage
classes are not really present.
So you cannot practice the dynamic provisioning of persistent volumes.
So in such cases, if you want to practice on this topic, the learnings that we are going to gain in
today's video is going to be quite useful.
So at a high level overview, using the local path provisioner that is offered by rancher, it is basically
a lightweight and simple dynamic storage provisioner that you can use.
So whenever you configure this specific provisioner, it will automatically create a storage class for
you called as Local Path.
And when you create a persistent volume claim by referencing to the appropriate storage class, a persistent
volume can be created for you dynamically.
So let's go ahead and try it out practically so that we understand it in a better terms.
Now, before we start with the practical, let me also quickly show you the repository associated with
the local path provisioner that we are going to try it out.
So you can look into the overview and there are multiple Steps that they have mentioned.
So these are quite good enough step.
If you want to practice what we are going to do, we are going to follow the steps that I have added
as part of the setup guide.
So it becomes much more easier for everyone to use the same commands.
Now, the first approach that we are going to use is to deploy the local path provisioner.
Now you can go ahead and deploy it in any environment.
It can be kubeadm, it can be others.
Currently what I am going to do, I am going to deploy it in a managed Kubernetes cluster by DigitalOcean.
I just wanted to show you a few things.
That's the reason why I'm using that.
Now before we do that, I just wanted to also show you that since this is a managed Kubernetes cluster,
it already has certain storage classes, and when I create a persistent volume claim, it will dynamically
provision the volume in DigitalOcean.
All right.
So this is the reason why you have the storage classes available specifically related with the provisioner
of DigitalOcean.
So let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and deploy the local path provisioner.
Great.
Once you have done that, when you do a cube CTL get storage class.
You see, apart from the storage class that I had earlier this time I have one more additional storage
class that got created.
Now again, in case if you are trying it out in say cube ADM based environment, then all of these storage
classes will not be available.
You will only have this specific storage class.
All right.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share is that generally when you create a persistent volume claim
or let's do one thing, let's explore that at the end.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
So at this stage we have verified that the storage class is created.
Next part is we are going to create a persistent volume claim.
So let's go ahead and quickly do that.
Now within our folder here let's open the Visual Studio Code.
Let's quickly create a new file.
I'll copy the persistent volume claim and I'll add it over here.
Again a very simple PVC.
We are requesting for the storage of 128MB.
And this is the most important.
The storage class name is local hyphen path.
Now generally it can happen that there are multiple storage classes that are available as part of your
cluster.
So this is the reason why specifying the storage class proves to be very important.
So since you have specified local path, this is the storage class and associated with it, the appropriate
provisioner will be used.
Once I've done that, let's save this.
Let's quickly open up the terminal and we'll go ahead and we'll create the PVC.
All right.
Now at this stage when you do a cube CTL, get PVC, the status is pending.
And when you do a cube CTL get PVC.
At this stage the PV has not been dynamically provisioned.
We'll be discussing about this in just a moment.
Now when you do cube CTL get storage class, you will see that some storage class has the volume binding
mode of immediate.
Some storage class like local path, has a volume binding mode of wait for first consumer.
So what this will do is that it will wait for the pod manifest to be created.
So once the pod gets scheduled, the PV will automatically get created for you.
So what we are going to do, we are going to quickly create a pod.
So let's quickly create this file.
Then we are going to copy the manifest.
Now again this is a very simple manifest.
And the most important part is this.
So in the volumes you are specify the persistent volume claim.
And the claim name is local path PVC which is the name of this PVC.
So as soon as the pod gets scheduled, the PVC will automatically be provisioned for you.
So let's go ahead and look into it.
So at this stage when I do kubectl get PV it says no resource found.
Now as soon as I create a pod.
And now if I do kubectl get PV automatically, you see a PV has been created with a capacity of 128.
And when I do kubectl get pvc this PVC is bounded to this specific PV.
All right.
Now again note that this configuration if you would like you can change.
So you can go ahead and change the volume binding mode based on the requirements.
There is a lot of flexibility that is available.
One more thing that I wanted to share is that this specific logic where a PVC, when it gets created
and a pod gets created automatically, a persistent volume is also available.
So there must be some logic or some kind of a driver that takes care of it.
And this is the reason why generally when you go ahead and configure a storage class, let me show you
when you do a kubectl get namespace, you see there is one more namespace that has been created called
as local path storage.
And when you look into the namespace and its associated pod, you see you also have a dedicated pod
of the local path provisioner.
And this contains the necessary logic required by the appropriate storage class and its provisioner.
Alright, so I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood on how you can test a dynamic
storage provisioner using the local path provisioner that is offered by rancher.
Now again, if you would like, you can go ahead and delete the entire setup by first deleting the pod,
deleting the PVC and the PVC accordingly.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Storage Class ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the storage class.
Now at a high level overview of storage class, it specifies the appropriate plugin or a driver that
determines how the persistent volumes are dynamically provisioned.
Now here one point to note is that in Kubernetes, there are multiple ways in which you can provision
a persistent volume.
First is you can go through a static based approach where you provision the persistent volume manually.
Second is the dynamic based approach.
And this is where the storage class comes into picture.
Now generally in production based environments the dynamic provision of the persistent volumes are used
extensively.
And this is the reason why our understanding about the storage class proves to be very important.
Now, one of the very important components of the storage class is the appropriate provisioners, and
this in turn are used to provision the volumes.
Now, if you look into the screenshot, when we do a kubectl get storage class in a managed Kubernetes
cluster.
There are multiple storage classes available.
This command was run in a DigitalOcean based managed Kubernetes cluster, and for each storage class
you see, there is a provisioner that is associated with it.
And again, based on the storage class, there are a few different settings that are available, but
the most important part is the provisioner.
And using the provisioner the persistent volumes can dynamically be created.
Let's quickly have a small demo so that this concept is clear.
Before we proceed further to understand about the storage classes in detail.
Now for today's demo, I am connected to a DigitalOcean based managed Kubernetes cluster.
I just wanted to show you a few things.
So when I do a kubectl get storage class, you see there are multiple set of storage classes that are
available.
Now these storage classes that you see, they are created by default by DigitalOcean.
Since this is a managed Kubernetes cluster.
In case if you are using a managed Kubernetes cluster of a different provider, they might have a different
set of storage class and the associated provisioner.
Now, what this provisioner allows you to do, it allows you to dynamically create the persistent volume
in the provider.
So in DigitalOcean you have volumes similar to how you might have it in Azure or AWS.
In AWS also you have EBS volumes, etc..
So currently you see, let me in fact refresh this.
Currently there are no volumes that are available.
Now, whenever you create a persistent volume claim using the appropriate storage class, the persistent
volume will dynamically be created for you.
Let me also quickly show you.
So for today's demo I have a very simple persistent volume claim.
The storage that is requested is around one GB and we are stating the storage class name as do block
storage.
And this is the same name do block storage.
So let's just quickly create it.
And in fact, before we do that, let me quickly show you at this stage there are no persistent volumes
that are available.
Now note that this is a demo video.
Aim is to understand the concept.
Now, when I go ahead and I create a persistent volume claim, let's do a cube CTL get PVC.
You have a PVC.
Now this PVC status is in bound state and the storage class is do block storage.
Now if you notice when I do cube CTL get persistent volume, you will see that automatically a persistent
volume has been created.
So this is a dynamic based provisioning.
And in the volumes if I refresh the page you see in the DigitalOcean a volume has automatically been
created for you.
So this is one of the great benefits of the storage class and the associated provisioner.
Now that we understand about the storage class at a high level overview from the functionality point
of view, it is important for us to understand the structure of the storage class and how you can create
it.
Now, whenever you are creating a storage class, Each storage class contains the field of provisioner.
So generally when you create a storage class.
So the kinda storage class, one of the very important field here is the provisioner.
And along with that there can be various other field parameters that can be added like the volume binding
mode.
However, the most important part as we're discussing is the provisioner.
Now, when you explore the documentation associated with the storage classes, there is a manifest based
example that has been provided to you.
Now, if you look into the manifest here, the kind is storage class.
The provisioner is this specific one.
And along with that, there are a few other additional configurations that you can add.
For example, reclaim policy volume binding mode again is important.
And the default class again is important.
So what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and explore some of the very important fields
as part of the storage class, apart from the provisioner that we have just discussed.
Now the first important area is the default storage class.
Now, generally when you create a storage class in the annotation, you can add this specific annotation
and you can set it to true.
So this is associated with the default storage class.
Now generally the benefit here is that whenever you create a PVC that does not specify a storage class
name, then the default storage class is used.
And this is quite beneficial.
Otherwise, for each PVC we'll have to explicitly specify the storage class name.
Let me in fact show you.
Now for this PVC that we had used, we had explicitly specified a storage class name as do block storage.
And this is the reason why, when we explore the storage class for the persistent volume claim, this
specific storage class was used.
Now I also have one more storage class of local path that is available.
If I want to make use of local path, then I'll have to change the value associated with the storage
class name to local path, and in such case local path will be used.
Now in case for the PVC, as we have discussed, where you do not explicitly specify the storage class
name, the default storage class, in case it is available, it will be used.
Let's in fact look into it.
So I'll just quickly delete the PVC that we have created.
Whenever you delete the PVC using the appropriate provisioners and the drivers, you will notice that
the volumes will automatically be removed from the appropriate location.
In this case it would be DigitalOcean and as you are seeing, the volumes have been removed.
Now as part of the next demo, I'll just remove the storage class name and I'll save this.
And now when you do kubectl create on the pvc YAML, a PVC has been created.
When I do kubectl get persistent volume automatically.
This time you see a new persistent volume has been created for you.
And if I refresh the volumes over here, you see again a new persistent volume has been created.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Let's go ahead and delete the PVC now just for better understanding what we can do.
Currently I have one storage class that is default.
This is generally created automatically by DigitalOcean.
In case if you have any other storage class, you can also mark it as default for your choice.
Now let's do one thing.
Let me just remove this specific storage class default configuration here.
So I'll say kubectl edit storage class.
Let's just modify this.
And within here as we were discussing that the default storage class related configuration is added
using annotation.
And this is the annotation.
Let me just mark it as false and I'll click on save once.
Then I'll close this.
So this has been edited.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's do a cube CTL get storage class.
And as we see the default is removed.
So now when you go ahead and try to create a PVC.
The PVC has been created when you do cube CTL, get PVC.
You see immediately here.
This time the status is pending and if you would like to see why exactly it is pending, let's look
into this.
It clearly shows, you know, persistent volume available for this claim.
And no storage class is set.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood about the default storage class from a practical point of view.
The next important pointer is related to the volume binding mode.
So if you would see here you have a volume binding mode that is available.
In this case the value is wait for first consumer.
It can also be different value.
Let's look into what exactly this does.
Now generally there are two primary binding modes that are available.
One is immediate.
Second is wait for first consumer.
Now when you have a immediate as soon as the PVC is created, the persistent volumes are automatically
provisioned.
This is the simplest approach, and in fact, the DigitalOcean based demo that we just had, it was
based on the binding mode of immediate.
And this is the reason why whenever we created a PVC automatically, a persistent volume got created
in DigitalOcean.
Second binding mode is wait for first consumer.
In this case, what happens is that even if you have created the PVC, the PVC will not be created immediately.
The PV will be delayed until the pod using the PVC is scheduled.
So this persistent volume will be created at the time of pod scheduling.
Now let me also quickly show you when you do cube CTL get storage classes, you will see that some storage
class has a volume binding mode of immediate, some has a volume binding mode of wait for first consumer.
The only difference?
As we know, whenever we create a PVC that references to the highlighted storage class, a persistent
volume is immediately created.
However, whenever you create a pod that matches the highlighted storage class.
The persistent volume will not be created immediately.
Instead, it will be created when this specific persistent volume claim is referenced as part of the
pod manifest and the pod is getting scheduled.
Let me in fact show you this.
So I'll just delete the PVC that we might have.
Now for the next demo, what we are going to do, we are going to explicitly set the storage class name
as local path in our PVC.
I'll save this now.
Local path.
As we already know, this storage class has a different volume binding mode of wait for first consumer.
Now when you create a PVC.
Let's do a cube CTL get PVC.
This time also the PVC is in the pending state.
Now if you would like to know the reason on why this is in the pending state.
You will notice that it clearly state waiting for our first consumer to be created before the binding.
Now, at this stage when you do cube CTL get persistent volume, the persistent volume has also not
been created.
So now what will happen is whenever you create a pod now in this pod, you are referencing to the persistent
volume claim of local path PVC.
Let's quickly verify if the name is same.
In fact, the name is a little different.
Let's just change the name over here.
Now, whenever this pod gets scheduled, and since this pod has a reference to the persistent volume
claim and Kubernetes sees this reference, Kubernetes will immediately create the appropriate persistent
volume because it knows that the pod requires the persistent volume associated with the claim to be
mounted on a specific path inside the pod.
So when you go ahead and create a pod, and now when you do kubectl get PV, automatically a PV has
been created.
If you see this, PV has been created and it is associated.
It is in the bound status of the CSI, PVC.
In fact, let's also do a cube CTL get PVC.
You will see that this PVC is now in the bound state.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you also understood about one more very important option
related to the volume binding mode in the storage class.
And from the exam perspective, you should know basics on how you can create a storage class with a
defined provisioner.
They might define the provisioner.
You might not have to create it and also associated with the storage class.
You should know about some of the very important fields like volume binding mode, the default storage
class, and so on.
All right.
So this is a very high level overview about the storage class.
When needed we will be discussing about few more other options in great detail.
But today's video was generic one to understand basics of the storage class and the high level important
fields associated with it.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Reclaim Policy for Persistent Volumes ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video specifically related to the persistent volumes, we are going to discuss about the
reclaim policies.
Now at a very high level overview of reclaim policy, it specifies what happens to a persistent volume
and its underlying storage after the associated PVC is deleted.
Let's understand it through a diagram where you have a persistent volume claim.
Let's assume that this has dynamically provisioned a persistent volume and the associated storage.
Now this persistent volume claim is bounded to the persistent volume over here.
Now after a month a user has deleted the persistent volume claim.
Now the question that comes is what happens to this specific persistent volume?
Should it be deleted or in a production environment you might want to retain it.
Specifically, if it is a persistent volume for a pod like database.
So depending upon the type of use case, you have options on what happens to the persistent volume.
And that option can be configured using the reclaim policy.
So at an overview there are two primary reclaim policies that are available.
One is delete.
Second is retain.
Delete is very straightforward, which states that whenever a persistent volume claim is deleted, the
associated persistent volume will also be removed.
This is the simplest one.
Retain is also simple.
What?
It states that whenever a PVC is deleted, the persistent volume is not removed.
It continue to exist.
Alright, so the underlying storage and its data is preserved when you have this specific access mode.
Now when we discuss about the reclaim policy, it can be set specifically whenever you are creating
a persistent volume, or it can also be set at a storage class level.
Now, within your note that when you discuss about the reclaim policy setting at a persistent volume,
this is generally done when you have statically provisioning the persistent volume over here.
So you have a option of persistent volume reclaim policy.
Within here you can have the appropriate reclaim policy.
And then much more appropriate.
Specifically whenever you have a dynamic provisioning.
You can set it at a storage class level, where you have a reclaim policy and you can set to the appropriate
one.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out from the demo perspective.
So this makes better sense to us.
Now for today's demo I have a storage class that is available.
Let me quickly show you again this is a DigitalOcean managed Kubernetes cluster.
So you have some storage classes that are being created by DigitalOcean.
So this will create the volumes and DigitalOcean provider.
And you also have one more storage class that is available now.
Some storage class has a reclaim policy of delete.
Some storage class has a reclaim policy of retain.
So depending upon that, as we know, the persistent volume will either be deleted or it can be reclaimed.
Now generally when you explore the storage classes related documentation, when you create a storage
class, there is a specific field of reclaim policy.
So within here you can set it to delete which is the default.
Or in case if you do not want you can also set it to retain.
Now let's go ahead and explore both of these approaches so that our concept is clear.
So what I'm going to do I am going to use this specific storage class for our demo so that we understand
it in a much more better term.
Now for today's demo, I have a persistent volume claim that is available and it is referencing to the
storage class related to DigitalOcean.
Now, whenever we go ahead and create a persistent volume claim, before we do that, when you do a
kubectl get PV, there are no PVS that are available.
So let's go ahead and quickly create a PVC.
Now as soon as the PVC is created and it is a dynamic based approach, you will see that the associated
persistent volume has also been created.
And in DigitalOcean, if I'll quickly refresh the page, we have the persistent volume that is available.
Now, since this persistent volume, if you see the reclaim policy is delete.
So what this will mean as soon as we delete the PVC.
And when you do a kubectl get PV you see the persistent volume has been removed.
And if I refresh this page, this specific volume in DigitalOcean would also be deleted.
So essentially your data is lost in such cases.
So as part of the second demo, what we are going to do since we have multiple storage classes, there
is one more storage class associated with the same DigitalOcean based provisioner.
And this time here the reclaim policy is retained.
So let's copy the storage class name and I'll just add it over here.
So it uses that storage class.
And when I go ahead and create a PVC this time before we do that let's do a kubectl get PV.
There are no PVS that are available.
Let's go ahead and create the PVC again.
Now once you have done that, when you do kubectl get PV, as we know a new PV has been created.
The reclaim policy this time is retained.
And same thing.
If I refresh the page in DigitalOcean a new PV has been created here.
Now when you go ahead and delete the PVC.
The PVC has been removed.
When you do kubectl get PV this time you see the PV continue to exist.
However, a small difference this time the status of this PV is released.
So in the DigitalOcean environment, if I quickly refresh the page, the PV continue to exist.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the reclaim policy.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share.
In fact, when you look into the documentation associated with the storage class, you have a reclaim
policy within your Azure discussing.
There are two primary reclaim policy.
You have a retain and you have a delete.
Now there used to be one more reclaim policy of recycle that was available.
However, it has been deprecated.
Now one more point here to note is that if no reclaim policy is specified when a storage class object
is created, it will be default to delete.
So this is one point to note.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the reclaim policies.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Access Modes for PVC ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the access mode specifically related to the persistent
volumes.
Now at a very high level overview, access mode defines how a specific persistent volume can be mounted
and accessed by a node and pods as part of your Kubernetes cluster.
Let's take an example where you have two worker nodes that are available, and in each worker node you
have a individual pod.
Now let's assume that there is a persistent volume that has been created.
Now this persistent volume can be mounted on a pod in a worker node one.
It can be mounted in a pod in a worker node two.
Now this is one possibility.
Second possibility is that this persistent volume can only be mounted in a single pod at a time.
So if this volume is mounted in port two, then you cannot mount it in pod one.
So there are multiple different type of approaches that are available.
Each one can be set using the access modes.
Now, in total there are four primary access modes that are available.
You have read, write.
Once you have read only many, you have read, write many and you have read write.
Once bought at a high level overview.
You should know what this means and also on how you can set these access modes.
Now the first one is the read write ones before we explore this.
One point to note is that you can set it as part of the persistent volume claim.
So in the PVC where you are requesting for a persistent volume in the access modes, you can set the
appropriate access mode.
Now as part of this slide, we are exploring the read write ones at an overview.
When you have this access mode, the volume can be mounted by a single node at a time.
Now when we discuss about the single node, it can also include multiple pods as part of the node.
So even if multiple pods are running on the same node, they can use the same PVC and mount the appropriate
persistent volume as part of the pod, and can perform the read and write operations to that specific
volume.
However, when you have pods that are running on a different node, they cannot simultaneously mount
this volume as a read write.
This is one point to note.
We will be discussing about this practically in just a moment.
However, just keep a note about how this allows the volume to be mounted by a single node at a time.
The second one is read only many.
Now in here you see access mode is read only many.
Now in this approach, the volume can be mounted as read only by many nodes simultaneously.
And this is the reason why multiple pods that are running in different worker nodes can mount and read
from this volume concurrently.
However, no pods will be able to write it.
This is the second mode.
The third mode is read write many.
In this approach, the volume can be mounted as read.
Write by many nodes simultaneously, and multiple pods that are running in different worker nodes can
mount these volumes and perform the read as well as write operations concurrently.
Now also note that although we are discussing about all of these access modes, the storage backend
should also support these shared access.
In case if it does not support, then you will not be able to use these modes.
And the fourth mode here is the read write once.
In this approach, the volume can be mounted as read write by a single pod only.
So this is one of the most restrictive mode.
Even if you have multiple ports as part of a single worker node, this volume at a time can be mounted
as read write by a single pod.
So this is the high level overview about the four important access modes.
Let's go ahead and look into it.
From a practical point of view, this will make things much more clear for us.
Now, for today's practical, I am going to use a DigitalOcean based managed Kubernetes cluster for
the demonstration.
This is important as it will give us a better clarity.
So when I do a kubectl get storage class over here, you see I have multiple storage classes by DigitalOcean
and this in turn will create volumes in DigitalOcean provider.
We are going to make use of this specific storage class for today's demo.
In case if you do not have the DigitalOcean based environment, that is fine.
You can just look into it and things will make better sense after we complete the practical.
Now for today's practical, I have a very simple, persistent volume claim that is going to use a storage
class of block storage, which is this specific storage.
This will dynamically create the persistent volumes for us.
And in here you see the access mode is read write once.
Let's go ahead and create this persistent volume claim.
I'll clear the screen before we do that.
When you do kubectl get PV.
Currently there are no PVS that are available.
This is good.
So let's go ahead and quickly create a persistent volume claim, since this storage class will dynamically
create the PV.
When you do cube CTL get PV, you see a PV has been created.
So in the DigitalOcean environment also, you will see that we have a new PV that is created.
Now, as we were discussing that for the read write ones, this volume can be mounted as read write
by a single node at a time.
This means that even multiple ports as part of the same node, these ports can make use of the persistent
volume simultaneously.
So let's also explore this.
So for today's practical I have a pod one.
Now this part here is simple to understand.
We have a volume mount.
This is also something that we have discussed quite extensively.
Now in the volumes over here we are referencing to a persistent volume claim, and the claim name lets
us verify.
You just have to make sure that the correct claim name is present here.
So this persistent volume associated with this PVC will be mounted in this test pod one.
In a similar way, I have a test pod two where we are going to mount the same PVC over here.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Let's clear the screen.
I'll quickly create our test pod one and I'll create the test part two.
Once both of them are created, let's just verify they are in the container creating stage.
And if we run the command again both of them are currently running.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to the test pod one.
Now within here if I do LSL on root you have a data directory.
So this is the directory where our persistent volume was mounted.
And in this specific data directory let's create a file.
Let's just call it as pod one file dot txt.
All right.
Now in a similar way from a different tab I'll connect to the test pod two.
And even here you'll see that we have the data directory that is available.
Now if you go to the data directory if I do ls you have a pod hyphen one hyphen file dot txt.
And from this pod also if you try pod two To file.
TXT and this is working.
All right so this is the benefit of read write once.
Now we are going to take one more example of read write once pod.
In this approach the volume can be mounted as read write by a single pod only.
So what we are going to do, let's just come out of the pod and we'll just delete both of the pods.
And let's also delete the pod two till the time it gets deleted.
As we know, the only thing that will have to change is the access mode to read write once pod.
Now within here in the access mode I'll say read, write once pod and I'll click on save.
Let's go ahead and also delete the PVC that we have created.
Once this is done, let's go ahead and recreate our persistent volume claim.
Again.
You can just verify in the access mode.
You see you have r w o p.
And again this is an abbreviation.
So if you will see the table I have also added the abbreviation.
So it becomes easier to remember.
So ROP is read right one spot.
Now that we understand what exactly this means let's go ahead.
And this time we'll be creating two pods yet again.
First is going to be the test pod number one.
Let's go ahead and do kubectl get pods.
It is in the container.
Creating this is fine.
Let's run it again in the container creating.
And if I run it again this time it is working.
The pod is running perfectly well.
Now let's go ahead and try to create one more pod, which is the test pod number two.
Now for this pod.
When I do kubectl get pods this time the status is not container.
Creating it is directly going to the pending state.
Now if you want to look into the issue you can say kubectl describe pod test pod two within here.
In fact, let's bring it a little up within here.
You see, it states that zero out of one nodes are available.
One node has a pod using the persistent volume claim with the same name and read write once pod access
mode.
So from here you can clearly identify what exactly is the issue primarily related to the access mode.
Now, before we conclude this video, a few more important pointers that we have to keep a note of.
First one is that not all of the volume types supports all of the access modes.
This is extremely important pointer that we have to keep a note of.
Second is that always check the cloud provider documentation or the associated volume plugin documentation
to see which is the access mode that is supported.
So this is a high level overview about some of the volume plugins.
For example, when we discuss about the host path, it supports only read write once.
It does not support any other like read only many, read write many, read once, pod, etc. however,
if you discuss about NFS, it supports various others like read only many read, write, many read,
write once, etc. so depending upon the volume plugin, you have to identify what is the access mode
that it supports.
Otherwise things will not really work as expected.
Let me also quickly show you.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and in fact delete the ports that we have created.
Now what we are going to do for the PVC that is based on this specific storage class, we are going
to use the access mode that it does not support.
So the access mode that we are going to use is read only memory.
So let's change it to read only many.
I'll save this.
Let's in fact also delete the PVC.
We can also go ahead and delete the port number two so that the reference to the PVC is removed completely.
Great.
Once this is done, just verify whether the PVC has been removed.
Yes, it has been.
Now let's go ahead and quickly create our PVC again, this time with a different access mode.
All right.
Now when you do kubectl get PVC this time you see the PVC status is in pending.
And when you do kubectl describe PVC demo PVC you see in here it will basically give you the exact issue.
Let's in fact bring it a little up here.
You see fail to provision volume with the storage class.
Do block storage.
You have a error invalid argument.
The volume capabilities cannot be satisfied.
Unsupported access mode multi node reader only.
So this is the reason why generally it is important to go ahead and verify what is the specific access
mode that your volume plugin supports.
And based on that you can go ahead and create the appropriate access modes accordingly.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the access modes.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of ConfigMaps ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important topic of config maps.
Now generally in a Kubernetes cluster, one of the common objects that you will see running is a pod.
And generally what runs inside a pod, it is some form of application.
Now when there is an application that is running inside a pod, it needs to store some data.
So where will that data get stored?
In most of the cases, the data gets stored as part of an external database.
So when an application inside a pod wants to store some data to the database, it will also need the
information related to the database like the database user password, the database URL, etc..
Now, for such use cases, one of the common patterns that has been observed is that organizations will
hardcode the database credentials as part of the container image from which the pod got launched.
For example, let's consider you have a app pod.
Now the container image from which the pod was launched will have certain hard coded data like the DB
user, the db password, the db URL, so that once the application inside the port starts to run, it
can use these credentials to connect to the appropriate database, and maybe it can fetch the data,
it can store some data, and so on.
Now this kind of approach is also sometimes seen in many of the organizations.
The problem with this approach is that in case if certain aspects of this hard coded data needs to change,
for example, DB user has been changed or the database password has been changed after one year.
Now the problem is that since it is a hard coded data as part of a container image and you will have
to modify some part of the data, then essentially you will have to recreate a container image based
on a newer hard coded data.
And from the new container image you will have to recreate the pod as well.
And this kind of approach is generally not recommended in production setup.
So in order to overcome this you have a specific feature in Kubernetes called as config maps.
Config maps at a high level.
Overview.
It allows you to store key value pairs in a central manner.
So what you do?
You create a config map in your Kubernetes cluster.
So here you have two sets of config maps.
1st May be for each environment like dev environment, prod environment, etc..
And now what will happen is let's say you have a app pod that is launched in a production environment.
Then it can fetch from a broad based config map.
In a similar way, if you have a app pod that gets launched in a development environment, then it can
fetch the data from a development config map.
Now the benefit here is that there is no hard coding that is required as part of the container image,
nor you have to pass this data as part of the environment in pod manifest file.
Along with that, the next advantage is that this data, if it needs to change, you can directly modify
the config map with the updated Dbpassword and that's about it.
You will fetch the latest details from the pod.
All right.
So this is the basic of config map.
Let's go ahead and look into it from a demo perspective so that our concept is clear.
So currently from the CLI if I quickly do a cube CTL get config map.
You see I have certain config maps that are available.
This is the primary config map that we are looking into which is dev hyphen config.
Now if you explore this specific config map I will say kubectl describe config map of dev hyphen config.
You see this config map has certain data.
Now just to look into it in a better formatting you can just say cube ctl get config map dev config
with the output of YAML.
So this time under the data you see you have certain data like db host Dbpassword db user.
Very similar to the diagram that you are seeing.
So this is the basic of config map.
As we are discussing, it allows you to basically store certain key value pairs that your application
can use.
Now, once you have a central config map that is available, the next important part is related to Pod.
Because Pod also needs to access the config map for a wide variety of use cases.
So for this I also have one pod that is available.
So when I do kubectl get pods, you see I have a test pod that is running.
And now we are going to connect to this pod to see on how config map data is available here.
Now if I quickly do kubectl exec on this test pod over here we are connected.
Now if I quickly go to this directory of etc. config and if I do a lz you have db host, db password
and db user.
So in a new tab.
I'll get the contents of config map again.
And this is what it is.
You have db host, db password and db user is what you are able to see over here.
Now, if you want to fetch the value associated with any of them, you can just do a cat on say db underscore
user and you get the value which is dev admin over here, which is similar to this.
In a similar way, if you want to fetch the value associated with Dbpassword, you can just do a nano
and DB password.
Nano is not available.
We'll just do a cat on db password.
That is fine.
So this part dev pwd 1342 hash question mark which is similar to this.
Now how can you ensure that these are not the hard coded files that are added as part of the pod?
The easiest way is you can modify certain data as part of the config map, and then you can see how
this pod fetches the latest config map data.
Let's also try it out.
So I'll say cube ctl edit config map dev config.
And within here this db user that you see, let's change it to modified user.
Alright, just for simplicity, I'll go ahead and I'll save this.
I'll close it.
So at this stage it says Configmap is edited.
That is fine.
Now when you go ahead and fetch the contents of the configmap again, you see the DB user.
Now it shows as modified user.
So now when you go back to the pod, let's clear the screen.
And when you do a cat on DB underscore user at this stage you see you are still getting the dev admin
which is the previous one.
So generally when you modify a configmap it takes few seconds for the latest data to be made available.
So now when you run this command again you have modified user that is available over here.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basic concept of config maps and the challenges that this specific
feature in Kubernetes tries to solve.
Now before we conclude this video, certain pointers that you have to keep a note of.
First one is that the primary purpose of Configmap is to store non-sensitive configuration data that
application might need.
Why?
Because whatever data that you store as part of Configmap is generally stored in plain text.
And this is not intended for the sensitive information.
Now what we are going to do, we are going to conclude today's video.
The primary aim of this video was to ensure that you understand the basics of Configmap.
And in the upcoming video, we are going to look into the practical workflow.
Now when we discuss about practical workflow, there are two areas here.
The part one will be related to how you can create Configmap, and the part two will be on how you can
configure the port to use the appropriate Configmap and fetch the necessary data.
So both of these are going to be detailed video, because there are multiple approaches for each part
that we discuss over here.
All right.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Practical 1 - ConfigMaps (Creation) ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with config map.
In today's video, the primary focus is going to be on creation on config map through different type
of approaches.
So with this let's get started.
Now to create a basic config map.
The command is very simple.
You can use the kubectl create config map command and supply it with the appropriate file directory
or a specific literal value for the overall creation.
And this is the reason why if you look into the help page, you will see that you have kubectl create
config map.
You have hyphen hyphen from file you have hyphen hyphen from literal, you have hyphen hyphen from env
and so on.
So there are multiple approaches.
But the main command here of kubectl create config map followed by the name of config map remains to
be the same.
So in today's video, we are going to explore some of the common ways that you will generally see,
both from the perspective of exams and the perspective of production environments.
Now the approach number one and one of the very simple approaches over here is that along with this
command of kubectl create config map.
You can pass on this specific option of hyphen hyphen from hyphen literal.
So what exactly goes?
As part of this option, you can specify the key value pair that you want to add as part of the config
map.
For example, you have a key value pair of dbuser equals to db admin.
So you supply it to the first from literal.
And then you have one more key value pair like db host equals to the IP address of the database host.
So this also you supply to the from literal over here.
So this is one of the very simple ways in which you can create a config map.
And generally it is used when the number of key values or the number of data that you want to add as
part of the config map is minimal.
So let's go ahead and also try this out first before we explore other approaches.
So from the terminal if I quickly do a cube CTL get config map.
Currently there is one config map that is available.
This was created as part of the cluster.
However, we are looking into how we can create our own custom config map.
So let's also go ahead and do that.
So the overall command is very simple which is kubectl create config map and you can use hyphen hyphen
help option to see the entire command with certain examples.
For example here in the examples here you see you have kubectl create config map with various options
like from file you have from literal.
At this stage, this is the approach that we are going to implement.
All right so let's do that I'll say kubectl create config map followed by the name.
Let's just call it as first config map.
And then I'll supply from literal and within.
Here you can specify key value.
Let's say key one equals to value one.
And we'll add one more from literal.
And we'll specify key two equals to value two.
All right.
Now when you do a kubectl get config map this is the config map that is created.
And in the data also you see the number is two where this is one and this is two.
Now generally when you do a kubectl describe config map followed by the name of config map, which is
this specific one.
You will see you have key one value one.
Key two.
Value two.
This is one part.
Now again this is not very easy to read and a little confusing also when you read it.
So a better way here would be to do a kubectl get config map the name of config map and with the output
of YAML.
Now you see in the data you have key one value one.
You have key two, value two.
So this is much more easier to read over here.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the approach.
Number one.
The approach number two is specifically related to hyphen.
Hyphen from hyphen file.
Now where is this specific approach useful?
This approach is useful when you have multiple set of key value pairs, or multiple set of data that
is part of a specific file.
Now let's assume that you have 25 to 30 key value pairs as part of a file.
Now, if you use the hyphen hyphen from hyphen literal, how many times you times you will have to specify
this and manually copy paste the key value pair.
So if the amount of data is less then this can be used.
However, if you already have an existing data, then you can use the from file option to create the
config map over here.
Now again the approach is very simple.
Kubectl create config map from file and you can specify the name of the file where the data is present.
Now within our test folder let's go ahead and open this with VS code.
And just for simplicity you can create a file.
Let's just call it as large hyphen file dot txt.
Alright this is a txt file.
Let's say key one equals to value one.
Key two equals to value two.
Key three equals to value three.
Now you can also add different type of data.
We will be discussing that.
But let's keep it simple as of now.
I'll save this.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll do a cube CTL create config map the name of config map.
Let's just call it as second config map Analysis from file equals to large file dot txt.
So once this config map is created you can explore this.
I'll say cube ctl get config map second config map with the output of YAML.
And this time you see you have the large file dot txt.
So this is the file name.
And these are the values over here.
Now one thing specifically for windows you see this part also got added which is r n.
So it basically represents the new line also.
So again if you want to remove it what you can do generally in Visual Studio you have the Crlf.
You can just change it to Lf and you can save this.
All right.
Now just for simplicity you can just delete this config map.
Now again in Mac OS you might not see this.
You can delete this specific config map.
And then you can just recreate the config map.
All right.
Once it is recreated you can run the get command again, and this time you see things are much more
better aligned.
Key one.
Value one.
Key two.
Value two.
Key three.
Value three.
All right.
So this is the approach number two.
Now one thing that you see in this command the name of config map is not really created.
So you also have to specify the name.
So what I'll do after this video I'll just fix the PPT so that we also add a name over here to avoid
the confusion.
So by the time you get the PPT this will be fixed.
Now the approach number three is related to creating a config map based on multiple set of files that
are part of a specific folder.
Now again the main option remains to be the same, which is hyphen.
Hyphen from hyphen file.
This remains to be the same.
However, this time, instead of specifying a single file, you have to specify the path to the entire
folder.
Then, whatever files are present based on these files, the data will be extracted and it will be added
as part of config map.
Let's also try it out.
Now, just for simplicity, what I'm going to do, I'll create a new folder called as Big hyphen folder
and within big folder.
Let's create certain files over here.
Let's say first file dot txt and second file dot txt.
All right.
Now we'll have similar content over here.
I'll just change it to lf Q1Q2Q3.
And for second file I'll say key four.
Key five.
Key six, key four.
Key five key six.
And I'll save this.
All right.
So now let's go ahead and create a config map I'll say kubectl create config map.
Third config map.
We'll use the same from file option.
However this time we'll just specify the path which is the big folder and the config map has been created.
Now when you quickly do a kubectl get config map with third config map output of YAML, now you see
all of the content from the file.
So this is the first file content key one k2 k3 and this is the second file content key for key five.
Key six.
So automatically these contents were extracted and they got added as part of the config map.
Now just for simplicity I have also added a comparison table for the methods that we have discussed,
which is from literal, from file with reference to an individual file, and from file with the reference
to directory.
So this can act as a revision.
Now the next important part that we need to understand is the type of data that you will generally see
in a config map.
Now if you look into this sample config map you have a simple key value pair.
Over here you see key one value one.
Key two.
Value two.
This is the simplest approach.
However, it is not necessary that you have to supply something similar to this.
The data can vary.
So for example if you look into this one.
So this is a multi-line block literal where this can act as a key.
And this part that you see over here it acts as a value.
Similarly this acts as a key.
And this part can act as a value.
So this type is also supported.
Now in fact you will also notice because in this you have a multi-line block literal over here.
So this will act as a key to this specific set of values.
And this will act as a key to this specific set of values.
This is one.
In a similar way, if you explore the first config map that we had created from a literal, this time
the data is very simple.
This is a key.
This is a value, this is a key, this is a value.
So let's also do one thing.
Let's also look into how you can create a config map from a manifest file.
So this way things will become much more easier for us to understand.
So let's close all of these files and let's create a new file called as config map dot YAML.
Now if you have run this command you will get the basic syntax over here.
Let's copy this which is the API version.
Then is the kind, then is the metadata.
We don't want all of this in metadata will keep it very simple.
Where in the metadata we'll just have this name, and in the name we'll just change it to say manifest
config map.
And the last and a very important part, specifically when you are creating a config map, is a field
of data.
Everything goes inside the data.
So the next part that you'll have to add is the data.
Now as we are discussing that a config map can contain different types of data, it can contain multi-line
string kind of a structure.
It can contain a single key value pair kind of a structure and so on.
So first let's add simple key value pair.
So I'll say key one value one.
Then I'll add key two value two.
This is a simplistic approach.
This is something that we already know.
So whenever we use the hyphen hyphen from literal this is the type of data that we generally supply.
Now the next part is related to a multi-line string.
In case if you have.
So you So you have to use a block literal over here.
So let's just call it as big data.
And within here you can just say this is line one.
This is line two.
This is line three.
All right.
So this is again a different way of representing the data.
Let's save this.
Now from the terminal let's go ahead and quickly create a config map.
So I'll say kubectl create hyphen f with config map dot YAML.
So this config map is created.
Now if you quickly do a kubectl get config map, the name of config map was.
Let's verify it was manifest hyphen config map with the output of YAML.
And this time you see this is a simple key value pair.
And then you have this where you have a big data and you have a multi line string kind of a structure
that is available.
So that's an overview.
After completing the practical you can go ahead and delete the config map resources that were created.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical 2 - ConfigMaps (Mounting to Pods) ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Configmap practical.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and look into how you can reference the Configmap as part
of pods.
Now, at this stage, we have already learned on how you can create Configmap based on different kind
of data.
Now the step number two is that whenever a pod gets launched, you need to know on how the application
that is running inside the pod can use the data that is part of a specific configmap.
So this is the main area to learn as part of today's video.
Now in Kubernetes, there are multiple approaches that you can use in which the data from Configmap
can be used by the application inside a pod.
Two of the very common methods that are being used in organizations are through the environment variable
and through the volume mounts.
Generally, when you have a lot of data as part of configmap, volume mounts is one of the common approaches
that is being used.
So let's in fact, we'll go ahead and explore both of these methods.
The approach number one as we are discussing is related to volume mount.
What happens in this case is that the data that is part of a config map is mounted inside a pod as a
volume.
So in such cases, each key value pair that is part of config map appears as a file in the volume.
So in case if you have 40 to 50 key value pairs, then all of them will be added as part of the volume
that you mount inside the pod.
Let's also go ahead and look into it now.
As part of today's video I have a configmap dot YAML that is available.
I'll also be adding this code in our GitHub page for you to reference.
Now the name of config map here is demo config map and it has certain data like db host, db password
and other data.
And you also have a multi-line string kind of a data that is available over here.
So what we are going to do, we are going to first create this config map.
And then we are going to look into how you can use this specific data in the config map inside the pod.
Now I'll clear the screen.
First thing we'll go ahead and create the config map that is available.
And you can also just quickly verify this config map before you reference it inside the pod.
So as expected inside the data the appropriate contents are present over here.
Now the next part is that whenever you create a pod, you have to define a volume mount.
And in this volume mount you have to specify two areas.
First area is where exactly the volume will be mounted.
In this case it is etc. config.
And then you also have to specify that for the volume the config map will be used.
Now I have also added a reference manifest file that allows us to see on what exactly we need to do.
So in your specific container in a pod, you specify volume mounts and you have to add where exactly
the data will be made available inside a container.
So for example config map can have 100 key value pairs where exactly all of these key value pairs will
be made available.
You can specify the path like etc. config over here.
You can also have a different path based on the requirement.
This is one.
Second is the volume.
And in the volume you have to specify the name.
And then you have to specify config map followed by the name of the config map that you want to mount
as part of the volume.
Now again, you don't really need to remember this.
Everything is as part of the documentation, but the basic structure is something that we need to understand.
So for example, in one of the documentation, when you type config map create, I'll also be adding
the link in a GitHub page which is configure a port to use config map.
Now within here there are multiple examples that are available over here.
Let's explore the example that we want to use as part of the first practical.
Here we are referencing to this specific example.
Add config map data to a volume.
So if you see this part is simple to understand, it's a basic part.
Then you specify the volume mount and then you specify the volume in the volume you have to specify
config map.
Now for today's video, I have a very simple port YAML that is available that creates a simple port.
So we are going to go ahead and try it out.
So first we will specify volume mounts.
And then you can give a name.
Let's just call it as config volume.
And then you can also specify the mount path basically where the volume should be mounted.
Just for simplicity I'll specify etc. config.
This is first and the second one is related to volumes.
Now volumes must be assigned with the containers.
So you can just make sure that the alignment is correct.
So in the volumes you can specify the name of volume.
Let's just call it as data volume.
And the next important part in fact if you see in the documentation here you have to specify config
map and then the name of config map.
So I'll specify config map and then name of config map.
Whatever name we had defined which is demo config map will go over here.
And that's about it.
So this is the only thing that you need to understand.
Let's save this.
And let's just name our pod as config map volume pod.
All right I'll save this from the terminal.
I'll say kubectl apply pod dot YAML.
So here we are getting an error.
What is the error spec container zero volume mounts name not found config volume.
So a small improvement over here we have defined a different name.
Since the name of volume.
Here is data volume and we are trying to mount config volume.
So you can just make sure that the name is same and you can save this.
And once you have done that you can go ahead and do an apply.
So the pod is created.
You can do a kubectl get pods.
And at this stage you have one pod that is available.
You also have one more pod.
This was for a different demo.
So let's connect to the pod that we have created.
Let's specify the name of the pod and we'll connect to it.
Now, similar to this diagram that we saw, if you are using volume mount and since we have specified
etc. config.
So this is the directory where each key value pair in config map will appear as a file.
This is very important part to note.
So for example inside the pod if you go to etc. config and within here if you do a ls you see you have
multiple files that are appearing over here.
Now in the config map dot YAML.
This is something that we understand.
This is a key.
This is a value.
This is a key.
This is a value.
However, in this kind of an approach, note that this entire part becomes a key and this entire part
becomes a value.
So when you do a cat on say db underscore host, you will get this value one 7231 1033 306 you can match
it over here.
Similarly, let's also do cat on large data.
And you see this is line one, line two and line three.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the approach.
Number one associated with volume mount.
The approach number two is that you can make certain key value pairs that are part of Configmap expose
as an environment variables inside the container.
So once you have this as environment variable, application can then access the value as part of the
standard environment variable lookup.
So here you can define exactly what are the key value pairs that you want it to be made available as
part of the environment variable inside a specific container.
Now I have also added a reference screenshot associated with it.
Now again it is simple to understand.
So you have a env, the name of env.
And then in the value from you can reference to the configmap key, reference the name and the key.
Similarly, one more env and the same format.
Again, you don't really need to know the format.
You can go ahead and get it from the documentation.
So from the documentation if you go a bit up, Let's also explore this specific part.
So we are looking into this.
Define a container environment variable with data from a single config map.
So within your in the env you have a name and then in the value from config map key reference.
And in this case the name of the config map.
And then you can also specify the key.
So let's also try it out.
Let's create one more file called as pod hyphen env dot YAML.
And we'll copy the contents from here.
We'll add it here and we'll remove this volume mounts section.
Here we are more interested this time from the perspective of environment variables.
So now you can just specify env inside the env.
You can specify name for this.
Let's take an example of this specific part.
All right.
So I'll say mode underscore app.
And then in value from here from where do you need the value.
We need it from config map.
So you have to define this config map key reference here so you can add it inside here.
Now you can specify name.
Let's specify the name and then the key.
Let's specify key of app mode.
I'll save this.
Now from the terminal I'll do a Ctrl D to come out of it.
We'll go ahead and create a pod.
The name is pod hyphen env dot YAML.
This time it looks like we got an error.
So it says pod config map volume pod is invalid.
So we made a small mistake because the name here is similar.
So I'll just call it as config map env pod.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do an apply.
So the pod is created when you do kubectl get pods you have this specific pod that is running.
Let's go ahead and quickly connect to this pod.
And inside this pod when you do echo to see the environment variable.
The name mode underscore app and you're getting the value of production.
So if you will see in the app mode over here the name is production.
Now I have intentionally made this a little different in terms of naming convention, so that we understand
what is the difference between this and this.
So this part is the actual environment variable that will be made available inside the pod.
And the value of this environment variable will be taken from this specific key in the config map of
this.
All right.
Now again as part of today's demo we kept it simple by referencing to only one specific environment
variable.
However, in case if you like, you can also specify other environment variables based on the requirement
on what data you want to make it available as part of the pod.
So that's a high level overview.
As part of today's practical, after you are completed with your lab, you can go ahead and delete the
resources that you have created.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Immutable ConfigMap ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the immutable config maps.
So at a high level overview, a immutable config map is the one that cannot be updated once it is created,
and it is set by adding the field of immutable as true.
So if you look into the manifest file, you have this extra field of immutable as true.
So once you go ahead and create a config map at a later stage, if you have to edit it, for example,
here you have to edit a value or the key.
All of that will be blocked.
So before we start with the practical few points that we have to keep a note of.
First one is that as we are discussing that once this immutable base config map is created, you cannot
modify its data or mark it as mutable again.
So this is the permanent immutability.
Second point is this set of config maps.
You can only delete and recreate it if it is required.
Maybe if you want to change the value then you will have to delete and recreate the config map with
a newer value.
And also in case if you are deleting these set of config maps, the existing ports to which it must
have been associated with.
It is recommended that you also recreate these ports and then reference to the newer config map if available.
So that's a high level overview.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now generally if you explore the config maps documentation there is a specific category related to the
immutable config map.
And this is the basic manifest file example.
The most important part here is immutable as true.
Let's go ahead and try it out now for today's video.
What we are going to do as part of the step one, we are going to create both mutable as well as immutable
config maps so that we can get a clear picture.
First, let's go ahead and create a mutable config map manifest file.
So within our CP labs folder I'll open up the vs code.
We'll create this file.
Let's copy the manifest file and I'll add it over here.
So very simple manifest file.
The name of the config map is mutable config map.
Then there is going to be a file.
When you mount it there will be a file called config map dot properties.
And these are the two values.
Here I'll save this.
Second we are going to create a immutable config map.
Let's create a file first.
I'll copy the manifest.
Let's add it over here.
So the only difference between mutable and immutable at this stage is the name and this specific part,
which makes it immutable.
Once you have both the manifest file available, let's go ahead and create the config map.
First I'll create the mutable config map and then we'll create the immutable config map.
All right.
You can also just verify with kubectl get config map.
Make sure that both the mutable and immutable are available.
Now once the step one is completed in the step two we are going to go ahead and edit the config map.
We'll see on how the mutable config map we are able to edit an immutable config map.
We will not be able to edit.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll say kubectl edit config map.
First is going to be the mutable config map And within here.
Let's go ahead and try to change something.
For example log level.
Let's change it to debug.
I'll save this and I'll close this.
And as expected you see the edit is working perfectly well in a similar way.
If you go ahead and try to edit a immutable config map.
Again the notepad has opened the log level will set it to debug something similar to the mutable config
map.
I'll save this and I'll close.
Now, immediately you see.
In fact, let's bring it to the right.
Here you see it says config map.
Immutable config map is invalid.
And within the notepad here it clearly states that data forbidden field is immutable when immutable
is set.
So you will not be able to edit the immutable config map.
All right so here it says edit cancel.
No valid changes were saved.
So now that we understand about the mutable and the immutable configmaps, we'll take one more scenario
Specifically related to workflow based on deployment.
So let's assume that you have a deployment running where the immutable config map is mounted and the
pod have access to the data.
Now let's say that you want to change the value associated with the immutable config map.
Maybe say after one year.
So what is the workflow that you will be performing in such cases is something that we'll explore in
step number three.
First, let's go ahead and quickly create a file called as app deployment.yaml.
And I'll copy the manifest file and I'll add it over here.
So let's go ahead and quickly explore this.
So if you see the kind is deployment replicas is two and the image is nginx.
So based on nginx there will be two pods that will be created.
And this is the most important part.
So within the volumes over here we have a config map and we have reference to the immutable config map.
So our immutable config map over here the data of this config map will be mounted inside the pod as
part of the deployments in this specific folder of etc. Myapp config map.
Let's go ahead and save this.
We'll clear the screen.
I'll do cube CTL create app deployment.yaml once, then we'll clear the screen.
We'll do kubectl get pods.
At this stage we have two pods that are running.
Once you have deployment created what we are going to do we are going to exec into the pod and we'll
verify whether the config map data is available.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So I'll say cube CTL exec.
We'll copy the pod name.
We'll connect to our bash.
And if you will notice that the mount path is etc. Myapp config.
So if you go to this specific folder, if you do ls you have a config map dot properties.
And if you do cat on config map dot properties, we have app mode production log level info.
And this is something that we have already seen here.
Now the next step is related to workflow of new changes.
So there is a new requirement where you want to modify some data, but you have realized that it is
a immutable config map, so you have no other way rather than deleting the config map.
So let's do that.
So I'll just come out of the pod.
We'll go ahead and will delete the config map.
Then we'll create one more config map.
The name is v2 this time.
So here we'll call it as immutable hyphen v2.
Let's copy the manifest and I'll add it over here.
This time we have made some small changes like the name is immutable config map.
Version two app mode is changed and the log level is changed.
So earlier the log level was info.
This time the log level is debug.
So I'll go ahead and save this.
And we'll go ahead and we'll create immutable V2 config map.
Once you have done that when you do cube CTL get config map, we have the version two of the immutable
config map that is available.
So at this stage the deployment is still referencing to the older config map.
So we want it to reference to the newer config map.
So in such cases, what you will have to do, you will have to edit the deployment.
Now at this stage, if you will notice, the name of the deployment that we had is Myapp.
So if you do kubectl edit deployment my hyphen app.
Now within here let's go a bit down.
You have to look into the volumes.
So this part so immutable config map was the earlier one.
What is the newer one.
It is this immutable config map version two.
So I'll just replace it with this specific one before we make the changes from a newer tab let's just
do kubectl get pods.
We still have pods that are running since three minutes over here.
So I'll do kubectl get pods with hyphen watch.
Now I'll go ahead and save it and I'll close the notepad.
Now as soon as the deployment has been edited you see you have new container that are getting created
and some of the older containers are getting terminated.
So when I do ctrl c When I do kubectl get pods this time you see both of the pods are new.
All right.
And these newer pods are associated with the newer version two Configmap.
So before we conclude let's go ahead and also exec into these set of pods.
And we'll go to etc. my app config where the volume is mounted.
You have the config dot properties.
When you do config dot properties cat you see your version two and the log level is debug.
Great.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood about the immutable config maps and also one of the
workflow related to update process whenever a new config map is available in such cases.
So once you have completed the practical you can just go ahead and delete the setup.
So in fact let's just do that I'll say kubectl delete one would be the mutable config map.
Then it would be the immutable version two config map.
And then it is going to be the app deployment.
Great.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Security Context ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about security context.
Now before we do that, it is important for us to understand the challenge related to security pose,
which will be looking into how this specific feature helps.
So many times it is observed that whatever container that runs on a specific host system, these containers
run with root user privileges.
And this is very common for a wide range of organizations.
Now, although from the functionality point of view this is beneficial, but from the security point
of view it unnecessarily increases the attack surfaces.
For example, in case whenever you have some kind of a container breakout and the container is compromised,
then the attacker may be through.
Vulnerabilities can connect to the host system because ultimately the container is running on top of
host system.
If an attacker through the container manages to connect to the host system and their associated file,
then they can target a wide range of other devices.
Maybe there are other important production level containers that are running in the host system so they
can target them.
They can monitor the network traffic that is flowing between the containers, between client and the
containers and so on.
So one of the areas that makes the container breakout related attacks much more powerful is when the
container is running with the root user privilege.
So let's take a simple example that allows us to demonstrate the basic concept.
So for today's video I have a very simple port call an insecure port that is running.
It is based on BusyBox and you have a sleep command that is running.
Now what you are doing is we are mounting the root volume over here.
So this is the root and we are mounting it inside the container.
So ultimately all of the host files that are part of the host system will be available inside the container.
So let's go ahead and quickly do a kubectl apply on this specific YAML file.
Now once you have done that when you do a kubectl get pods we have a insecure port that is running.
Now let's quickly connect to this insecure pod.
Now, one of the issue that you will see over here is that when I run a ID command, you see the user
that we are logged in inside this specific container is the root user.
Now the problem with this approach is that in the host system.
So basically in here these are all of the directories that are part of the host system that are being
mounted inside the container.
Now this directory also contains a lot of important files like kernel, your Grub configuration etc..
So for example let's say you go to boot.
So within here you have your grub.
Again we are just taking a simple example.
Ideally you should not try and take example of Grub related configuration.
It can mess up the system.
But anyways, the thing that I wanted to show you, if you look into the permissions specifically related
to grub.cfg, you see you have a root and root, so only root user will be able to perform the right
operation on this specific file.
For example, if you go to Grub.cfg and then let's try to modify this file.
Anyways, it is clearly written do not edit this file, but we'll try to modify this file and we'll
save the change.
And you see we were able to successfully do that.
So if I quickly do a cat on grub.cfg you see our changes are getting reflected.
So in such cases if there is a container breakout that happens and the container is using a root level
privilege, then essentially the attacker will be able to connect to the host system.
He can load some malicious kernel modules and monitor the traffic and other activities.
So this is the reason why generally it is recommended that if not required, you should avoid running
the container with the root user privilege.
So in order to overcome these issues, one of the Of the recommendation is to go ahead and run the container
with a non-root privilege.
In such cases, what will happen is even if situations like container breakout happens and the attacker
tries to connect to critical host files, the access will be denied.
So overall, there will be a limited access to the host system in such kind of a scenario.
Now the question that comes is how can you specify what is the user that the container will run through.
And this is where the security context comes into picture.
At a high level overview security context, it defines the privilege and access control settings for
a pod or a container.
Now similar example.
However in the pod spec here you see you have a security context.
You have run as user 1000, run as group 1000.
So this specific container will not run with the root user privilege.
Alright, so as much as possible it is recommended that you use a non privileged user in production
environment.
Now when we discuss about security context, there are three important fields that we should be aware
of.
One is run as user, so you can specify the UID of a container process to run run as group.
Again this is the group ID and you have a FS group which is the group ID for the volume mounted files.
Now let's also go ahead and try it out so that our concept is clear.
Now generally in Google when you type security context Kubernetes you will come across this documentation.
I will also be adding the link in our GitHub page.
Now within here you will see that there is an example of security context of run as user, run as group
and FS group.
So we are going to try it out.
So let's come out of the container.
We'll go ahead and we'll do a kubectl delete pod in secure pod.
So now let's go ahead and create one more file.
Let's just call it as pod hyphen control dot YAML.
And we are going to use the same manifest over here with some set of modifications.
So now what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and add the appropriate security context.
So let's say security context.
And within your similar to the table that we were discussing you have run as user run as group and FS
group.
Same thing you will see over here.
So I'll say run as user, run as group and FS group.
Now I am sure that this concept is still a little confusing, but as soon as we do practical it will
make much more better sense.
So here I will say 1000.
Here I'll say 2000.
And here I'll say 3000.
And within here let's change it to Control Pod.
And I'll save this and we'll not really modify the volumes and volume mount.
We'll keep it similar.
So now from the CLI let's go ahead and quickly create a pod.
So once the pod is created when you do a cube CTL Kubectl get pods.
You have a controlled pod that is currently running.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to this specific controlled pod.
Now once you are connected, when you run the ID command, you see immediately this time you are not
seeing route.
The UID is 1000.
Group ID is 2000 and in groups you have 2003 thousand.
So now when you try to connect to the host path where the route is mounted from the host system, and
let's say you try to modify the boot within your in the grub, you try to modify the grub.cfg.
You will be able to read the file.
But now when you try to modify this file, let's try to modify this file.
You see it is not working.
It is showing permission denied.
And this is something that we want.
So even if accidentally you have given access to the host files to the appropriate pod.
Since pod is running with a non-privileged user, it is one step better in terms of security.
So let's go ahead and come out of this.
Now, the next thing that I wanted to show you is related to the UID, GID and FS group.
So let's do one thing.
Within here we'll go to the tmp directory.
And within here there are some files.
Let's go ahead and create a file called as test dot txt.
Now when you look into the permission of this specific file you have 1000 which is the UID and you have
2000 which is the GID.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood this specific part of run as user and run as group.
Now specifically when it comes to the FS group, let's take one more example related to it.
So what I'm going to do I'll create one more pod called as pod hyphen fs dot YAML.
This time what we are going to do we are going to go ahead and instead of mounting using host path over
here, what we are going to do, we are going to make use of empty dir.
So generally when it comes to FS group, it does not really work well when host path is used.
So this time we'll just remove this specific one and we'll add the empty did over here.
So let's quickly do that.
Let's just quickly align it.
And let's just call it as FS group hyphen pod.
And let's just change the name also so that we do not get an error.
I'll save this.
Now from the CLI we'll go ahead and create one more pod.
Pod hyphen fs dot YAML once.
Then you can quickly do a cube ctl exec on the fs group hyphen pod with sh.
All right.
Here also you can just check the ID and you have 1000 2000 in the group 2003 93,000.
Now this is where the mount path lies.
So here, if you go to host and if I do a LHS, currently nothing is present.
So when you do a touch on test dot txt.
This is a simple file that we are creating.
And here if you do a ls hyphen l.
Notice this time you got a slightly different result.
Specifically when it comes to group.
So here even though you had run as group as 2000, however, for the file that got created, it got
created with the permission related to the FS group.
All right.
So this is the specific reason why we took two examples associated with host path and a different type
in host path.
This will not really work as expected.
You will have to use a different type specifically when you're working with FS groups.
All right.
So again I have also added the appropriate use case in the table so that you can read to get the understanding
of each of this field in case of revision.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Kubernetes Secrets ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about Kubernetes secrets.
Now one of the common issues that you will see in terms of security for many of the organizations is
that the container image from which Pod gets launched, if the application inside that container wants
to connect to some external system, it can be a database, it can be other websites.
Also, you will see that these containers often contain sensitive data that are hardcoded inside it,
like for example, passwords, tokens, etc..
So let's assume that you have a app pod over here, and this app pod wants to connect to a external
database.
Now from what is observed in many of the occasion is that in order for this connection to happen, the
app pod will also need certain important information like the database, user, database, passwords,
etc. and these credentials are generally hardcoded as part of the container image.
So whenever a pod gets launched from a container image, since the details are already there as part
of the image, the application inside the pod can use that to connect to the external system over here.
Now, from this specific diagram itself, you can identify what are the security related issues.
One of the common one is that since hard coding is done, not only you have to protect the port, but
you have to actually protect the Docker file based on which the container image is created.
Then you have to protect the container image by itself because it contains the sensitive information.
And then you have to protect the port by itself.
So this kind of an approach is a big no no from production perspective.
So in such cases where we say that hard coding should be avoided.
What is the alternative that Kubernetes offers.
And this is where the secrets feature comes into picture.
So at a high level overview, Kubernetes Secrets is a feature that allows us to store the sensitive
data.
So it is like a centralized store of all of the sensitive data that you might have and your application
will require.
For example, you have a centralized storage like this.
And within here you can store multiple set of sensitive information like database credentials, tokens,
passwords, etc..
And now whenever an application pod gets launched.
This pod can go ahead and mount these secrets inside it and can access the data accordingly.
Now, in case if you are familiar with the concepts of config map, this is very similar to the config
map in Kubernetes.
The only primary difference here is that this is specifically for storing of sensitive data.
Config map is for the storage of non sensitive information.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and understand this from a demo perspective.
And we'll have a separate practical video where we will be discussing about these things in detail.
Now from the terminal if I do a cube CTL get secret.
You see I have one secret that is currently available.
And when you do a cube CTL describe secret followed by this specific secret name within the data.
Over here you see you have a password which is ten bytes.
You have a username which is five bytes.
So just from the describe command it does not really show you the plaintext data associated with a specific
secret.
So now when you do a cube CTL get secret will specify the name of secret along with the output of YAML.
And now in the data you have this password and you have this username.
So this is one part.
Now next part that we were discussing is that once you have secret stored centrally and application
part, now you are not really hardcoding it.
So you really require that the secret be available inside the application part so that when application
starts, it can use this secret for the overall initialization to take place.
So in one more tab I'll quickly do a cube CTL get pods.
I have one pod running for today's demo.
Let's go ahead and quickly connect to this specific pod over here.
All right.
Now before we explore this in one more tab, if you'll quickly do a cube CTL describe pod followed by
the name of the pod you see in this specific pod, there is a secret volume that is mounted.
And what is the secret name?
The secret name is Secret basic a code which is this specific one.
So this specific secret is mounted inside the pod over here.
Now inside the pod when I go to etc. secret volume over here.
If I do a LRS, you see you have a password, you have a username.
And when I do a cat on username you will get a plaintext data.
In this case the username is admin and same for the password.
You can get it using the cat command.
Now before we conclude few pointers that you have to keep a note of specifically related to secrets.
Now in Kubernetes secrets by default configuration are not very secure.
Why?
Because generally when you create a new secret in Kubernetes in the data store associated with Kubernetes,
for example, in the etcd, these secrets are stored in plain text.
So here the encryption is not really applied by default.
However, at a later stage, in case if you'd like, you can go ahead and apply it.
So this facility is available along with adding the encryption.
You can also additionally protect the access to the secrets using Rbac.
So you don't really want all of the users in your Kubernetes cluster to connect to the secret.
So using Rbac, you can say that only a specific user or only a specific pod can go ahead and connect
to the secret to fetch the appropriate data.
All right.
So for this specific pointer, when we say secrets are not very secure, this is by default.
However, it is not that you cannot change it.
You can change it.
But this is like a default configuration.
Now the next important pointer that you need to keep a note is that whenever you view a secret, for
example, you use a kubectl get secret command.
You get the secret here, which is DB passes a key and this is the value.
So this is not a direct plaintext value.
This in fact is a base64 encoded format.
So in case if you want to view the actual value, you will have to use some external base64 decoder
to decode the secret fully.
Let's also explore this now.
For example, if you would notice when we did a cat on username, we got admin over here and when we
do a cat on password, we got a password called as Top secret.
However, when we ran this specific command over here, username is something like this password is
something like this.
So this is what we were referring to where this value that you get over here it is base64 encoded.
However, when a secret is mounted inside the pod, that is when the decode function will happen and
you will get the plaintext data.
Now let's also look into the decode here.
So you can just copy this just for an example.
And in Google when you type base64 decoder.
Now again note that sensitive data you should not really paste here, since this is a simple demo,
we are using that.
Ideally in Linux or Mac OS you have a base64 decode utility.
You can use that.
So within here you can just decode it.
And you see you got the top secret over here.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of the Kubernetes Secrets functionality.
In the upcoming video, we will be exploring it from the practical point of view.

--- Practical - Kubernetes Secrets ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with Kubernetes Secrets.
So let's get started.
Now when we discuss about the overall practical, there are two important parts.
First part is you have to go ahead and learn on how you can create a Kubernetes secret.
As we know in Kubernetes Secret, you can have multiple set of secrets and each secret can have different
kind of data.
This is the first part and second part.
After the secret is created, you need to understand on how the secret gets mounted as part of the port,
so that the application that is running can fetch the appropriate values.
So first we are going to look into how you can create a basic Kubernetes secret.
Now the overall approach to create a Kubernetes secret is very simple.
You use the kubectl create secret command to create the appropriate secret.
Now along with this you can pass the value.
For example, over here you can pass the value in terms of literal.
For example, key one is equal to super secret, key two is equal to top secret.
So when you have limited amount of data you can directly make use of hyphen hyphen from hyphen literal
and pass on the value.
And in case if you have a larger data, you can also supply using the hyphen hyphen.
From hyphen file, you can supply the file name, and it will automatically fetch the contents from
the file, and the secret will be created.
So let's do one thing.
First.
Let's go ahead and look into the part one post, which we'll look into how you can reference that secret
inside a pod.
Now from the CLI, when you go ahead and do a kubectl get secret.
At this stage, there are no secrets that are available.
This is fine.
So let's go ahead and do a cube CTL create secret hyphen hyphen help.
Now within here you have three different types of secrets that you can create.
One is for Docker Registry, one is a generic type and one is related to TLS.
We are more interested in this generic type over here.
So let's go ahead and say cube CTL create secret.
Then you have to specify the type I'll say generic Hendrick.
And then you can use hyphen.
Hyphen help.
So now if you look into the commands over here these are the reference commands.
So you have a from file you have a from literal also available you have from env file also available.
Let's use a simple approach where I'll say kubectl create secret.
The type of secret is generic.
And I'll say from literal I'll say admin equals to password.
So we got an error.
What is the error exactly.
One name is required.
Got zero.
So let's go ahead and improve upon it.
Let's just call it as auth secret.
This is the name of the secret.
And a secret is created once the secret is created.
When you do a cube CTL get secret command.
This is the auth secret.
And then in case if you do cube CTL describe secret auth secret over here, you'll basically get this
where key is admin and the value is not directly visible over here.
In case, if you like, you can go ahead and do a cube CTL get secret followed by the name of secret
with the output of YAML.
In this case you will have a proper data like this is the admin user and this is the password.
So the password that we had set was just plain text password.
This information that you see over here it is a base 64 encoded value.
So you can use any base 64 decoder tool to go ahead and decode it.
Generally when the secret gets mounted inside the pod, this specific part will automatically get decoded.
All right.
Now along with that, let's just copy this once more.
I'll just add it.
You can also go ahead and look into the manifest file.
So if I say dry run equals to client with the output of YAML, you can look into manifest file to see
how it looks like a very simple.
This is the API version kind secret metadata contains the name of the secret, and inside the data you
have the key value pair.
So in case if you have worked with config maps, this is exactly similar to that.
So now that we know on how you can create secrets in Kubernetes.
Next important part is to go ahead and mount it as part of the pod.
So when it comes to mounting, there are two access methods that are available.
One is using the environment variables.
Second is using the volume mounts.
First let's go ahead and explore the volume mounts.
Now in the volume mount based approach what you do.
You have your basic pod manifest.
Then you specify the volume.
So in the volume you specify what is the secret that you want to be mounted as a volume.
So this specific part is important.
And then once you have specified the volume, then you use the volume mount and specify the appropriate
mount path where the secret contents will be made available to you.
So let's also go ahead and explore this.
Now one thing that needs to be remembered.
Again, you don't really have to memorize all of these things.
Everything is available as part of the documentation.
So in the documentation associated with the pod.
I'll also be adding a link to this.
You will see that you have a volume mount, so in the volume mount, you specify the name of the secret
that is fetched from your.
So first part is volume.
In the volume you specify what is the exact secret that you want it to be mounted inside the pod.
And then using the volume mount, you can say that this secret contents should be available in this
specific mount path.
Now for today's practical, I have a very simple pod YAML file that is available based on the nginx
image.
So here what we are going to do.
The secret that we had created.
We are going to mount that secret so that our application inside the container can access it.
All right.
So let's go ahead and specify it.
So inside the volumes let's specify name as secret volume.
And then you can specify the secret.
And inside the secret you have the secret name.
So let's do that.
You have a secret inside the secret you have secret name.
And the name of the secret.
Let's fetch it from here.
So this was the secret that we had created.
Let's add it here.
So this is the volume.
The next part is that we have to mount this secret inside the container.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll say volume mounts inside here.
The name.
Let's just use the same name over here of the volume.
And the next part.
The important part.
In fact let's just fix this.
The important part is the mount part.
So I'll say mount path.
And where exactly you want the secret to be made available for the application to access.
Let's just call it as etc. secret volume.
All right.
So this is the basic syntax.
Let's go ahead and try it out I'll clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and we'll create the pod.
So here we got a specific error related to unknown field.
So inside spec dot volumes Secret.
Secret.
Name.
So if you will see, this is where the error is coming from.
So this part.
Secret name.
When you reference it from the documentation, the n here is capital.
So you can just make it capital.
I'll save this.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and do a apply again.
So now when you do kubectl get pods you have a demo pod that is running.
Let's go ahead and quickly connect to the demo pod.
And within here in the etc. secret volume.
If I do an ls you have a key that is made available.
If I do a cat on this specific key name, you will get the appropriate value.
In this case it is password.
This is the part number one.
You also have a part number two where a value of a specific secret can be exposed as a environment variable
inside the container.
So this way you will not really have a specific mount point Instead directly, a environment variable
will be made available to you and application can directly access it.
Now again, this is very simple.
In the env you specify what environment variable you want the container to have and the value associated
with environment variable.
So in the value from you say secret key reference the name of the secret and the appropriate key.
Let's also go ahead and try it out.
So for this we are going to reference to one more documentation.
Now this specific documentation page also has some sample examples like how you can create a secret
through a manifest file.
Then you have some examples related to how you can mount a secret using the volume mounts.
This is something that we have explored.
And then it also has an example related to how you can make the secret available using the environment
variable.
I will be adding the link to this doc in our GitHub page for you to reference as well.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So I'll say pod hyphen secret hyphen env dot YAML.
We'll use the same manifest file over here.
We'll remove the volume and the volume mounts.
All right.
So now in the pod spec in the containers you can specify the env.
And within here you can just specify the name of the environment variable.
So let's say I specify db password.
And then we specify value from.
So where exactly the value will be coming from.
This time it will be coming from secret.
So if you look into the documentation so that you do not make a mistake in terms of the exact way to
specify, you'll have to add this secret key.
Ref.
Let's add this.
And inside this you can specify the name of secret.
So what was the name of secret?
It was auth secret.
And the key in our case it was admin.
All right, let's go ahead and save this.
We'll make sure to have a different pod name.
I'll save this.
Let's come out of our previous pod.
Let's go ahead and create a new pod using the newer file.
All right.
Once.
Then let's go ahead and quickly connect to this pod as well.
So the name of pod is this.
Let's add this and I'll connect through bash.
Now within here you will not really have the secret volume.
Instead you will have an environment variable.
So if you run the echo on the environment variable name that you had set, which is Dbpassword, you
will get the appropriate value of password.
So this way application do not really have to go to a specific path.
All they do, they'll fetch the value associated with the environment variable and get the appropriate
value accordingly.
So this is also one more easy way for application to fetch the secrets.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the practical aspect of Kubernetes secrets, along with
how you can make it available to the application inside the container.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Understanding Kubernetes Architecture ---

Everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about a very important topic which is related to the Kubernetes
architecture.
Now this is going to be a detailed video where we are going to discuss about each component of Kubernetes
and its role that it plays.
So this is going to be a very important video as part of your overall Kubernetes journey.
So with this let's get started.
Now before we explore the Kubernetes components in detail, let's take a simple analogy that will give
you a better understanding about the purpose of this video.
So let's assume that you are a new driver and you are learning to drive.
So in the initial lessons, the instructor will teach you the basics of the car and its components.
Now this is very important.
So you have various components like accelerator brakes.
You have clutch steering indicators, side rear view mirrors and various others.
So only after you understand the importance of each component and how it plays in the overall functioning
of the car, then you can learn to drive and you can learn it quite effectively in a similar way, even
in Kubernetes.
Before we go ahead and work with various things, like, for example, setting up Kubernetes cluster
from absolute scratch, like Kubernetes the hard way, or if you want to secure a specific Kubernetes
component.
Before we go ahead and do that, it is first important for us to understand the architecture of Kubernetes
and the role that each component plays.
Now, at an overview, there are two primary categories of components.
One are the control plane components and second are the worker node components.
Control plane is the primary Kubernetes cluster is what you can refer to.
And in the worker node also you have some Kubernetes components.
And this is where your containers and pod resides.
Now when we discuss about Kubernetes components there are two major areas over here.
One is the Kubernetes master node components, also referred to as the control plane node.
Second are the Kubernetes worker node components.
So first let's explore the Kubernetes master or the control plane node components.
You have the cube API server, you have the etcd.
You have the scheduler.
You have the controller manager.
These four are the most important.
And then optionally you can also have the Cloud Controller manager.
These are the control plane node components.
When we discuss about the worker node components there are two important ones.
One is the kubelet, second is kube proxy.
In today's video we are going to discuss about each of these components in great detail.
From practical point of view, this will give you a very solid clarity and understanding about Kubernetes
over here.
Now, just as an overview, I have also added a table which explains the description associated with
each component as part of Kubernetes.
You can use that as part of revision.
Today we'll start with each component in detail.
Now one of the very important component here is the API server, also referred to as the kube API server.
Now the kube API server it acts as a front end for the Kubernetes control plane.
So whenever you want to interact with Kubernetes cluster, you will be interacting with the API server
directly.
So here note that the kube API server, it exposes the Kubernetes API, which is used by other components
and users to interact with the cluster.
For example, let's say through kubectl you are creating a new pod.
So this instruction goes to the API server.
First all API server acts as the entry point for the cluster.
And this is the most important component here.
One more thing that you will see is that all the other components like controller, manager, etcd scheduler,
Kubelet all of them, they communicate to the kube API server over here.
So this becomes a very important component as part of your cluster.
Now before we proceed further, one more clarification that I wanted to give, because sometimes this
confusion happens among students is that what exactly are this.
I understand kube API server from architectural point of view, but how exactly it looks like?
Is it a script that is running in the background or what exactly it is.
So note that these are binaries that are available and you can download it directly from Kubernetes.
For example, when you look into download Kubernetes, you can download various tools.
For example you can download the kubectl over here.
If you go a bit down in the binaries, you have various binaries that are available related to the Kubernetes
cluster components.
Let's take an example.
If we go a bit down you see you have the kube proxy.
You have the kube scheduler, you have kube adm.
Then you have kubelet.
If we go a bit down you have the kube API server kube controller manager and so on.
So all of these are binaries that are available.
Once you download the binaries you can go ahead and run it in the server based on the appropriate set
of configurations.
Now let me also quickly show you.
So currently in my test server over here I have kube API server binary that is available.
It is in this specific location usr local bin.
So if I quickly go to usr local bin.
Let's do an ls hyphen L over here.
You see, I have multiple set of binaries that are available.
For example kube proxy, binary kube API server, binary etcd related binary scheduler controller manager
and so on.
So these are the binaries that you can download from the Kubernetes website.
And then you can run it based on the appropriate set of configurations.
For example, from here, if I try to run the kube API server binary you see it will get started.
However, at this stage it is giving an error.
What is the error?
It states that you must specify certain configuration options like etcd servers and others for the kube
API server to start.
For example, the kube API server that we were discussing, it connects with the etcd.
As you can see in the diagram also.
So in order to start kube API server you have to point to the IP address where the etcd is running.
So this is what the error is stating that you have to specify the etcd servers over here.
This is very important for kube API server to start.
Now the question that comes is how can we inform kube API server the IP address of the etcd.
And the answer is various options.
So for each component like kube API server there are multiple set of options that are available.
So these are the flags that you can pass.
You see the number of flags and options are quite extensive.
So there is a lot of customizations that you will be able to do.
One of the important one here if I search for etcd server.
So here you see it says list of etcd servers to connect.
So the basic idea is that whenever you start the kube API server, you will also have to specify the
etcd servers, followed by the list of etcd servers and other important configuration flags that might
be required in the overall cluster.
Now for today's practical, I have a Kubernetes cluster that I have set up from scratch.
This will give us better clarity.
Now I already have a cube API server that is already running in the background.
So if I say systemctl status cube API server, you see our cube API server is active and running.
Now this is managed through systemd.
So if I quickly open this and show you the configurations, these are all of the configurations.
For example here you see in the exact start we are starting the cube API server with various important
options over here.
One of the options that you will see is related to the etcd servers.
You see.
This is the one.
Along with that, there are various other options like related to audit, related to authorization,
the service account and others.
All of these options are used and together with all of these configurations, the cube API server is
running in our environment.
And this is the reason why when you run commands like kubectl get pods.
Just for an example.
Oops, we made a small typo.
Let's run it again.
Kubectl get pods.
The reason why we are able to see this is because the kube API server is running.
So this can also be understood in this diagram where whenever you make or run a command through kubectl,
ultimately the request will go to the API server.
If API server is down then the request will not really be entertained to.
So let's also try it out.
So let's say I stop the kube API server over here.
This can take time.
Generally kube API server since it connects to various other components.
Stopping the kube API server can sometimes take a minute or two.
And in the larger cluster it can take more amount of time.
Now one more point that I want to note is that stopping the kube API server does not mean the containers
will stop working.
The containers will continue to work, but this front end entry point for the Kubernetes control plane
that will stop working.
Alright, so our kube API server is now stopped.
Now at this stage.
Other components are running.
For example, if I say systemctl status kube scheduler.
All other components are working perfectly well.
Only the API server is down.
Now at this stage, whenever you run kubectl commands, for example kubectl get pods, you see immediately
we are getting an error stating that the connection was refused.
So since the API server is the frontend for the Kubernetes, if the frontend is down, then you will
not be able to perform any new set of operations.
However, the containers behind the scenes they continue to work.
For example, if I run command like crystal pods, you see we have the nginx pod and various other ports
that are available, so you will be able to make a query and the containers associated with the pods
are also running perfectly well.
All right.
So this is one point.
Let's go ahead and start the kube API server again.
Great.
So I hope with this at an overview you understood the basics of the component of cube API server.
The second, and a very important component as part of the Kubernetes cluster is etcd.
Etcd is a key value store, and it acts as a backing store for all of the cluster data.
Note that it is considered to be like the database for your entire Kubernetes cluster.
If the etcd component is down, or if the data in the etcd is down, then all of your data as part of
the Kubernetes cluster is lost.
This is one of the most important components that you have to make sure that it is sufficiently backed
up.
So in my environment I also have the etcd that is running.
For example, if I say systemctl status etcd.
You see our etcd component is also active and running.
Now if I bring down the etcd component over here and now when I run say kubectl get pods, you see this
same kube API server is running, but kube API server does not really know because all of the data like
what pods are running in which nodes they are running, everything is stored as part of etcd.
Now kube API server is not able to contact the etcd.
So it is not able to retrieve the data and send that data back.
So this is one of the reasons why you are not really getting a response from the kube API server, because
the backing store itself is down.
However, when I run the command like cri, CTL pods over here, here you are not connecting to the
kube API server, you are looking directly as part of the host.
And this data you will be able to get it.
And even if you want to see the list of containers, all of those things you will be able to get.
But the connections to the kube API server will not really work properly because etcd is down.
For example, when I say kubectl get secrets this also you see, you're not really getting any response
back.
So this is the reason why etcd is a very important component as part of your cluster.
So you have to make sure that it runs all of the time.
Once the LCD is up, when you run the command, you see this time we are getting response back perfectly
well.
The next important component in Kubernetes is the scheduler.
Now scheduler.
The main aim here is that it watches for newly created pods with no assigned node, and it selects the
appropriate node for them to run on.
For example, as part of your Kubernetes environment, you can have multiple set of worker nodes.
You have.
Node one.
Node two.
Node three.
Larger environments.
They can have hundreds or even thousands of worker nodes.
So when you create a new pod among all of the 1000 worker nodes that are running in your environment,
which node should that pod run on?
This is the role of kube scheduler component over here.
All right.
Let's also go ahead and test it out.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and run systemctl status kube scheduler.
I just want to show you the kube scheduler component here is also working.
Now what we are going to do at this stage when we say cube CTL get pods, we have one pod that is running.
Let's also try creating one more pod called as test pod with the image of nginx.
All right.
Now when I say cube CTL get pods over here.
You see our test pod is also running.
Now, the reason why the test pod is running is because the cube scheduler was able to assign the appropriate
worker node for this test pod.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and stop the cube scheduler component.
All right.
Let's verify with systemctl status cube scheduler.
And currently it is inactive or dead.
Now that we understand the role of cube scheduler, when you try to create a new pod, let's just call
it as new pod with the image of nginx.
This time it says the pod is created because from the API server side, this operation is completed,
but the pod has to be assigned to the appropriate worker node for it to run, and that is the responsibility
of the scheduler.
So when you run kubectl get pods over here, you will see that one pod is in the pending status because
there is no node that is assigned for this pod.
So it will continue to remain in pending status.
However the other pods, they will run perfectly well.
Why?
Because they are already assigned to the nodes.
So for the existing pods, the role of kube scheduler is not that important.
It is important for the newer pods that are created.
For example, if I connect to any of the existing pod, say nginx pod, you see I am able to connect
very easily.
There is no issue that is happening.
So only for the newer pod.
This is the issue that is getting faced.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and start the kube scheduler again so that our new pod will get scheduled.
All right.
Now when I say cube CTL get pods, you see immediately the new pod is now working.
And when you say cube CTL describe pod new pod, you will see that there is one event.
One of the first event is related to scheduling, and this is coming from the scheduler where it has
assigned the appropriate node to the pod that is supposed to be created.
So this is a very important event over here.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the importance of the component of scheduler.
Also the next important component is the controller manager.
The aim of the controller manager is to compare the state of the cluster, which is the current state,
and match it with the desired state.
In case if both of them are not matching, then it makes the changes to fix the differences.
We'll be discussing about this practically in just a moment.
However, note that the cube controller manager it has multiple set of other controllers, for example
node controller, job controller.
You have replica set controller, persistent volume controller and many others.
Now just for an example, I have added few of the controllers.
For example, you have Serviceaccount controller which creates a default service accounts for new namespaces.
So anytime a new namespace is created, a service account is created as well.
Then you have the replication controller deployment controller, you have a namespace controller and
so on.
So generally when a controller manager goes down, all of the functionality related to the controllers
will also stop working.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
Now before we do that, one thing that I wanted to show you is that in the Kube controller manager,
whenever you configure it from scratch, when you search for controller, let's see what are the options
that are available.
Or let's search for say this one the controller string.
So here you see a list of controllers to enable.
There are so many controllers that are available.
You see the list is very extensive.
So this component is very important in case if this component goes down, then all of the functionality
related to this component based controllers will also stop working.
For today's video, we are going to take few examples related to the controllers.
This will make sure that we understand things in more detail.
So at this stage when I run systemctl status Kube Controller manager.
You see it is active and running perfectly well.
Now what we are going to do.
Let's go ahead and quickly create a namespace just for testing.
Let's just call it as base.
Now when you look into the service account say cube CTL get service account and the namespace of base.
You see there is a service account that gets automatically created.
Now this is happening because of the service account controller that you see.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and stop the Kube controller manager service.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and create a new namespace.
Let's say kubectl create namespace new.
Now although the namespace is created but some aspects of the namespace.
For example service account.
In this namespace you see service account is not really created.
We know that this service account is taken care by the controller manager, and even in controller Manager
you have a specific component of service account controller.
So not only the service account.
In fact, all of the controllers that are running all of the functionality related to that controller
will stop working.
Let's take one more example.
Let's create a new deployment.
This deployment is based on image of nginx and the replicas is three.
Now at this stage when we run kubectl get pods let's run it again.
You see, the new pods are not really coming up.
And in fact when you say kubectl get deployments You see, the deployment status is zero out of three,
so new pods are not really coming up as part of deployment.
Now, if you try to create a new pod directly, let's say kubectl run my new pod with the image of nginx.
And now when I say kubectl get pods over here, you see the my new pod is working.
But the pods that were part of the deployment, those pods are not really coming up at this stage.
Why?
Because there are various other controllers that takes care of various aspects.
For example, you have deployment controller, replication controller and so on.
These are very important controllers.
If controller manager service is not working, a lot of functionality will stop working.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and bring back the Kube controller manager service.
Let's verify the status.
Our controller manager is up.
Now when we run the kubectl get pods at this stage, the additional pods are not yet ready.
So let's say kubectl get deployments.
Even at this stage it is zero out of three.
This is fine because we have just started the controller manager service.
It can take a minute or two for it to start working perfectly well.
So now when we run kubectl get deployments you see all of our deployments are ready.
When we do kubectl get pods you see three additional pods are created.
And also if you remember the namespace for example kubectl get service account in the namespace of new
that we had created.
You see the service account has also started over here.
This is one part.
One more thing that I wanted to show you.
Let's in fact bring the controller manager down again.
All right.
Now when you run kubectl get deployments, the deployments are working and the pods are also available.
Now at this stage as we know that controller manager has various controllers like deployment, replica
set and so on.
Now at this stage, when you go ahead and delete pod, for example kubectl delete pod, let's delete
one of the pod as part of the deployment.
Now the deletion will work perfectly well.
Now at this stage when you run kubectl get deployments you see deployment.
It is still showing three out of three.
Even though we had deleted one of the pods.
So let's verify kubectl get pods.
You see only two pods are available.
And if we delete one more pod, let's go ahead and delete one more pod over here.
Now we have deleted two pods.
Now at this stage when you do kubectl get deployments, you see the deployment is not really updated.
It is still showing three out of three.
So this is also an important role of controller manager.
So new pods will not be created over here.
So only whatever pods are running that will only run after you bring up the controller manager service.
It will check the current state because current state is only one, but the desired state is three,
so it will make the changes accordingly.
So when you say kube systemctl start kube controller manager.
After it has started it will verify the current state.
It will check the desired state and then it will bring back two new pods as part of the deployments.
For example, when I say kubectl get pods, you see there are two new pods that are getting created
over here.
And if we run it again two new pods are running over here.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood about the component of controller manager.
Now the next important component that we are going to discuss is the Cubelet.
Cubelet is generally part of the worker node, and the primary aim here is to be a node agent.
It interfaces with the container runtime to actually start the container.
Let us explore the process over here.
So whenever you create a new pod through kubectl, we know the request first goes to the API server.
Now from the API server again based on what scheduler.
Because scheduler will assign the appropriate worker node.
Once the node is assigned, the API server will send a request to the Kubelet associated with that worker
node to create a new pod.
Now Kubelet will interact with the underlying runtime.
It can be Containerd and various others.
And using this, a new container gets created as part of the worker node.
So Kubelet plays a very important role.
In case if Kubelet stops working, then the new pods will not really be created in that specific worker
node.
Alright, now Kubelet.
It takes the set of pod spec that you might have defined, and it ensures that the containers that are
described in the pod specs are running and healthy.
Let's also try it out.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and delete the deployment that we had created.
Great.
Now at this stage we have kubelet that is running.
For example, if I say systemctl status kubelet, I have the kubelet component that is also running
over here.
Now at this stage, let's go ahead and stop the Kubelet component.
All right.
Now when you run kubectl get pods you're able to see the list of pods.
Let's run it again.
You're able to see the list.
But when you try to connect to the pods.
You see all of these connections will get refused.
You are getting the connection refused message.
This is one part.
Second important part is whenever you try to create new pod.
Let's just call it as new pod zero one with the image of nginx.
So at the API server level, it is stating what is created.
Now when you say kubectl get pods, you see the pod is in the pending status only.
And in fact when you do kubectl describe pod new pod zero one at this stage this is very important because
for the new pod, the scheduler has assigned the node associated with the pod.
So the worker node is assigned.
But the problem is that when kube API server is trying to contact the kubelet as part of the worker
node, it is not able to contact.
So this is the reason why the pod is not getting created at all.
All right, so I hope with this you understood the workflow.
After the scheduler has assigned this worker node, the API server will contact the kubelet of that
worker node.
But since the kubelet is not working, the pod will not really get created.
So let's go ahead and start the Kubelet again.
Once the Kubelet is started, then when you run the kubectl get pods, you see the pod is now running
perfectly well.
The next important component is related to kube proxy.
Now, the primary aim of Q proxy is to intercept the connections to the cluster IP addresses and load
balance across the group of pods backing each service.
So this proves to be very useful specifically in a service based scenario.
And when the connections are made to the cluster IP.
Let's also go ahead and try it out.
Now if I quickly show you I have the kube proxy that is also running over here.
Our kube proxy is working perfectly well.
Now let's do one thing.
Currently we have many ports that are running.
Let's go ahead and create a new set of pods.
So I'm going to create a deployment called as web demo with the replicas of three.
So in total three pods will be created.
So now when you run kubectl get pods we have three new set of pods that are created.
Now what we are going to do.
We are going to create a new set of service over here.
So we are going to run kubectl exposed deployment.
And the name of service is going to be web demo.
Now associated with the service.
There will be three pods.
When I run kubectl get service over here.
You see we have a web demo service.
This has a cluster IP of this one.
And associated with this there will be three endpoints that will be registered.
So when I say cube CTL describe service web demo associated with the service.
You see there are three endpoints that are registered.
So now what happens is whenever we make a request to this cluster IP the request will go to one of the
endpoints over here.
Let us also quickly look into it.
So when I say cube CTL run let's say curl pod with the image of alpine curl.
And let me just say sleep for a while.
All right.
Now when I say kubectl get pods over here, our curl pod is running.
Now before we connect to the curl port, let's quickly look into the cluster IP of the service, which
is this specific one.
So now let's quickly connect to the curl port.
Now from the curl port, if I make a request to the cluster IP of the service let's clear the screen.
You see we are getting a response back.
So this part is handled primarily by Q proxy.
If Q proxy is not working, then this part will not really work.
So if you see behind the scenes there are iptable related rules that are created.
For example, if we search for a specific rule, you see this is the output that we are getting.
What exactly it is stating that if packet is going to a specific IP.
So this is the cluster IP.
In such case jump to a specific chain that is specified over here.
So let's search for this I'll say IP tables.
And then we are going to look for this one.
So this ideally should have the IP addresses of the pods.
For example over here this is the cluster IP.
So anytime a request that comes to the cluster IP it should be forwarded to three pods one 9295 one
9296 one 9297.
And if you will see kubectl get pods with output of wide, you will have three pods.
You see 97, 96 and 95.
So this part whenever a request goes to cluster IP it is forwarded and load balance between these pods.
All of these iptables related configuration is taken care by q proxy.
So in case for example, at this stage if I stop the kube proxy component.
So let's verify systemctl status kube proxy.
It is inactive.
That is good.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and scale the deployment to total of five replicas.
All right.
So total of two additional pods ports will be created if you see total of two ports.
These are the two ports that are created and this will also have its own port IP.
For example, kubectl get ports with the output of white.
The new ports that are created it has IP of 192 99, 192 100.
Now as this stage, since the kube proxy is not working, if you run this iptables command again, you
see it only has the IP address of the previously created three ports.
The additional two ports that we had created, the IP address associated with it is not really updated
over here.
So let's run it again.
You see the newer IP address are not updated.
So at this stage what will happen is when you make a request to the cluster IP, it will only be load
balanced between these three.
It will not be load balanced between the total five ports that we have created.
So after kube proxy services enable it will then add two additional ports as part of this.
Alright right.
Let's go ahead and verify.
I say systemctl start kube proxy.
Once Q proxy started let's run the iptables command again.
This time you see you have five IP addresses in total.
The 192. 101 92.99.
All of them are added as part of iptables.
So this is the importance of the proxy service.
Now before we conclude, one more thing that I wanted to share is the importance of containerd.
Now not necessary Containerd.
You can use other container runtimes also, but this runtime is responsible for creating the actual
container.
If the runtime is not working, then Kubelet will not be able to create new set of containers based
on the pod spec.
For example, if you see I have systemctl status container D, container D is extremely important.
Otherwise the containers the pods will not really get launched.
So when I say systemctl, stop containerd.
Now, when you say kubectl get pods now, although it is showing the pods, for example, let's run
it again.
It is showing the pods.
But when you try to connect let's say kubectl exec curl pod.
You see you are getting connection refused in a very similar way.
If you try to create a new port, let's say kubectl run new pod zero two with the image of nginx.
Now when you say kubectl get pods, this new pod over here, you see the status is pending over here.
Now generally when the containerd stops working, it will also affect the kubelet.
For example, when we say systemctl status kubelet.
You see, even the kubelet is down.
So this is also one point that you have to keep a note.
So let's go ahead and bring back the containerd.
And let's also go ahead and start the Kubelet service.
Or you can go ahead and restart the Kubelet.
Once you have done that, when you run the kubectl get pods, you see this pod is currently in the container
creating state.
Let's run it again.
We are able to see that it is running.
And if you try exec you see exec is also working great.
So I hope with this set of practical demos now you have better understood various Kubernetes components
and the important role that it plays.
Many times what happens is that in production environment, certain functionality of Kubernetes stops
working.
Now you do not really know what exactly is wrong.
So if you understand the role of each component, for example, let's say that new service accounts
are not getting created, then the problem is mostly related to the Kube controllers manager service
or a new pod is not getting assigned to any worker node.
In such case, the problem is related to the cube scheduler service.
So once you understand the role of each component, any time during the troubleshooting aspect, if
things are not working, you can quickly identify that this component might be responsible, and then
you can troubleshoot that component and look into the logs associated with it in a very similar way,
whenever you're building a Kubernetes cluster from scratch in that set of videos, also, you have to
first understand the role of each component, and then only you can build the Kubernetes cluster from
hardware.
Or if you want to secure a Kubernetes cluster, then also the importance of learnings that we gain in
today's video is extremely useful.
Great.
So finally we are concluding this video, a long video.
But again, I hope this has been useful.
We have discussed about the role of each components in Kubernetes, and this is definitely going to
help you in wide variety of scenarios related to troubleshooting, building Kubernetes, cluster the
hardware from scratch, securing the Kubernetes cluster, and so on.
So I hope this learning has been useful for you.
And with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of sysctl ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about Sysctl.
Now one of the very critical components of an operating system is its kernel.
And when we discuss about the Linux kernel, it has multiple set of internal settings that can be tweaked
by organization.
And that in turn will control its behavior.
Now this internal settings that we are referring to these are also called as the kernel parameters.
And tweaking the kernel parameters allows the administrator to fine tune the kernels operation for specific
set of workloads.
Now there are a lot of kernel parameters that are available, and as a user, you can go ahead and modify
them based on the requirements.
Now, when it comes to tweaking the kernel parameters based on the requirement, the sysctl in such
cases proves to be very useful.
Now at a high level.
Overview.
Sysctl is a standard utility for interacting with the kernel parameters that are exposed via the proxies.
So in the proc filesystem under says you have multiple set of kernel parameters that you will see,
and you can modify them accordingly.
And at a high level.
Overview.
Sysctl provides much more convenient interface to modify the kernel parameters rather than directly
manipulating the files.
For example, over here, if you see there is a specific parameter of IP underscore forward.
So you can also look into what is the value associated with it using the cat command.
So you have cat.
Then under proc sys net IPv4 ip underscore forward the value is one.
Now the same thing you can also do using sysctl.
So all you have to do sysctl.
Net IPv4.
So this is the same.
Net IPv4 IP forward.
And the output you see is one.
So using sysctl things becomes much more easier not only to view a specific value but also to tweak
to modify things accordingly.
Now in a Linux system, whenever you run a LLS hyphen L on the root, you will see that there is a specific
folder of proc.
So this is the proc file system.
A very important one.
Now within here if you go to proc SSIS, if I press enter you see there are multiple folders that are
available here.
Now the process is one of the primary directories that allows us to look into the configuration of various
kernel parameters.
Now again note that these are divided across the folders.
For example, if I do ls hyphen l proc ssis then.
Net.
Now within here also there are multiple set of sub folders.
Let's say you are more interested in IPv4.
So now what you will do you will go to IPv4.
And within here these are the parameters that you can go ahead and tune accordingly.
One of the very important parameters is the IP underscore forward.
And when you look into IP underscore forward Let's just do a cat.
You will have the value.
It can be 0 or 1.
Now, one thing that we have to keep a note of is that each parameter.
In fact, let's just do ls hyphen l.
Each parameter has its own set of use case, and based on what exactly you want to tweak as part of
the kernel, you will modify the parameter accordingly.
Now we were discussing about the IP underscore forward.
So what.
It states that this specific parameter is used to tell system whether it can forward the packet or not.
So generally let's say you have a VPN in VPN you will have to enable it.
Otherwise things will not really work as expected.
And depending upon the role of the server, you can either set this to be enabled or you can set it
to be disabled.
Now in this case, it is clearly stating that we should ensure that the IP forwarding is disabled.
And there is also a rationale which states that setting it to zero ensures that the system with multiple
interfaces will never be able to forward the packets and therefore never serve as a router.
So depending upon the exact requirement, you might have to set it to zero, or you might have to set
it to one based on the use case.
Now this is one part.
The second part.
As we are discussing you can also view the same value using sysctl.
So if I type sysctl you can directly start with.
Net.
No need to explicitly specify the proxies.
So you can say net and instead of slash over here you can just put a dot.
Net dot IPv4 dot IP underscore forward.
Oops we made a small typo.
It should be sysctl.
And within here you see the value that we are getting here is one.
You can go ahead and change it as well based on the requirement.
Now discussing about the modifications there are two type of modifications that you will see.
One is the temporary second.
One is the permanent.
For both of them Sysctl can be used.
Now note that directly when you modify a specific kernel parameter, it will be a temporary way and
that will not persist during restart.
For example, if you look into the screenshot, you are using the Sysctl to go ahead and first view
the value associated with the parameter.
In this case, the value is zero.
Now in case if you would like, you can also set the value.
So you see you have Sysctl.
The name over here equals to value either 0 or 1, and then the value will be set.
Now once the value is set in this approach, when you restart your system, the value that you had set
will not persist.
It will again go back to zero.
So this is more of a temporary modification.
Now let's also go ahead and try it out.
Now in the step number one we had looked into the structure of the proc file system specifically related
to the kernel parameters.
Now in the step number two we are going to explore on modification of some of these parameters.
The one that we will target is going to be VM Swappiness.
Now from here you can identify what is going to be the directory.
If you want to see the value associated with the Cat command.
First let's go ahead and run this.
Let's clear the screen.
When I run this command at this stage the VM swappiness value is 60.
Now in case if you would like in Google, you can also go ahead and look into what exactly a specific
kernel parameter is for.
For example, we are discussing about VM Swappiness.
So what?
It states that this kernel parameter is a value from 0 to 100, and that controls the swappiness of
application data from physical memory to virtual memory on a disk.
Now, we don't really have to understand this in a detailed manner.
All we have to do is learn on how sysctl can be used to modify a value of a appropriate kernel parameter.
Now the same value.
If we have to get it from the cat command, the approach would look something similar to this.
So you have proc, you have SSIS.
Within the SSIS, you will have VM and within VM you will have Swappiness.
And if I press enter we get the value over here.
Now one more point is that when you want to change the value associated with any parameter, there are
multiple ways you can directly run the echo command.
So let's say I run echo 70 and I add it as part of this parameter here.
Once you have done that, when you run the Sysctl VM Swappiness again, let's clear the screen.
You see, this time the value is 70.
And in case if you like, you can also go ahead and use the Sysctl to go ahead and add a value.
Let's say I'll add a value to 80.
And now if I run the Sysctl VM dot swappiness this time the value is 80.
Now within the slide we were discussing that this specific approach that we have used This is for temporary
modification.
It will not persist across restarts.
Now, just for simplicity, let me just go ahead and restart the system so that we get a better clarity.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to the server once we are connected.
When we run the same command of Sysctl VM Swappiness, you see you have the default value of 60 over
here.
So all of the values that were explicitly added has been removed.
So in case if you would like to have a permanent modification, you can go ahead and store them as part
of the appropriate Sysctl based configuration files.
And this will ensure that the system will read those values during the boot time.
Now within here there are two important files that you should be aware of.
One is the etc. Sysctl conf and second is etc..
Sysctl conf.
So sysctl dot conf.
This is primarily the main configuration file.
You can also add the configuration parameters here.
However, nowadays the modern approach that is preferred is the second one where you go ahead and create
a file under the Sysctl with the extension of conf, and in the file you can go ahead and add the appropriate
value for the kernel parameter.
Now let's also quickly look into it.
Now if you look into the sysctl dot conf this is the main configuration file.
You can go ahead and you can decide to add the values over here.
But this is something that is not really preferred.
The preferred approach is the etc. Sysctl.
So you can go to etc. Sysctl dot and within.
Here you see there are multiple files that are available.
Each file will have its own set of configuration.
For example, let's see the kernel hardening dot conf.
So this is the description.
And within here you see this is how the appropriate values can be set associated with the kernel parameter.
So let's do one thing within.
Here we'll create a file called as custom dot conf.
And within here we'll add VM swappiness.
And I'll set the value to be 70 over here.
Let's just verify again to ensure that we have done it correctly.
Yes.
You should also make sure that the name is correct.
So you can just verify Sysctl.
You can just copy this to verify there are no typos.
And yes, there are no typos here.
Now at this stage, once you have added this in the configuration file, you will see that it is not
really taking into effect right now.
Maybe after you have rebooted the system it will take the newer value, but at this stage it is not
taking the newer value.
So this is what the next slide is all about, which states that after editing the appropriate conf file,
the changes won't take effect until next boot, unless you apply them manually.
So in such cases you can run the Sysctl hyphen hyphen system to load the parameters from these configuration
files again.
So what you can do is you can just run the Sysctl system and it will take the newer parameters.
And specifically this is the one which is VM dot swappiness equals to 70.
So if you run the sysctl on VM dot swappiness you are getting the value of 70.
Now, since you have added it as part of the Sysctl dot D, even if you reboot the system, you will
see that this value will persist.
Let's go ahead and also try it out.
Let's connect to the server once again.
And let's run this command once again.
And this time you see we are getting a persistent value of 70.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the importance of the sysctl utility specifically while modifying
the kernel parameters.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview - Setting Up Kubernetes Cluster with Kubeadm ---

[No English transcript found for this lecture]

--- Launching Servers for Kubeadm ---

[No English transcript found for this lecture]

--- kubeadm - Setting Up Kubernetes Master Node ---

[No English transcript found for this lecture]

--- kubeadm - Setting Up Kubernetes Worker Node ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can set up the worker node using cube ADM.
Now, the overall process of setting up the worker node is very similar to that of the master node.
For example, in the master node we had set up the container D, we had set up certain repository related
to downloading the cube packages and so on.
So all of this will remain to be the same.
The major difference here would be that you are not going to run the cube adm init command, along with
the Cidr block that we had specified.
And you are not going to run the installation process related to the networking add on, because that
happens as part of the master node.
So till this part configuring repo and installation, all the steps will remain to be the same.
And then we will directly join the worker node similar to the command that we had seen at last when
we had configured the master node.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try this out.
So you can directly just copy paste the commands.
Now for today's video I have the master node and I also have the worker node in a different app.
So remember that you have to run this command in the worker node.
Once this is done now again it's time for installation of Containerd.
And similar to the configuration that we had done in the master node.
Similarly we have to edit this specific option.
We'll do a Ctrl W to search.
We'll copy this one.
Let's search this and we'll change it from false to true.
And I'll save this once.
Then let's restart the container D and you can just check the status of container D to ensure that it
is working.
We'll do a Q to get out of it.
Great.
So let's go with the step two.
And now the important step of configuring the repo and the installation.
This part you can skip.
You can use this one again.
This is just to check what are the versions that are available.
You can directly use this specific one.
Great.
So this marks the base installation.
Once you have ran this command, the next important command is this specific one which is Kube adm join.
Now what exactly this command contains?
It contains the IP address of the master server.
This is very important.
In your case this will change.
And also the token to join will also change.
So I'll copy this.
Now again I have added this command that we are going to use in today's video as a reference in the
GitHub repository.
Make sure that you do not copy paste this and use the command that was generated as part of your master
node configuration.
All right.
So let's run this command.
So this will connect the worker node to the master node.
And once this is done as part of the verification, you have to run the kubectl get nodes command where
in the master node to check if the worker node is connected successfully and is in the ready status.
So now in the master node you can run this command.
So you see this time we have a kube adm worker node and the status is ready.
Sometimes it might take a minute or two for the status to get ready.
That is fine.
Give it a time, but make sure that both the status associated with master and worker nodes are ready.
Great.
So that's a high level overview on how you can set up the Kubernetes cluster using kube ADM.
As we saw, the base commands for setting up the master and the worker node remains to be the same.
The only difference would be the kube adm init the network add on that needs to run the master node,
and in the worker node you have to do a kube adm join.
But apart from that, the overall process is quite simple and it allows you to deploy the secure Kubernetes
cluster quite quickly.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Kubernetes from Scratch - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to start with the interesting set of series related to building Kubernetes
cluster from scratch.
Now at this stage we have been using Kubernetes through a managed cluster offerings like DigitalOcean.
Or maybe you might have provisioned a Kubernetes cluster using minikube or kube ADM.
Now, although in production environments, using a managed Kubernetes cluster is recommended to keep
your life simple.
However, when we discuss about larger enterprises, they generally build their own Kubernetes cluster
from scratch based on the requirements.
Along with that, whenever you go ahead and learn on how to build a Kubernetes cluster from scratch,
it will enhance your learning about how different components of Kubernetes connect with each other and
how the entire Kubernetes environment is set up.
So you will have a much more better learning about Kubernetes when you implement this.
Now, one of the important goal of this specific series of videos is to go ahead and build Kubernetes
cluster from scratch.
Now when we discuss about this, there are two important components here.
One is the control plane related component.
Second is the worker node related components.
Now if you look into the control plane related components over here you have the kube API server.
You have the etcd, you have the scheduler, you have the controller manager.
These are the four very important components.
And when we discuss about a worker node you have two important components.
One is the kubelet and second is the kube proxy.
So generally when you go ahead and create Kubernetes cluster from scratch then you will have to set
up each and every component.
So you will have to download the binary of kube API server controller manager, scheduler etc. then
you will have to use the appropriate option.
To start each of these component.
You have to supply appropriate option so that these components get connected with each other and so
on.
So a very interesting set of videos with lot of learnings.
Now as part of the architecture related to these series of videos, in total, there will be two servers
or two virtual machines that will be needed.
One will be for the control plane node components like etcd API server, etc. and one server will be
specifically for the worker node where we will have components like Kubelet kube proxy that will come
into picture.
Now one very important point that we have to keep a note of is that deploying a Kubernetes cluster from
scratch is not part of the exams.
However, it is very important that you go ahead and learn the overall workflow.
It will enhance your learning about Kubernetes and its components.
Now when we discuss about it from exam perspective, you can expect small troubleshooting related questions
related to the Kubernetes cluster.
For example, let's assume that in exam you will have a cluster that is built.
It includes the control plane node and the worker node.
Now the exam question might say that some specific feature is not really working.
For example, pods are not really getting scheduled.
So what might be the issue?
As part of your Kubernetes cluster, is it related to API server?
Is it related to scheduler?
Is it related to the kubelet that is in the worker node?
So in order to troubleshoot what component might be giving an issue, it is important that we learn
on how to build a cluster from scratch.
If you learn on how to do it from scratch, the troubleshooting part will also become easier.
Alright, so the last point states that your high level understanding on how you can build a Kubernetes
cluster from scratch, and how the components are connected, it will help you solve this set of troubleshooting
questions.
Again, they are not really complicated.
If you have understood and gone through the videos associated with the course, you will be able to
answer them pretty quickly.
Now, one more pointer that needs to be noted is related to the version constraints.
Now when we discuss about Kubernetes, the new versions are released quite frequently.
And this is the reason why whenever you build a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, it is very important
to use the exact same version, the exact same commands that we have used as part of our setup guide.
For example, as an instructor, let's say that we have learned on how to build a Kubernetes cluster
from scratch using the version of 1.32 for all of the components.
Now, let's say that tomorrow a new version of 1.33 has been released.
And as a user, you go ahead and try to use a setup guide to configure the Kubernetes cluster.
1.33.
Now in most of the cases it will work perfectly well, but it is not guaranteed.
It can happen that 1.33 requires one more additional option that was not required as part of 1.32,
and due to that one small option, your cluster will not really start.
So this is something that we do not really want.
Now many a times what happens is that let's assume that current version is 1.32.
Now we have created the course with 1.32.
And by the time the course gets released, there is a new version of Kubernetes of 1.33 that gets released.
Now, your good thing is that almost majority of the features that we will be discussing as part of
this course, all of them will remain to be same across the Kubernetes version.
So it is not really an issue.
Issue is specifically when you set up a Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
Small changes can lead to issues, and this is the reason why we will follow the exact steps, the exact
version that is part of our setup guide.
Now, one point to note is that as part of this specific series, the main learning that we have to
gain is on how we can download the appropriate binaries associated with various components of a Kubernetes
cluster, how various components are connected with each other, and how the entire setup is made.
This is the main aim if you understand this.
With any Kubernetes version, it does not really matter even if it is a little old.
If you understand the connection then it will be easier for you at a later stage to build a cluster
with a newer Kubernetes version, maybe with 2 or 3 additional options.
And from the exam perspective, as we know, troubleshooting is the main part.
If you understand Kubernetes cluster from scratch troubleshooting, you will be able to do in the newer
version of Kubernetes as well.
Along with that, one point that needs to be noted is specifically related to the operating system constraints.
Now, we generally recommend to use the same operating system version that we use as part of our practicals.
And the main operating system that we are going to use is ubuntu.
And it is going to be the ubuntu, which is the long term support.
Now, the benefit of long term support is that this specific set of OS will be supported for a pretty
long time.
For example, ubuntu 22, which again is quite old.
It is supported till 2032.
You have more better LTS versions available like ubuntu 24 LTS with a much more extended support as
well.
So again we'll be discussing what is the exact LTE solution that we'll be using as part of the upcoming
videos.
But this is one point that needs to be noted.
Now, before we conclude this video, one more point that I wanted to share is that when you build a
Kubernetes cluster from scratch, you will have to go ahead and set up each component here individually,
like you'll have to set up the etcd.
You'll have to set up API server, the controller manager and so on, and then also interconnect them.
And this is the reason why if you look into our GitHub page, there are multiple steps that are involved
to build a Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
So here you see there are so many steps that are involved over here.
So this is also one point to note.
So it is not like one video where we'll go ahead and set up all of the components for each component.
We'll have a separate video as part of this series.
And at the end we'll go ahead and test the entire setup.
So this is a very high level overview about the Kubernetes cluster from scratch and what to expect.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Common Patterns - K8s From Scratch ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about some of the common patterns that you will see specifically
when you set up the Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
Now one point to note is that as part of this set of videos where we'll go ahead and create Kubernetes
cluster from scratch, you will have to go ahead and set up each and every individual component manually.
And then you also have to take care of the appropriate connections, because ultimately, all of the
component needs to interact with each other for the cluster to work perfectly well.
So initially it might look a little overwhelming, but if you explore the common patterns that are used
to set up each and every component, for example creating the certificates, this will be required for
each and every component.
Creating kube config file.
This will also be required for a wide variety of components over here.
So if you explore the common patterns that you will see in setting up each and every component, then
things will become much more easier and the entire set of videos will be easier to grasp.
So the aim of today's video is to understand some of the common patterns that you will be implementing
while setting up each of the component as part of the Kubernetes from scratch based videos.
Now, one of the first common pattern that you will see is the certificates.
Now, one point to note here is that each component needs to communicate with each other.
For example, the kubelet in the worker node needs to communicate to the API server.
The kube scheduler also needs to communicate to the API server.
So how exactly does this communication work?
Because the kubelet might be running in a different server altogether.
So how does the authentication work.
So this part of authentication between multiple set of cluster components over here it happens via the
certificates.
And this is the reason why for each component that is part of the cluster it is the kubelet.
It is the scheduler, it is the controller manager etc. for each component, we will be generating its
own set of certificates.
All right.
So this will be through a certificate authority.
Again we will have a separate video associated with this.
But in short you will have a certificate authority.
And from here we will generate a certificate for each component so that they can trust each other and
the communication can happen.
Now let's also quickly explore this from our setup guide.
So let's take two example of controller manager and scheduler.
Now in the controller manager here you see you are going ahead and you are creating a certificate for
the controller manager.
Similarly even for scheduler you are going ahead and you are creating a certificate signing request
for the scheduler component.
And then you are creating the certificate.
So ultimately we will have to go ahead and create a certificate for wide variety of components.
And then that certificate can be used as a trust for the communication between each other.
The second common pattern that you will see is related to the kube config file.
At this stage, we know that there are multiple components as part of the cluster, and these components
need to interact with the API server primarily.
So in order for that to work, we are going to go ahead and make use of the kube config file for individual
components.
Now let me also give you an example.
So generally I have a managed Kubernetes cluster that my current configuration is connected to.
Now when I do kubectl get pods I am getting a list of pods.
Now the question that comes is how exactly does my cube CTL know where exactly the API server resides?
What is the address of the API server?
How will my cube CTL authenticate to the API server?
So all of them happens through a kube config file.
Now at this stage we know that the kube config file generally resides in the cube folder.
The name is config.
In fact, if I open this file, this file contains certain very important information like the server.
So this is basically the address to which the cube CTL will connect to.
It also has certain other important information like the token which is used for authentication.
If the token is not correct, it will not be able to authenticate.
Now again, note that token is not the only way to authenticate.
You also have certificates using certificates also, things will work.
However, depending upon what kind of cluster you are using and what is your preference, this part
can change.
Now when we set up the Kubernetes cluster from scratch, we are primarily going to make use of certificates
for the overall communication.
Now, similar to what we saw in the kube config file, specifically the IP address of the API server
along with the token.
Similarly, when you set up the components like scheduler, kubelet, etc., those components also require
information related to where exactly the API server resides and also the approach to connect to that
server.
For example, it can happen that kube API server is in a separate server, one controller manager is
in a separate server two.
So how will controller manager know the address of the kube API server?
Or how will the kubelet which is residing in the worker node, know the address of the kube API server?
So this is where the kube config file comes into picture.
And for the components that we are going to build, we are going to also have the kube config file associated
with them.
For example if you look into the controller manager you see we are going ahead and we are building the
kube config file over here.
Alright.
So this is one part.
Similarly when we discuss about scheduler again for the scheduler, you see we are going ahead and we
are building the kube config file for the scheduler over here.
So these components like the controller manager scheduler etc. will use that kube config file to know
where exactly the kube API server resides.
And also the kube config file will have the appropriate certificates that were generated earlier so
that the communication will happen.
If certificates are not there, then they will not communicate because that trust is not really present.
Now let me also give you one more example related to kube config so that this concept is understood.
So currently I am in a worker node and in fact in the control plane node.
In fact both of these control plane and the worker node I have set up these from scratch.
So when you do a kubectl get nodes you have a worker node.
And currently this is where we are logged in.
Now in this specific worker node if I look into war lib cubelet let's do a list over here.
In fact if you see in the worker node over here, Kubelet is one of the very important components.
So for kubelet related configuration, one of the important file that we have used here is the kube
config.
Now if you will explore the kube config file let's go a bit up.
You can go ahead and see what exactly it contains.
One of the very important information that it contains is the IP address of the kube API server.
So if you look into the chart the cubelet connects to the kube API server.
So how does Kubelet know where exactly the cube API server resides?
What is the port in which it is running?
The simplest answer is the cube config file.
So here you see you have the IP address associated with it.
In the user you have names.
Then as you are discussing we do not use token based authentication.
We use a certificate based approach.
So this is the certificate data over here that the cube config will use to connect to the API server.
So similarly you will have multiple cube config file for each of the components over here.
Now the third common pattern that you will see is related to the configuration options that you will
supply while starting any of the component like API, server, etc..
So for each component, there are certain configuration options that you will also have to pass on.
Now let me also give you an example related to it.
So let's take two example.
One is the cube API server and let's say controller manager.
Now the cube API server you have this.
So you use this to start the cube API server.
But you will also have to supply certain flags.
So these are all of the options that are available.
You see the list is quite extensive.
Now again, you do not really need to use all of the options to start the API server, but there are
some that are quite important in order to start it.
For example, when we discuss about a kube API server, you see the API server connects to the etcd.
And this is the reason why if I supply, say etcd and will search for it, you will see there are so
many flags that are available related to the etcd.
And let's say that you are configuring the API server.
Let's open this now.
One of the things that you will see is that when we start the kube API server, one of the important
flags will be related to etcd.
You see there are so many flags related to etcd.
One of them is the etcd server.
So here you specify what exactly is the IP address of the server where the etcd component is running
along with the port, because without etcd the API server will not really work.
So when you want to start a API server, you will have to use certain configuration flags so that API
server can connect to the appropriate component that it needs, like etcd, along with some important
configurations to start perfectly well.
Similarly, when we discuss about the Kube controller manager, even for this component, you will have
to supply flags.
So there are so many flags that are available over here.
And in fact, if you look into the guide of the controller manager also you see you start the Kube controller
manager.
There are certain flags that are available over here.
So this is one important part to note.
Now again note that it is not really important from exam perspective to know all of the flags that are
available.
There are few important flags for each component.
We will be discussing practically about them when we start with the practical videos.
However, at this stage, just note that for each component that you set up, you will also have to
go ahead and supply certain configuration option for the component by itself to start, and the last
common pattern is related to the system D.
Now we can go ahead and manually start the cube API server, but we do not really want that.
We want the API server to run in the background.
We want that if a server restarts, then the API server should automatically start.
So all of that can happen easily using system D.
So what we are going to do, once we have understood the important configuration options for component,
we will use the system D to go ahead and manage the service.
So if you want to stop the component for example you want to stop scheduler.
We'll use system D to do that.
If you want to restart the scheduler component we'll use system D to do that.
Let's also quickly explore this.
So currently I am in the worker node over here.
Now if I quickly do system CTL status kubelet you see it states that the Kubelet is active and running
similarly in the control plane.
If I say system CTL status kube API server, It shows that it is active and running.
So let's assume that I want to restart Kubelet service.
So what I can do, I can just say systemctl restart Kubelet and that's about it.
If I want to stop kubelet what I can say systemctl stop kubelet.
And now if I say systemctl status Kubelet.
You see, kubelet is inactive.
And in a similar way, if I want to start kubelet, I can just do systemctl start kubelet.
And if I look into the status, it is running in a very similar way.
Let's say the system restarts, so systemd can automatically start the kubelet and all of the important
components as part of the Kubernetes cluster.
So you don't really have to manually start them.
Great.
So these are some of the important common patterns that we will be using while setting up each component
as part of the cluster.
So once you understand it at a high level overview, the setup will also become much more easier.
So that's an overview.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Launching Servers for K8s from Scratch ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and launch the infrastructure required to go ahead and set
up the Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
Now, as we know, there are two important sections of components.
One is associated with a control plane like API server, etcd scheduler and controller manager.
And second one is associated with the worker node, primarily the kubelet and kube proxy.
So what we are going to do we will need in total of two servers, one server where our control plane
related components are configured.
Second is where our worker node specific components are configured.
And then we'll test the entire setup.
So what we are going to do we are going to go ahead and launch two servers.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So let me just select Bangalore.
You can use any region of your choice.
It does not really matter related to the operating system.
We are going to make use of the LTS one at this stage.
24.04 LTS is what we are going to use.
I will recommend using the same one over here.
Now one more point that needs to be noted is that for the control plane node We are going to launch
a slightly larger server for our testing, which is two GB Ram and two CPUs over here.
All right.
So this is the one that we are going to make use of.
Now you can also use the authentication method SSH key password.
Just for an example I'll just use SSH key over here and the name of the droplet.
So you have a host name.
So I'll specify control plane.
Now this part is important because when we configure the individual components for some of the configuration
settings this hostname will prove to be very useful.
Alright so this is one thing that you have to keep a note.
Again.
We'll be discussing about this in just a moment.
Once you have done that, you can go ahead and create your server.
And in a similar terms, we'll go ahead and launch one more server for the worker node component.
Now for the worker node we do not really need a larger server.
Whatever smallest options that you have like one GB Ram, one CPU, this is quite good enough.
We'll use this.
And same with authentication, you can choose the appropriate one, and the host name that we are going
to supply will just call it as worker.
I encourage you to use the same host name that we have used as part of this video.
This is very important.
Otherwise at a later stage it will create issues.
So I'll go ahead and I'll create droplet.
Now again note that in case if you are using a different provider like AWS etc., that provider by default
they will not allow you to set the host name.
The host name might be different in such case, you can explicitly.
After logging in to the Linux server, you can set the host name associated with it.
So basically you can change the host name of the server.
So once you have done that, you can just quickly check the connectivity.
You can copy the IP address of the control plane node.
Now from the terminal I will use the appropriate key to connect to the server over here.
Great.
Now again note that let's say that you are using AWS for launching ubuntu 24 LTS.
The root user might not be allowed.
You might have to use the use the ubuntu user or maybe the EC2 hyphen user.
So this is something that you'll have to check specifically related to provider.
But ultimately once you're logged in, you can switch to the root user.
This is important.
All of the configuration settings that we'll do will be using the root user for simplicity.
Now in a similar way, let's copy the IP address of the worker node.
And you can just quickly log in using the appropriate key that you might have.
Great.
So currently we are connected to both the control plane server and the worker node server.
Now within your if you will see I have a hostname.
The hostname is the exact one that we had specified while launching the server.
In this case it is control plane and in this case it is worker.
So this hostname is again important.
So I highly encourage you to go ahead and have the same hostname for your infrastructure.
Great.
So that's a high level overview about creating the appropriate infrastructure.
In the upcoming videos we'll go ahead and we'll start with the steps required to set up the cluster
from scratch.

--- Overview of Kubernetes Component Binaries ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss at an overview about the Kubernetes component
binaries.
Now, whenever you want to set up a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, first very important step here
is to download the binaries associated with each individual component.
So you'll have a binary of API server, binary of controller, manager, scheduler, etc..
And then once you download the binaries associated with all of the components, then by supplying the
appropriate configuration for these binaries, you can go ahead and start the Kubernetes cluster.
For example, if I go to the binaries folder I have a binary associated with kubectl.
And this is the reason why from the CLI, when I run kubectl command, we are basically getting the
appropriate output here.
And then you can use kubectl to connect to the Kubernetes cluster and perform certain operations.
Similarly you will see I have a binary for Terraform, I have binary for vault, etc. in a similar way,
you will also have to download the binary associated with each component in the server where you are
setting up the Kubernetes cluster.
All right, so in the control plane node server you will have to download the binary associated with
the control plane components.
In the worker node server.
You will have to download the binary, specifically the kubelet as well as kube proxy.
Now in Kubernetes when we discuss about these binaries, they are divided into three categories.
One are the server binaries.
Then you have the node binaries and then you have the client binaries.
So it is important for us to understand the difference so that we can download the right set of binaries
based on the functionality of a server, whether it's a control plane node, whether it is a worker
node, or whether it is a client.
Now in Google, when you type Kubernetes GitHub repo, you will get to the official repository associated
with Kubernetes.
And within here you will have multiple set of releases that are available.
So at the time of recording of video, the latest one is Kubernetes 1.32.1.
And by the time you see the video, you will have a much more higher release.
So this does not really matter at this stage.
The aim here is to understand on where can we download the binaries from.
Now when you explore this specific one here you have assets like source code.
Now when you also explore the changelog over here associated with this, you see you have the client
binaries, you have the server binaries and you have the node binaries.
In fact if you go a bit down also you have the main source code, you have the client binaries, you
have the server binaries, and you also have the node binaries.
So it is important for us to understand the difference between all of them.
Now the first important part to note is that when we discuss about the server binaries, these are the
binaries associated with the control plane node components like the actual API server binary, the controller
manager, the scheduler, and other.
Then when you discuss about the node binaries, node binaries are basically the worker node binaries.
So here you will primarily see kubelet and kube proxy that will run in the worker node.
And then when we discuss about client binary one of the important binary in this case is the kubectl.
So first we are going to explore the server binary.
Now again you don't really have to download it.
I'll just download it and I'll show you on how exactly it looks like.
So we'll use this specific one which is the Amd64 server Linux.
So I'll quickly download this.
Along with that I'll also download the node binaries of amd64.
And I'll also download the client binaries associated with Linux amd64.
So let's quickly find that this one.
All right.
So total of three compressed files are getting downloaded.
So currently here you see the download is in progress.
Let's wait for the download to complete post, which we'll see what exactly the compressed file contains.
And when you look into the download there are in total of three files.
One is the client binary.
If you see the size is quite less only 31 MB, the node binary is 123 MB and the server binary is 347
MB.
So let's go ahead and extract all of them.
So I'll extract the server binaries first.
If you see the uncompressed size is quite large.
So now once the server binaries are extracted let's go ahead and explore this.
So inside this you have the server binaries.
And within here you will see your binaries associated with wide variety of components.
You have cube adm.
You have the cube API server.
The controller manager is there.
You also have the kubelet.
And the most important part is the cube scheduler.
So when you set up the control plane node there are four binaries that you will need.
One is the API server.
You have the scheduler, you have the controller manager.
And when you see you have the API server, the scheduler, the controller manager.
And one more important binary of etcd.
However, over here you see etcd is not really present.
We will be discussing why in just a moment.
Before we do that, let's go ahead and explore a few more.
When you look into the node binaries here, let's extract this.
Now when you look into the node binaries extracted folder within here we have node binaries.
And within your you have kube adm you have kubectl also available.
The most important one is the kubelet and the kube proxy.
These are the two very important binaries that you will be using as part of the worker node.
And then the last one is the client binaries.
So this is the client binaries.
Let's also extract this.
So let's open this.
Within here you have client you have binaries.
And within there the primary binary that you will see is the kubectl.
Alright.
So depending upon what is the role of a appropriate server, you will download either the server binary
or the node binary.
And if it is a client, you can use client binary as well.
Now one more important part as we were discussing is that in the server binaries the etcd component
is not really there.
And why is that?
The main reason is because etcd is not officially part of Kubernetes.
It is an independent project and in fact etcd is just not used in Kubernetes.
It is used in a wide variety of other projects as well.
So this is an independent component by itself.
And if you want to download it, you can go to the etcd repository to do that.
So generally in Google when you say etcd GitHub you have the GitHub repository associated with etcd.
And here also you will see there are multiple releases that are available.
So if you explore this is one of the release at this stage.
If I open this, then if you go a bit down, you see, you can go ahead and download the compressed
file associated with this component as well.
Let me also show you again you don't really have to do that.
I'm just showing you so that there is no confusion.
So when you go ahead and download this the size is quite less.
So within our folder this is the compressed file.
Let's go ahead and extract this.
So this is the extracted folder.
Let's open this within your you have the CD binary.
This is the most important binary that you will be configuring before you configure any Kubernetes component.
You also have etcd CTL.
But the primary one that we will need as part of the Kubernetes cluster is the etcd.
Great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the important component binaries that
you need when you configure a Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
And also we discussed from which locations you can download the appropriate binaries file from.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Download Kubernetes Binaries ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video at a high level overview, we were discussing about the locations from which
you can download the appropriate binaries for configuring the control plane as well as the worker node.
So in today's video, the aim is to go ahead and download the binaries associated with the Kubernetes
component so that we can start with our interesting series of Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
So as part of today's video there are two steps.
First step is where we are going to download the server binaries in the control plane node.
And then we are going to download the node binaries in the worker node.
All right so here what we are going to do.
We are going to create a folder of root binaries.
And inside this specific folder we are going to download all of the binaries that are required.
Now one very important part make sure to use the exact version of the binary that is part of this specific
setup guide.
This is very important.
Great.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So first step is we'll create a folder of root binaries.
So in the control plane node I'll go ahead and I'll create the create the folder.
We'll go ahead and go to this specific folder here.
Currently the folder is empty.
And now we are going to use the wget command to download the server binaries.
Let's do that.
Great.
Now if you do a ls you will see that you have the compressed archive over here.
So here we are going to make use of a tar command to uncompress this.
Great.
So now if I do a ls hyphen l, you have a Kubernetes folder inside the Kubernetes folder.
If you will have to see inside Kubernetes folder, you have the important folder of server.
And inside this specific server folder you have bin.
And inside bin you have all of the binaries over here.
Now just for simplicity I have also added the command over here.
So just for an example, if you run this command, you will see all of the binaries that are part of
the uncompressed folder.
The primary binary that we need is the API server, the controller manager and the scheduler from this
specific archive.
So this is one part, as we have also discussed, that the etcd component is not really part of the
Kubernetes.
So for that you will have to download it separately.
So this is where the next command comes from.
Let's go ahead and copy this.
And within the root binaries folder I'll do a wget.
And here also you will see that you have this archive that is available which you will have to uncompress.
So we'll use the next command here.
Let's run this.
And great it is uncompressed.
Now if you do a ls this is the folder in which the etcd related binaries are available.
So if you quickly go here, if you do a ls you have these set of binaries available.
The most important one that we will require is etcd.
Great.
So all of our control plane related binaries are now available.
The next set of binaries that we will need is for the worker node.
So here also we will be downloading the node binaries.
The setup is same.
We will create the same root binaries folder.
And then we'll do a wget.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So in the worker node let's go ahead and create this folder.
We'll go to root binaries.
And then we'll use this to download the appropriate binary.
Once this is done let's go ahead and use the tar command to uncompress it.
And once this is done you can just use this command to just see what are the important binaries.
The one that we will be requiring is the kube proxy and the kubelet.
All right.
So this is the first and a very important step.
And from the upcoming video onwards we'll start to configure the required components for Kubernetes
cluster.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Certificate Authority ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to quickly revise about the certificate authority, because this is
one of the first things that we will be setting up.
And for all of the Kubernetes components through the certificate authority will be signing the certificates.
So before we do that, I want to make sure that this concept is understood to avoid any confusion at
a later stage.
Now, at this stage, we know that when we want to configure a Kubernetes cluster, it is not just one
component.
There are multiple set of components that are involved.
So when you have multiple set of components, there will also be communication across these components.
And we want the communications to be secured.
This is the first point.
The second point is that the components also need a mechanism to verify each other's identity.
For example, if a kubelet that is running in a worker node sends some request to the API server, how
will kube API server verify the identity of the kubelet?
This is very important.
It can happen that the attacker is trying to send a request to the kube API server, saying that he
is the Kubelet.
So should the kube API server send the details to the attacker.
Answer is no.
So in order to achieve a proper solution for the use case one and this specific use case certificates
are used.
Now when we discuss about certificates.
Certificate authority is one of the first things that needs to be configured.
Ultimately, certificate authority is an entity that issues the digital certificates.
So here what will happen.
First, the certificate authority will have its own certificate and its own key.
And then this certificate authority will issue signed certificate for various components.
For example the certificate authority will issue the certificate for the API server for the scheduler,
the controller manager, Cubelet, cube, proxy, etc. and this specific certificate authority will
be trusted by both the receiver and the sender.
So this way what happens is let's assume that kube API server is the receiver and Cubelet is the sender.
Now kube API server will verify whether the certificate that has been presented by the Cubelet is issued
by this trusted certificate, authority or not.
If it is issued by the trusted certificate authority.
The kube API server will assume that the entity is what it claims to be, and the communication will
happen successfully.
So let's also quickly look into high level overview on how exactly this might look like.
Now for today's demo I have a certificate authority certificate.
So you have one certificate authority certificate and the second certificate authority certificate.
Now when you have the certificate authority using this certificate authority you can issue signed certificates
for other entities.
So let's also quickly look into it.
Now again note that this is a demo video.
You can just understand it conceptually.
So here what we are doing is we are creating a certificate for the name of Zalora.
Now this certificate that is created, if you see this is the certificate of zeal.
Zeal.
And this is the key similar to this, the certificate authority will also issue certificate for the
kube API, server for the controller manager, etc..
Now you can verify whether this zeal certificate that I am presenting to a website.
Is it signed by the trusted certificate authority or not?
So let's assume that a website trusts this certificate.
So what happens is website says that any certificate that has been signed by this specific CA, I will
trust it.
So there is a way in which you can do a verification.
So you have open SSL, verify you are using the example org certificate authority certificate and then
you say Zeel dot cert.
So if I press enter you see it says okay.
That means that Zeel dot cert has been issued by this trusted CA.
Now I also have one more certificate authority of Kubernetes.
Now if I try to use the Kubernetes certificate authority let's verify.
At this stage it shows error loading file.
So let's do one thing.
Let's just copy this.
Let's do an LSE.
Let's run this command once again.
Let's make sure there are no typos.
Now when I press enter you see it says Is verification field.
So this means that this certificate authority certificate was not used to sign this specific certificate
of zeal.
And this is where the second part comes into picture, which states that the key part is both the receiver
and the sender trusts the CA.
So if this specific CA is signing the certificate for all of the components here, all of the components
must also say that I trust this CA.
So I trust all of the components that has the signed certificate from the trusted CA.
All right.
So this is one part to note.
Now when we go ahead and configure Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
First thing that we will be doing is we will be creating the certificate authority certificate.
And then for each component when we configure them through this CA certificate.
And the CA key will be issuing the final certificate for each component.
And that certificate will be used as part of the trust and verifying each other's identity.
All right.
So this is a very high level overview about the workflow that we are planning to have.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Setup Certificate Authority ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to go ahead and set up the certificate authority.
So before you configure components like API, server etc. where the certificates needs to be generated.
So these certificates will be generated through certificate authority.
So this certificate authority also will have its certificate and a key.
In today's video this is the primary aim.
So within here let's go ahead and quickly look into how we can set up the certificate authority.
Now again the overall commands are simple.
What we are going to do.
Similar to the binaries folder on how we downloaded the binaries in root binaries folder.
Similar to that, all of the certificates that we will be generating, every certificate will be part
of this specific folder of root certificates.
All right.
So let's go ahead and first create this.
Now from the control plane node we'll create this specific folder.
Let's go inside this.
And then first thing is we are going to create the private key associated with the certificate authority.
Then we are going to generate a certificate signing request.
The common name here is very simple which is Kubernetes CA.
So from here we can easily identify what exactly this does.
And then we are going to do a self sign.
Great.
Now, if you do an ls hyphen L, you will have two important files.
This is the main certificate.
Authority certificate.
And this is the CA key.
Now in case if you also want to see the contents of the certificate, you can just copy this.
You can run it over here.
And the most important part here you will see the common name here is the Kubernetes CA.
And it also shows you the validity.
So it is valid till 2020 7th October.
And the last part of this guide is to remove the CSR.
So basically if I do ls this CA dot CSR is no longer required.
So you can just remove this file.
So only two files are required.
One is the CA certificate and the CA key.
Great.
So that's a high level overview.
At this stage.
As we know we have generated the main CA certificate and the key.
Using this certificate and the key we will be issuing new certificates for each component as part of
the cluster.
And all of the components will be trusting the certificate authority and any certificates that are issued
through this trusted CA will be used successfully as part of communication, because all of the components
will be trusting those certificates.
All right.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Configuring ETCD ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be configuring the etcd as part of our control plane node so that we can start
with a Kubernetes specific component configuration.
So just to revise when we discuss about etcd, it reliably stores the configuration data of the Kubernetes
cluster.
And all of the data associated with the cluster primarily gets stored as part of etcd.
And this is the reason why this is a very important component.
The second point to note is that before we go ahead and deploy any other component in Kubernetes like
the API server, etc., the first thing that we need is the etcd, because ultimately this is where
the data will be stored.
Now before we start, one more point that needs to be noted is related to the certificate creation workflow.
So we already have a certificate authority certificate in place.
So what we are going to do we are going to create the CSR of etcd.
This CSR will go to the certificate authority.
And from this specific CA certificate and key will issue the certificate associated with the etcd component.
And in fact same will go for all of the components.
If you are configuring say scheduler will create.
The CSR will use the certificate Authority certificate and the certificate Authority key to sign that
CSR to get the certificate of Kube scheduler.
And then the intercommunication will happen primarily using the certificate.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So what we are going to do we are more interested in configuring the etcd component.
Let's open this.
And within here one of the important prerequisite here is you have to set the server IP variable.
This will make things simple.
So what we are going to do whatever IP address that we have of the control plane node.
The server IP variable will have that specific value.
So let's do that I will say server IP equals to I'll just copy the public IP of the control plane node.
Again this is the IP to which the worker node will also communicate to.
So just for simplicity I'll add it over here.
Once you have done that you can just run this command to verify.
So let's do that.
Just verify again.
In your case the IP address will be different.
But just verify that the IP address is available as part of this variable.
The second important part is will be generating the certificates associated with the etcd component.
Again, all of the certificates will be stored in this folder of root certificates.
So let's first go to this folder.
And inside this we'll first generate the etcd key.
Then we'll have this CNF file inside the CNF file you see in the IP address we have the server IP.
So whatever you have configured here will be replaced here.
So let's copy this.
Let's add it here.
And one more thing.
You can just verify the etcd CNF.
Make sure that the IP address is replaced over here.
Once you have done that you can go ahead and generate the appropriate CSR in the CSR.
The common name here is etcd.
So we can easily identify.
And then we are signing that specific CSR.
So here you see in the in you are using the CSR and using the certificate authority certificate.
The certificate authority you are signing this CSR and the final output that you get is the actual certificate
which is this specific one.
All right.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
Great.
Now when you do a LHS this is the main part that we need the HCD certificate and the HCD key.
So in the next step what we are going to do we are going to create a folder of etc. HCD and we are going
to move this certificate and the key as well as the CA certificate into this folder.
So let's create this.
We'll copy these three files.
And then in the step three what we are going to do the binary of the HCD that we had downloaded.
We will be copying that binary in the usr local bin so that we can run the HCD easily.
So we'll go to the folder where the HCD binary was present.
This one you can copy this as well as the hcd CTL which will be used for testing in the usr local bin
folder.
So this is the base configuration.
Now we want to start the HKD service.
We don't want to start it manually.
For example, we can also run HKD something similar to this, but we do not really want to do that.
Why?
Because we also have multiple other components.
So we want HKD to run in background.
So this is the reason why we are going to use systemd to manage the HKD so that we can start, stop,
restart.
And in case if server restarts, the systemd can automatically start the HKD component as well.
So you have a user local bin etcd.
So the user local bin.
If you remember this is where we moved the etcd.
So in the exact start we are explicitly specifying that this is the path of etcd.
And then there are certain configuration settings here.
The very important configuration here is the trusted CA file which is the CA certificate.
If you remember CA certificate we had moved to etc. CD.
So basically the incoming connection.
So basically the connection that comes towards the etcd.
This connection related trust.
It will trust the certificates that are issued from this certificate authority.
Now at this stage, the CA and the CA key was used to issue certificate of etcd component.
But we are going to use the same CA to issue certificate for API server and other components.
So this is the reason why we have a trusted CA file over here.
So it will trust the certificates that will be issued through this specific certificate authority.
All right.
So this is one part.
And also note that here we are specifying the etcd certificate and the CD key that we had created.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
I'll add it over here.
And then we can use the systemctl to manage the etcd.
So we'll use the systemctl start etcd.
We'll clear the screen.
We'll use this.
Now if you want to verify you can say systemctl status etcd.
Make sure that the etcd is active and running.
You can press Q to come out of it.
And the last command here is systemctl enable etcd.
This is useful specifically when the server restarts the systemd will automatically start this component.
So I'll go ahead and I'll use this as well.
So once the HDD component is created, you can also use certain verification commands.
So what you can do you can go ahead and manually store some data in the etcd to see if it is working.
So what we are going to do we are going to make use of the etcd ctl.
This is the endpoint where the etcd is running.
It is running in the port 2379 in localhost.
Then what we are going to do, we are going to add some data of course.
And this is the value of course is awesome.
So here we are also specifying the certificate and the key.
Because without the certificate and the key you will not be able to store some data.
So let's go ahead and run this command.
You will get a okay message.
And then if you want to retrieve it you can run this specific command.
You get the output back.
All right.
So from here we can conclude that our etcd is successfully configured.
And we are able to store and retrieve the data from this component.
Great.
So from the upcoming video onwards, since our etcd is ready, we'll start with configuring the Kubernetes
specific components like the API server.

--- Overview - Configure API Server ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now before we start to configure the kube API server component in our control plane node, I just wanted
to share a few pointers that will help us in the overall process.
Now the first important point that needs to be noted is that the kube API server is the only component
that interacts with the etcd.
The same thing that you can also see from the diagram.
And this also means that when you start the kube API server, you have to supply the etcd specific information.
Otherwise the kube API server will not really start.
Now let me also quickly show you.
So again this is a demo server that I have.
Now when you try to start the kube API server component it does not really start over here.
Why it does not start?
There are multiple reasons.
One of them is because the etcd server was not really specified.
So if you see over here command fail hyphen hyphen hyphen servers must be specified.
Alright.
And this is the reason why there are certain important flags that you will have to configure.
One of them being the etcd server, because ultimately the data will be stored in the etcd.
That's why the kube API server will require this flag.
Now, apart from etcd servers, there are other flags that we will be using while configuring the kube
API server like the CA file cert file key file.
The reason behind this is because we are going to make use of the mutual TLS.
Since certificates are used.
We are going to have few more additional options.
And again these are just the etcd specific options.
We are going to have few more set of configuration flags that we will be adding while configuring the
kube API server.
All right.
So this is just one point that I wanted to note that just by starting the kube API server through the
binary, it does not really start.
You have to specify various other configuration flags in order for the overall workflow to work.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview.
And in the next video we'll start with the practical of kube API server.

--- Practical - Configure API Server ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be configuring the Kube API server as part of the control plane node.
So let's go ahead and open the configure API server related lecture.
And within here if you look one of the prerequisite here is you have to move the kube API server binary
from the root binaries folder to usr local bin.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Now within the control plane node we'll first go to this specific folder.
Within here you will have multiple set of binaries.
The one that we are targeting for today's video is the kube API server.
So we'll copy the kube API server binary to usr local bin.
Once you have done that, also ensure that the server underscore IP variable that we had set in the
earlier video.
The value is still present.
So let's go and copy this.
So when you run this you should basically get the IP address over here.
The next part is to generate the certificate associated with the API server as well.
So this is the reason why we'll go to the root certificates folder.
And within here we are going to going to create API conf.
And inside this one of the important IP address will be from the server underscore IP variable.
All right so we'll copy this.
Let's run this.
And the server underscore IP got automatically populated here.
Now the next part is will generate the certificates for the API server.
So first we create a key.
Then we create the CSR.
And then we issue the certificate from the CA certificate and the CA certificate key.
And this is the final certificate.
Let's copy this.
I'll clear the screen I'll run this command.
And now if you do a ls the important certificate here is the kube API certificate and the kube API key.
Along with that we'll also be generating the certificates for the service accounts.
So let's also go ahead and do that.
Once you have done that we are going to create a folder of var lib Kubernetes.
And inside this specific folder we are going to copy multiple set of certificates.
So let's first create this folder.
And inside this we'll copy the certificates.
Kids.
And also verify using this command.
You can just verify what are the certificates that are present.
Make sure that these are the certificates available in this specific directory.
Once you have done that we'll also be adding certain encryption related configuration here.
So let's copy this.
The next one.
So this basically will have the encryption key.
In fact if I do a LZ this is the file that got created.
And if I quickly do a cat on this file this is the encryption key through which some data can be encrypted
based on the requirement.
So this also we are going to move to var lib Kubernetes folder.
And that's the main base configuration.
Once you have done that now you can use the systemd to go ahead and start the kube API server on the
IP address over here.
And there are certain configurations related to the etcd because API server will be storing the data
here.
So this is one part to note.
All right.
So let's copy this.
We'll run it over here.
Once you have done that, the next part is to start the kube API service.
Now again, note that in case if you want to see what exactly each one of this option means, I have
also added the link in this specific git page.
So if you open this you have the options and the appropriate description.
Now again from the exam perspective you don't really need to know this.
You just have to know on high level overview on how exactly the components interact with each other
and some troubleshooting related aspects.
Alright, so this is the reason why initially we are keeping it at a high level overview.
Only once you have added the systemd will start the kube API server.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll start the kube API server.
You can use the systemctl status to check the kube API server.
Make sure that it is active and running.
You can press Q to come out of it.
And the last one is you will do a systemctl enable kube API server so that it starts automatically when
you restart your server.
All right.
So that's a high level overview about configuring the API server component.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Configure Controller Manager ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be configuring the Controller Manager component in our control plane node.
So at a high level overview at this stage the etcd and the kube API server components are already running.
So the next important component here is the controller manager at a high level overview.
Again controller manager is an important component and is responsible for maintaining the desired state
of your application and infrastructure.
So when we discuss about Controller Manager, there are a wide variety of controllers that it uses to
manage the overall state like it has the node controller, job controller, the service account controller,
and so on.
So let's also go ahead and quickly set up this.
Now within our guide I'll click on Configure Controller Manager.
So within your first we'll go to Route certificates.
So in the control plane node we'll go to route certificates.
We'll be creating the certificate for the controller manager component.
And once this is done what we are going to do we are going to copy the cube CTL binary to usr local
bin.
So basically the component like the controller manager, the scheduler, the kubelet all of these components,
they have to connect to the API server.
So in order to connect to the API server first it needs the address of the API server along with the
address.
It also needs to authenticate.
So certificates will be required.
So all of those data will be adding it in a kube config file.
So the reason why we are using kubectl is to generate the kube config file.
So we'll move the kubectl to the usr local bin.
Let's do that and just also verify if kubectl is available.
All right.
Once this is done we'll go ahead and we'll use the kubectl to create a kube config file.
You see it creates a kube config file for the controller manager.
So let's copy this.
We'll run it here.
All right.
Now if you do a ls the important file here is the kube controller manager.
If I do a cat on this specific file, you see you are using a certificate based authentication.
Here you have the IP address of the server.
This is basically the API server.
Now one point to note is that if a API server is running on a different virtual machine, then this
specific part will not be required.
Instead, the server IP where the API server is running on will need to be replaced here.
Now at this stage, what we are doing is we are going ahead and we are configuring all of the components
in a single control plane node.
And this is the reason why just for simplicity, at this stage in the kube config file we will add 1
to 7 001.
So once your kube config is available we'll be copying certain files like the controller manager certificate
controller manager key and the kube config to Kubernetes folder.
And once you have done that what we are going to do we are going to start the controller manager using
systemd.
So within here you have the kube controller manager.
And if you see we are specifying the kube config file over here.
So controller manager will use this specific file to fetch the contents, like where exactly the API
server is located, how controller manager can authenticate to the API server, and so on.
So we'll copy this.
We'll add it over here.
And then the important part is the cube controller manager.
Binary also needs to go to the user local bin because within the systemd file we have specified the
exact start as usr local bin kube controller manager.
So let's copy the binary.
Also we'll clear the screen.
Great.
Once this is done you can start the kube controller manager.
And then you can just quickly verify the status.
Oops.
We made a small typo.
Make sure that the controller manager is also active and running.
I'll press Q to come out.
And the last part, you can just enable it so that it starts automatically in case your server restarts.
Great.
So that's a quick configuration associated with controller Manager.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Configure Scheduler ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to configure scheduler.
So at a high level overview just to revise the scheduler component, it watches for newly created pods
that have no nodes assigned.
And it assigns the appropriate node.
So for example let's say there are three nodes and a pod needs to be created to which node the pod will
be created.
This will be managed through scheduler.
So at an overview kube API server will request scheduler to decide the node in which the pod should
be launched, and then the scheduler based on what are the worker nodes that are available.
It will assign the appropriate node, and the kube API server will inform the appropriate kubelet in
that worker node to create the pod.
All right.
So with this quick revision let's go ahead and configure the scheduler component as well.
So from our GitHub page I'll click on Configure Scheduler.
Again the overall steps are very similar to other components like the controller manager.
So let's go ahead and do that.
First thing we are going to go to root certificates.
And then we are going to generate the certificate for the scheduler.
So I'll copy this.
So from the control plane node I'll go ahead and I'll generate the certificates for scheduler.
You can just do a ls.
You can verify that the kube scheduler certificate is available along with the key.
Once this is done again for the scheduler, we are going to generate the cube config file.
As we know, the scheduler also communicates with the API server.
So it requires the address where the API server is running.
And also some of the important parts like the certificates that will be used as part of the mutual trust.
So we'll generate the cube config file.
We'll add it here.
And then what we are going to do we are going to copy this scheduler cube config file to Kubernetes.
And then we are going to use the systemd to start the scheduler.
So let's copy this.
We'll clear the screen.
We'll generate the systemd file.
And once I've done that before you start the scheduler you have to make sure that the scheduler binary
is in the usr local bin folder.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And then we'll use the system CTL to start the cube scheduler service.
Once this is done you can just run the system CTL status cube scheduler.
Make sure that it is active and running.
You can press Q to come out of it.
And the last part you can run systemctl enable cube scheduler so that it starts when the system restarts.
So that's a quick overview to set up the scheduler component.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Validate Cluster Status ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now at this stage, we already have the most important components.
As part of the control plane node that are configured, you have the API server running, you have the
scheduler running, you have the etcd running and you have the controller manager running.
So in today's video at a high level overview, we are going to look into how you can validate the cluster
status.
And also we will do a basic level of testing to see if things are working.
Now one of the easiest way in which you can verify if a component is running or there are any issues,
you can just run the systemctl status followed by the name of the service and verify if it is active
and running.
Along with that, you can use the kubectl get component statuses.
It will show you the status of various components like healthy over here.
However, one point to note is that this specific command is deprecated, but when you have a single
node based control plane components, this is something that you can make use of for simply testing
things quickly.
All right, so based on the version that we have installed of Kubernetes this works.
So we are going to also explore this now within the control plane node.
As we were discussing, one of the first things that you can use is the systemctl to check if a specific
component is working.
So you can check for kube API server, you can check for etcd, etc. I'll press Q to exit.
Now at this stage our kubectl is not really configured.
So when you do kubectl get pods we are getting error.
Why?
Because kubectl does not really know where exactly the API server resides.
It also does not really know the token or the authentication information that it needs to use to connect
to the API server.
So this is the reason why what we are going to do.
We are going to go ahead and create our kube config file that kubectl can use to authenticate.
So for that we are going to go ahead and create a user.
You can consider it to be admin user which is part of the system masters group.
And this user will use as part of kubectl.
So first let's go ahead and do that I'll copy this.
We'll run this And then we are going to create a kubeconfig file.
In the kube config file.
We are specifying the IP address where the API server is running.
In this case it is localhost.
I will copy this and along with this.
Note that this admin certificate is also something that we are adding, because the kubectl is going
to use this kube config file to authenticate to the API server.
And this is the reason why it will need a certificate.
So I'll clear the screen I'll go ahead and I'll run this command.
You can just verify what exactly is the content of this.
So I'll do a cat on admin Kubeconfig file.
You see you have the certificate.
The name is admin.
This is the certificate.
The next important part is the IP address of the cube API server.
In this case it is localhost over here.
So with this set now when you do kubectl get pods we are getting error.
Why.
Because the name of the file here is admin dot kubeconfig.
So what you will have to do you have to do kubectl get pods.
Then you'll have to supply the kube config file.
Say admin dot kube config.
And now you see we are not really getting an error in a similar way.
You can also run the kubectl get component statuses command.
And it will show you the details associated with each component.
As we are discussing, this specific command is deprecated in the Kubernetes version that we are using,
it is available, but in the future versions it will be removed.
So since we have a simple cluster where all of the control plane node components are in a single server,
we will use this just for quick testing.
Alright, once this is done, what we are going to do, since we do not really want to run this specific
hyphen hyphen kube config, every time we'll copy this admin kube config in the kube config path.
So it becomes easier because this is the default path that kubectl will use to fetch the config file.
So I'll copy this.
And now when you run any command like kubectl get pods post, etc. it will work.
So now that we have done the basic level of validation of the cluster status, we'll go ahead and will
create some objects as part of Kubernetes cluster to see if it is working.
So the first one that we are going to create is a namespace.
So let's copy this.
We'll create a simple namespace.
When you do cube CTL get namespace, you can just verify if the namespace is created successfully.
And the status here should be active in a similar way.
You can also go ahead and create a secret.
Let's copy this command.
We'll run this and now just verify if a secret is created.
When you do a cube CTL get secret, you should have a prod secret that is available and the data is
too great.
So that's a quick overview on validating the cluster status.
Now you can also do a lot of interesting things like creating pod deployments, etc. but for that we'll
first go ahead and configure a worker node post which we can do those level of testing.
So that's an overview.
And with this we conclude today's video.

--- Worker Node Configuration ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to configure the worker node as part of our Kubernetes cluster.
Now whenever you are setting up the worker node there are three important components that you have to
configure.
The first one is Kubelet.
Second one is kube proxy.
Something similar to this image as well.
And the third important component is the container runtime because ultimately the container needs to
run.
So Kubelet will require some form of container runtime that it can use to create and manage containers.
Alright.
So in total there are three components that we need to configure as part of the worker node.
So let's go ahead and start the process.
Now from our GitHub page we look into the worker node configuration.
Now in here one of the first prerequisite that we are fulfilling before we start with the kubelet and
the kube proxy configuration is the container runtime.
Now note that within this guide there are some commands that you will have to run as part of worker
node.
Some commands will have to run as part of the control plane node, so make sure that you read things
carefully, otherwise things will not really work.
Alright, so this set of commands will have to run as part of the worker node here.
So let's start the process.
Now within terminal I have one tab open for control plane node second tab open for worker node.
And based on the requirement we'll go ahead and run the commands in appropriate tab.
So first container runtime needs to run in the worker node.
So let's copy this.
We'll run it in worker node.
We'll install the container D.
Let's clear the screen.
Great.
Once container D is installed we'll go ahead and create the appropriate folder for container D along
with the configuration.
So I'll copy this.
Let's clear the screen I'll run this the next command.
And then we'll change the system D cgroup to true within this configuration file.
Once this is done you can just do system CTL, restart container D in case it is started and just verify
the status.
System CTL status container D and it is active and running.
Once container D is installed, few more configurations are required.
Let's run this.
Great.
So this is done.
Along with that, few more configurations are required.
So let's install these packages.
We'll set this.
And now what we are going to do.
The kubelet and kube proxy that we primarily need will move it to usr local bin.
So all of them are stored in this specific folder that we had created.
So let's go here and we'll copy the binaries to usr local bin.
Great.
So once the prerequisites are completed now we are going to generate the certificates for the worker
node, because ultimately the Kubelet also needs to connect to the API server and it needs to authenticate.
So in order to build that trust, the certificates also needs to be generated for these components.
And the certificate authority is in the control plane node.
And this is the reason why this specific steps of certificate generation will be running in the control
plane node.
All right.
Very important part to remember.
So first let's go to root certificates.
So in the control plane node we'll go to root certificates.
And then in this specific file OpenSSL hyphen worker CNF.
The DNS one is worker which is basically the hostname.
You have to make sure that the hostname is worker.
And the IP one over here is basically the IP address of the worker node.
So in this case you have to replace the IP address of the worker node in your environment.
So let's go ahead and copy
And then you can quickly open this OpenSSL worker CNF file.
And this specific IP one will replace it with the IP address of the worker node.
So this is the IP address from which the component in the worker node will connect to the component
in the control plane node, specifically the API server.
So this IP address must be correct here.
And then we'll generate the appropriate certificates.
Once this is done you will also generate the certificates for kube proxy.
So let's run this.
And now once the certificates are generated now the kubelet and kube proxy component when it starts
it will require to authenticate to the API server.
And for that it will require the kube config file that contains the certificate data.
And this is the reason why whatever certificates that were created you will have to copy that certificates
to the worker node from the control plane node.
Now what are the certificates or what are the data that needs to be copied.
You have the kube proxy certificate, kube proxy key, the worker certificate, the worker key and the
CA certificate.
Now there are two approaches to handle this.
For example let's do a cat on worker certificate.
You can copy this worker certificate from here and within here.
Let's go to temp.
You can just say worker.cr.
You can paste it here and you can save this.
So this is the manual approach that you can use to copy all of these files from the control plane node
to the worker node.
There is also one more better way using the SCP.
Now it can happen sometimes if SCP does not work due to some reason.
This is the reason why we also explore the manual way, so that in case one way does not work, you
also have the second way.
Now what we are going to do in the worker node, we are going to going to enable the password based
authentication.
So generally in the worker node let me quickly show you.
When you explore the SSH config and when you search for password authentication, by default the password
authentication is no.
So we will enable the password authentication.
So I'll copy this I'll run it in the worker node.
Make sure that this part is in the worker node.
And then we'll do systemctl restart ssh.
Now we are going to create a user.
We are going to set a password for this user.
Let me just set this specific password.
And once this is done now from the control plane node we are going to do an SCP.
We are going to copy this set of files to this specific node in the tmp directory.
This IP address needs to be modified.
All right.
So in the tmp directory let's just remove the certificate that we had created earlier.
And now let's copy this command.
We have to run this in the worker node from the root certificates folder.
And let's go ahead and also replace the IP address here.
Let's copy the IP of the worker node.
We'll add it here.
The password you can just copy from here.
Great.
So all of these files have been transferred.
So in the worker node in the tmp directory if you do an LZ you see you have all of the files that are
available.
Once this is done now in the worker node also we are going to create a folder of root certificates.
Let's do that.
And currently we are already in the tmp directory.
If you are not you can just go to the tmp directory.
And then you will move the files that were copied to the root certificates folder.
All right.
So now if you just do ls hyphen L on root certificates, these are the files that are available, and
these are the files that you will need to start the kubelet and kube proxy.
Now what we are going to do we are going to create a folder of var lib Kubernetes.
And we are going to copy certain files in var lib Kubernetes and certain files in var lib kubelet.
So let's do that.
I'll clear the screen.
We'll create this folder.
We'll we are already in root certificates.
If you are not you can just go to the root certificates.
Then you can copy the CA cert to the var lib Kubernetes.
Then we'll create one more folder of var lib kubelet.
So this folder is specific to the kubelet component.
And then we'll move certain important files like workers CRT worker key kube proxy CRT kube proxy key
in var lib kubelet.
Alright.
So if we directly copy this it is giving an error.
So let's do one thing.
Let's verify if var lib Kubernetes has this specific CA cert.
It has it.
This is good.
Then let's verify if var lib Cubelet has the worker.
CRT worker key cube proxy CRT cube.
Proxy key.
So these are the files that are required.
Just verify the timestamp also because it gave an error 1117.
So it was just copied a while back.
Great.
So as long as the files are present it is good.
Now we'll go ahead and generate the configuration file for cubelet.
Let's copy this.
Let's add it here.
And then we'll generate the systemd service file to run the cubelet.
So we have the cubelet over here.
Let's copy this.
We'll clear the screen.
We'll generate the systemd file.
Once this is done we'll also generate the kube config file for cubelet because ultimately cubelet needs
to connect to the API server as well.
So let's go to var lib Cubelet over here.
We'll copy the CA cert to this folder.
And we'll also have a server IP variable to that of the IP address of the control plane node.
So this is very important.
So let's copy the IP address of control plane.
We'll add it over here.
And now we are going to generate the kube config file for the kubelet.
And this is where the server underscore IP is present.
So kubelet needs to know the IP address where it can connect to the kube API server.
So we'll go ahead and run this.
And once this is done you can just rename this file from worker dot kube config to just kube config.
And you can just verify the contents of the kube config also.
So you have the client certificates.
Then you can just verify the IP address of the kube API server.
This is important.
And this is the CA certificate here.
Next thing is the configuration of kube proxy.
Let's copy this.
Will generate the kube config file for the kube proxy as well.
Once this is done, we are going to move the kube config file for the kube proxy to its appropriate
folder.
Alright, so ultimately there are two folders.
One is var lib kube proxy.
And the second one if you will notice is the var lib kubelet.
VAR lib Kubelet is for the Kubelet specific component and its files.
VAR lib Kube proxy is for the kube proxy component and files.
All right.
So this is important.
Once you have done that now you can go to the kube proxy.
And within here we will also generate the configuration file for this component.
And the last part is the systemd file for the kube proxy component here.
Great.
Once both of the components are configured next part is to start the kubelet and kube proxy.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So I'll clear the screen.
We'll start kubelet.
We'll start kube proxy.
And now you can just verify both of them are running.
You can say kubectl status kubelet.
It is active and running systemctl status kube proxy.
This is also active and running.
Once both of the components are running the next part you have to run it in the control plane node.
You have to verify if the node is appearing here.
So in the control plane node over here just verify by running kubectl get nodes whether a worker node
is appearing.
If you have done everything correctly the worker node will appear.
The status will be not ready.
This is expected.
Some additional networking related configurations are required.
We'll be doing that in the upcoming video.
But at this stage you have to make sure that the worker node is being seen in this specific command.
Great.
So that's a high level overview about the configuration of the worker node.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Configure Networking ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now at this stage we have our worker node configured but the status is not ready.
So the networking related configuration is pending.
So in today's video we are going to set up the appropriate networking and ensure that the status changes
from not ready to ready.
So going back to our GitHub we are going to specifically look into the lecture associated with configure
networking.
And within here there are certain steps that you will have to run both at a worker node level and the
control plane node level.
So here step one to step three needs to be run in the worker node.
And the last steps will run in the control plane node.
All right so let's go ahead and do that.
So first one is to download the CNI plugins in the tmp folder.
So I'll copy this.
Now in the worker node over here we'll go to the tmp folder.
We'll run the wget command.
Next step is we are going to configure some base directories for the CNI.
Let's clear the screen.
Once this is done, we are going to move the archive to the folder that we had created earlier.
So let's move this.
We'll go to this folder and then we'll uncompress the archive.
All right.
So if you see over here these are the files.
Once this is done in the worker node the next step you have to run it in the control plane node.
Very important part to remember.
Let's do that.
So in the control plane node will be configuring calico.
Again calico is one of the very popular ones.
You also have flannel and others that are available.
So let's copy the second command.
Let's create it.
Once this is done you can just do kubectl get pods.
All namespaces.
You will see certain pods that are getting created associated with calico over here.
Now after everything is created as part of this when you do kubectl get nodes.
The status should change from not ready to ready.
This is one important part to note now.
Also, one more point is that sometimes it can take 4 to 5 minutes for the status to change.
So this is something that you have to be aware of and also as part of troubleshooting.
In case if it still does not work.
Then in the worker node you can just restart the kubelet.
Wait for few minutes and then check if the status changes from not ready to ready.
Now that the status has changed to ready, we can go ahead and perform additional verification specifically
in terms of creation of pods.
So let's go ahead and create a new pod.
So in the control plane node I'll run this specific command.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods at this stage we are at a container creating.
So it will download the appropriate container image of nginx.
When you run the command again you see nginx is running perfectly well.
So this means our base configuration of Kubernetes cluster is set up perfectly well.
Along with that, in the step number six, What we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and exec
into the pod.
So for example we want to connect inside this specific pod.
So you can do an exec.
And we are basically running the LS command here.
You can also do something like cube CTL exec on nginx.
This approach is something that we had used multiple times.
And at this stage you are getting an error.
What is the error lookup worker on 12700 50.
So this is the DNS server misbehaving.
So ultimately let me also show you when you do a cube CTL get nodes.
This is the node.
And in fact when you do cube CTL describe pod nginx.
Oops.
Let's just fix this.
This nginx pod if you will see it is running on this specific node which is the worker node.
So the reason for this error is because the control plane is not able to locate or not able to have
the appropriate DNS resolution for worker.
So for example, when you try to ping something like worker, it will not really work.
It does not really know the address of the worker node.
So this is the reason why temporarily to check the overall connectivity, you can add the entry of the
IP address of the worker node in the etc. hosts.
Let's do that.
So within your I'll copy the IP address of the worker node.
And within here I'll specify the IP address I'll specify the worker.
All right.
Once you have done that when you try to do ping you see it is working because it is now able to find
the IP address.
And in a similar terms, when you run this command of exec, it is not really giving you the same error
as before.
So this specific error that you see this is a newer error.
What it is stating forbidden.
So this is more of a permission issue rather than the connectivity issue or the DNS resolution issue.
So this is good.
In the next video we are going to go ahead and quickly set up Rbac so that this error also goes away.
And then we'll have a successful exec.

--- Setup RBAC ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now at this stage when we ran the kubectl exec command, we were getting a forbidden related message.
So here we'll have to quickly set up the appropriate Rbac permission.
So what we are going to do we are going to go ahead and look into the Rbac lecture over here.
There is already a cluster rule and the cluster role binding that is available.
So we'll just copy this.
And from the control plane node we'll run this command.
So this is the cluster rule.
And the next one is the cluster role binding.
And once you have created both of them then you can try to run this command once again.
So let's clear the screen.
Let's try this.
And you see it is working.
Now sometimes it can take 2 to 3 minutes.
Additionally.
So in case if this command is giving an error that is fine.
Try after 2 to 3 minutes and it should work.
So that's a quick overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Configuring DNS in Cluster ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now at this stage, most of the configuration as part of the Kubernetes cluster from scratch is completed.
There are a few small ones that you have to be aware of at a very high level.
Overview.
One of the important ones is related to DNS.
So let's go ahead and explore this.
Now at this stage, if you run this command of kubectl cluster info in the control plane node, you
get the basic information like the control plane is running on this specific address in a similar way,
in a new tab where my kubectl is connected to DigitalOcean cluster.
When I run this same command again, one thing that you see it says Kubernetes control plane is running
on this address, and it is also stating that the DNS is running in this address.
So without DNS, the ports will not be able to have the appropriate resolution.
So this is the reason why it is also important to configure the DNS as part of the cluster.
All right.
So let's go ahead and also verify what happens if DNS is not running.
So what we are going to do first we are going to quickly create a BusyBox pod.
So from the control plane node we will create a BusyBox pod.
Just verify if the pod is running.
The status is container creating.
And then what you can do you can quickly connect to this pod.
So at this stage it must have been created.
Let's verify it is running.
Now we'll run the kubectl exec and from the pod.
When you try to do a name resolution let's say nslookup google.com.
You see, it is not really working in a similar way.
If you try something like ping google.com it is not really working.
Why?
Because it is not able to resolve the IP address associated with this domain.
However, if you try to do something like ping directly at an IP address level, it will work because
here no name resolution is required.
So it is important that our cluster also has DNS.
And the DNS that we are going to use this core DNS.
So you can just copy this.
And from the control plane node you can just come out of it.
So make sure that you are in the control plane node.
You will download the DNS YAML and you can just do a kubectl create from this specific file.
So it will go ahead and deploy the appropriate DNS specific components in your cluster.
Once you have done that you can run this command once more.
And this time you see core DNS is running.
And once you have done that you can again quickly connect to the BusyBox pod once.
Then you can just do Nslookup on google.com you are getting the IP address.
If you do ping on google.com, it is working.
Basically, the aim that you have to verify is that the resolution is happening perfectly well.
All right.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the importance of setting up the DNS related
component in the Kubernetes cluster.

--- Kubelet Preferred Address Type - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss at an overview about the Kubelet preferred address type.
Now, one thing that needs to be noted is that when we run commands like kubectl exec, when you want
to connect to the container, kube API server will receive the request and it will initiate the connection
with the kubelet that is running on the host.
As we know, each host runs a kubelet.
So for example, you have the API server over here API server.
In order to connect to the Kubelet, it will use certain information like either the host name or the
IP address, etc..
So let's assume that the API server uses the host name to connect to the Kubelet.
But if the host name is not resolvable, then the API server will not be able to communicate to the
Kubelet.
So this is the reason why it is important for us to know that in scenarios where the host names of the
worker nodes are not resolvable, we also can connect using the IP address.
Let's also explore this now.
At this stage when I do kubectl get pods, there are certain pods running.
Now when I do kubectl exec on any of the pod, let's say nginx pod.
This is working.
Why this is working?
Because we have a entry in the etc. host.
This is the entry that is resolving this worker to the IP address.
So API server knows that this worker is running on this IP address and the kubectl exec works.
But as soon as we remove the entry on the etc. hosts over here.
And now.
When you try to connect you see we are getting error related to resolution.
So ideally what you would like is when you do a kubectl get nodes, you have a worker node.
And when you do a kubectl describe node say worker.
Now if you go a bit up there are two important information here in the addresses.
You have the internal IP and you have the host name.
So by default the API server tries to connect to the kubelet using the host name.
In this case it is worker since it is not resolvable if we do not add it as part of the etc. host entry,
you get an error.
So what you can say to the cube API server is that instead of trying to connect to the Cubelet using
the host name, use the internal IP over here.
This is the IP address.
If IP address is presented to you, no name resolution is required, so this can work perfectly well.
So this specific configuration can be achieved using the Kubelet preferred address type.
Now if you go ahead and open the lecture associated with the Kubelet preferred address type within here.
Initially we have documented steps like from the host entry, remove this and try to connect.
This is something that we have already done.
So now what we are going to do.
We are going to tell API server to use the internal IP and not the host name.
So in order to do that, you can open up the systemd service file associated with kube API server.
We'll clear the screen.
We'll open this.
And within here in the exact start over here At the last we are going to supply this kubelet preferred
address type internal IP.
All right.
So I'll copy this.
I'll add it over here and I'll save this.
Now we are going to do a systemctl daemon reload.
And then we are going to restart the kube API server.
Now note that when you restart the kube API server it takes little amount of time.
It can take 2 to 3 minutes also.
So you'll have to wait accordingly.
Great.
So after a minute or two the API server is restarted.
And now if you want to verify you can try to do an exec again on the spot.
And at this stage just verify there is no host entry associated with the worker node.
All right.
So if you've done things correctly, if you try to do an exec it should work perfectly well.
This time the API server is going to connect using the internal IP instead of host name.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the importance of this specific configuration option of
Kubelet preferred address type.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Breakdown Learning - New ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now that our Kubernetes cluster is successfully set up both the control plane and the worker node,
we are going to have one final lecture associated with the breakdown learning.
Now at this stage, we already know that each component as part of the Kubernetes cluster has its own
important role.
Now for testing.
As part of today's video, we are going to bring down some of the components and we are going to see
what exactly will be the impact as part of the Kubernetes cluster.
Now, as part of today's video, we are going to bring down three components.
One is the scheduler, second is the Kubelet.
Third is the controller manager.
Now we already know the importance of all of these components as part of Kubernetes environment will
bring down the component.
And then we will see whether the functionality gets affected or not.
So as part of today's video we are going to explore the breakdown learning.
And within here before we bring the components down here we will quickly create a pod called as before.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
And in the control plane I'll go ahead and I'll create the pod.
Now if you do kubectl get pods, you should see that we have this pod that is successfully created.
Now the first component that we are going to bring down is the kube scheduler.
So we are going to make use of the systemctl command to do that.
So I'll run the systemctl stop kube scheduler.
And when you run the command of systemctl status kube scheduler.
You should see that it is inactive.
Once you bring down the kube scheduler we'll go ahead and try to create a new pod called as nginx hyphen
after.
So when you try to create this pod and when you do a kubectl get pods, you see the status of this pod
is pending.
Since scheduler is not available to make decisions on which worker node the pod should run.
The status will be in pending.
So now the next step is to bring up the kube scheduler component.
Again.
Let's copy this.
We'll start the kube scheduler service.
We'll do a systemctl status kube scheduler.
The kube cube scheduler is active.
Now when you do kubectl get pods, you see our nginx after pod is running successfully.
Well.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the importance of scheduler component.
The next important component is going to be the Kubelet.
Now Kubelet works in the worker node.
So we'll do systemctl stop Kubelet make sure that you run it in the worker node.
You can just also verify the status.
The kubelet is inactive.
So now what we are going to do we are going to go ahead and create one more pod through the control
plane node.
The name of the pod is Kubelet.
So in the control plane node you have created a new pod of Kubelet.
Now if you do a kubectl get pods again, you see the Kubelet pod status is pending.
So this is the basics of kubelet.
And the next part is you can bring the kubelet up and just verify if the pods get scheduled.
So just to verify if I run this command again the kubelet is still in the pending state.
So now we are going to start the kubelet in the worker node.
Just verify the status.
It is active and running.
And let's do a kubectl get pods.
And our Kubelet pod is running successfully.
And the last part is related to the controller manager.
So before we bring it down let's go ahead and create a namespace.
Now when we discuss about controller manager there are a lot of controllers that are available like
service account and token controllers and various others.
You also have node controllers.
So we'll use a very simple example.
We'll create a namespace.
So let's create a namespace called as namespace one.
We'll look into the service account for this.
And you have this default service account.
This is taken care by the controller.
Now at this stage if we stop the controller manager service let's do that.
Let's also verify the status.
It is inactive.
This is good.
And now we are going to create one more namespace.
Of namespace hyphen two.
And then we are going to verify the service account associated with the namespace.
And at this stage you see there is no service account that got created.
Service account creation.
Again you have the controller manager that is responsible.
So what we are going to do we are going to start the controller manager once again.
Now let's in fact run this command again just to verify there are no service account and there are none.
Now we are going to start the controller manager once again.
And when you do a kubectl get service account at this stage the namespace two does not have a service
account.
That is fine.
It takes a little amount of time since we have just started the controller manager.
And now if you run the command again you see a new service account has been created.
Alright, so I hope with this using the breakdown learning method, you understood some of the important
aspects of each component and you can also do further testing, but we will keep it with three components
as part of today's video.

--- Overview of Network Policies ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Today we are going to go ahead and discuss about an interesting topic of network policies.
Now in case if you have worked with firewalls it can be a software based firewalls like iptables.
Or it can be a cloud specific firewall offerings like for example in AWS you have security group, you
have network ACLs, etc. irrespective of that, if you have worked with firewalls, then this topic
of network policies will be easier for you to understand at a high level.
Overview.
Network policies provides similar feature to that of firewall, but is specific for ports.
Now, one very important point that needs to be noted is that in a Kubernetes cluster, whenever you
launch multiple set of pods, these pods will be able to communicate with each other by default.
So Kubernetes allows the pods to communicate with each other in the cluster.
And there are no restrictions in these set of communications.
So for example pod one can connect to pod two.
It can also connect to port.
Three.
And similarly, all of the ports will be able to inter communicate with each other.
Now at an overview this is fine, but in a longer term when you have a production related setup, this
is something that you do not really want.
So let's understand this with a challenge.
So let's assume that one of the ports that is part of your Kubernetes cluster is compromised.
So some application that was running in this port and that application is compromised and the attacker
has access to it.
Now what attacker can do since by default this compromised port can communicate with all other ports
that are part of the Kubernetes cluster.
Attacker can use this port one to attack all other ports that are part of the cluster.
And this is something that you do not really want.
This unnecessarily increases the attack surface area and gives attacker a better chance to compromise
other ports as well.
So in an ideal scenario, what you would like Is that only the pot that have genuine requirement to
connect to other ports?
These connections should be allowed.
Rest.
All of the connections should be blocked.
For example, application port will require to connect to the database port, so this connection should
be allowed.
But there is also a test port that is running.
You do not really want test port to connect to the database port and fetch all of the important data.
So this kind of communication should not be allowed and it should be blocked.
So this specific part on what communication should be allowed between ports, what communication should
not be allowed, etc..
This part can be achieved using network policies.
So at a very high level.
Overview.
Network policies are mechanism for controlling the network traffic flow in a Kubernetes cluster.
For example, let's assume that these are the three ports that are part of the cluster.
Now you can go ahead and create network policies and associate it to the their respective port.
So if you look into the network policy here, it states.
Sources app port destination is database port effect is allowed.
So now what will happen?
Any communication between app port and the database port here.
Will be allowed.
Similarly you have a source of test port destination is all effect is denied.
So test port will not be able to communicate with any other entity like ports as part of the.
Kubernetes cluster.
And using this network policies you can go ahead and design the idle network communication.
Based scenario for your Kubernetes cluster.
Now when we discuss about network policies and in fact when you also discuss about any firewalls, you
will typically create two set of rules.
One is the ingress rule also referred to as a inbound rule.
Second, you refer to it as a egress rule or an outbound rule.
So just for an example, let's say that you have a Enginex pod over here.
Now if a server or if a pod wants to communicate to the nginx pod.
So this is an incoming connection and is referred to as ingress.
Similarly, nginx pod might want to communicate with other pod or nginx pod might want to communicate
with the internet.
So this part of communication from this nginx pod towards another entity, this is referred to as a
egress connection.
So whenever you create network policies, you can set the rules at a ingress level or at a egress level
as well.
And you can combine them as well based on the requirement.
So let us also take an example with respect to firewall inside DigitalOcean.
So whenever you create a firewall you specify the inbound rules over here.
And you specify the outbound rules over here.
Similar to this when we discuss about network policies, also you specify the inbound rule and you specify
the outbound rule.
The primary difference here is that this firewall that you create in, say, DigitalOcean, this can
connect to a server.
However, this specific rules that we create, these are primarily associated with pods.
Now that we understand the basics, let's go ahead and take a step further to understand things in more
detail.
So let's assume that you have a source port over here and you want to set up a network policy.
So whenever you create a network policy, this policy has certain identifiers that it can use as part
of the filter.
For example this policy can be based on other ports.
It can be based on namespaces.
It can also be based on IP blocks.
All right.
So you have the port selector the namespace selector and the IP block.
These are the three very important entities based on which you can filter the incoming as well as the
outgoing connection from a specific source port.
So let's take one example of each one of them, and will also have a demo that will allow us to ensure
that our base concept is clear.
Now the first example is related to the port selector.
So what it states allow ports with a label of role equals to app, which is this one to connect to port
with a label of role equals to database.
So now what will happen.
Any port which has a role equals to app will be able to communicate to a port which has role equals
to database.
This as we were discussing this is like a genuine connection because application will have to connect
to the database.
And then what will happen in other cases is that any other port that does not have this label of role
equals to App when it tries to connect to a port with a role equals to database, that connection will
be denied.
Alright, let's have a quick demo so that we understand this topic in better terms.
Now for today's demo I have a network policy that is created.
The name of the network policy is Pod Selector.
Now I'll also do a kubectl get pods which show labels.
And currently we have three pods that are running.
Each pod has certain set of labels.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's do a kubectl describe network policy of pod selector.
And let's try to read what exactly it states.
So this is the area that we are focusing.
So first one is the pod selector which is role equals to database.
Now this part.
Now again there are two pod selector here.
The first pod selector which is outside here this one is inside.
So the one that is outside over here.
This basically states that whatever network policy that you see over here, this network policy gets
associated with this specific pod.
So the network policy of pod selector that we were just exploring this network policy, we can connect
to Test Pod.
We can connect to app pod.
We can connect to DB pod.
Something similar to firewall.
Whenever you create a firewall, you can associate it with server one.
You can associate it with server to, etc. so to which server you want your firewall to be associated
with.
So this setting is what this is all about.
So what it states that this specific network policy of pod selector will get associated with any pod
that has a role equals to database.
Now in this case there is a pod called as DB pod.
And this DB pod has the specific role of database.
So this network policy will only be associated with this database pod and not any other pod.
Alright.
This is one part.
Now that we know that this network policy gets associated with database pod, the next part is what
exactly does the network policy do?
So let's read.
So this network policy allows inbound traffic from.
Now you have a pod selector role equals to app.
So what it means that this network policy first is associated with this.
And then it allows inbound traffic from any pod that has the role equals to app.
In this case this is the pod that has the role equals to app.
Now note that generally at a pod level, it is not necessary to explicitly specify the IP address of
the pod.
Why?
Because IP address of Pod can be ephemeral.
You have a deployment that can create and remove pods.
The IP address keeps on changing, and this is the reason why the part of label and selectors proves
to be very useful.
Now let's say that there are 100 pods that has this label of role equals to app.
That means all of the 100 pods will be able to connect to this specific DB pod.
So this is one part.
Let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out from a demo perspective.
Now one thing again, this is a demo video.
We'll have a separate practical video where we are going to go ahead and discuss things in detail.
But before we do that, our basic concept related to network policy and how you can read them should
be clear.
So from a second tab, what I'm going to do, I'm going to connect to one of the ports.
Now before we do that we'll also do a kubectl get pods with the output of white so that we can see the
IP address.
All right.
Now what we are going to do we are going to connect to App Pod over here and see if App Pod can ping
the database pod.
So I'll say kubectl exec app pod.
And from here we'll try and ping the IP address associated with the database pod, which is this specific
one.
When I ping you see it is working as expected.
Now this is one part.
Now what we are going to do, we are going to connect to random port which does not have this role equals
to app.
And then we'll see whether random port can connect to the database port or not.
So now I will log out of this and I will connect to random port.
And we'll copy the same ping command over here.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll copy the same ping command.
And you see this time it is not really working.
Alright so using the labels and selectors you can go ahead and filter the traffic accordingly.
Now if this random port has this label of role equals to app, then the random port will also be able
to connect to the database port.
Let's also try it out.
So what we are going to do I am going to label the random port.
I'll say cube, CTL label port, random port.
And what was the role?
It is role equals to app.
And at this stage, as we know the ping does not work.
So we'll go ahead and add the label just to verify if I do kubectl get pods and I'll do show labels.
Now as we know the random pod also has this specific label.
And now you see automatically the random pod is able to communicate to the database pod.
I'll do a ctrl c.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood this specific part where pod selector is used.
Now the second part is related to namespace selector.
Now namespace selector is also quite useful.
So what.
It states that in this specific diagram allow pods from security namespace to connect to pods in prod
namespace.
So in prod namespace you have certain pods and what you have said.
All of the pods that are part of the security namespace should be able to connect to the pods in the
production namespace.
So here you are not primarily dealing with the labels associated with Pod, because it can happen that
pods in security namespace can have wide variety of labels.
So irrespective of going into pod labels, you can just specify the connection at a namespace level
as well.
So let's also try it out now.
Let's clear the screen.
Now if I do kubectl get namespace.
Currently I have two namespace production namespace and security namespace.
Now when you do a kubectl get network policy in the namespace of production, you have a network policy
with the name of namespace selector.
So let's also go ahead and read what exactly this network policy is all about.
I'll say kubectl describe net policy, the name of the network policy and the namespace of production.
So first it is important for us to be able to read it post which things will become very simple.
So let's read it.
So in the port selector you have none.
So what it basically means whenever you have it as none, it basically will apply to all of the ports
in the namespace.
So when I say kubectl get pods in the namespace of production, there is only one port that is running.
So in case if you do not have a pod selector here, that means all of the pods that are part of that
namespace will be selected by default.
This is one part.
All right.
So from here we can identify that this specific network policy of namespace selector is associated with
this specific pod.
Next is allow inbound traffic from namespace selector.
This.
So what it means any inbound traffic that comes to this pod.
If that traffic is from a namespace which has this specific label, it will be allowed.
Now how do we know what is the label associated with the security namespace.
Let's also find that out.
So when you do a cube CTL get namespace show labels, you will see that security namespace has this
specific label.
All right.
Now this automatically gets created.
You don't have to manually create a label.
So this specific label that you see over here is the same label that you see over here.
All right.
So when you read this policy it will become easier for you to understand.
And also note this part policy type is ingress.
This basically means it is a inbound policy and it is not really affecting the outbound traffic.
All right.
So this specific policy is only to control the inbound traffic that comes to the production port.
So now let's do one thing in the namespace of security.
We have a security pod that is available.
What we are going to do we are going to connect to this pod.
All right.
Oops.
We have to also specify the namespace of security once we are connected to the pod in a security namespace.
Now we are going to try to connect to the production pod over here.
So in order to do that, let's do one thing from a different tab.
Let's go ahead and also specify the output of wide so that we get the IP address of this production
pod.
So this is the IP address.
Now from the security pod we'll try and ping the IP address of the production pod.
You see it is working.
So this specific part is working.
Now what we are going to do we are going to connect to one more pod that is in a different namespace.
And from that port we'll try to see if the connection works.
All right so let's come out of this.
Now when you do kubectl get pods with the output of white, this is the default namespace.
Now we are going to connect to the random pod.
Again this is in a default namespace.
So I'll connect to the random pod.
And now we are going to make a ping request to the same IP address of the production pod.
And you see it is not really working.
Alright.
So I hope with this you understood this specific part of namespace selector.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you.
And in fact we were discussing it in the earlier slide as well, which states that by default, Kubernetes
allows all traffic between pods within a cluster.
Now, whenever we create a network policy, this network policy can be associated with a single pod.
It can be associated with multiple set of pods.
So what that means is that this specific network policy that we saw, This policy is associated with
the production pod.
And due to this network policy, the random pod in the default namespace is not able to connect to the
production pod.
Now, what happens if we remove the policy?
All right.
So when you do kubectl get net pole in the namespace of production this is the policy that affects the
incoming traffic.
Now in case if you remove this specific policy let's in fact do that in the namespace of production.
Now as soon as the policy is removed then the default will take place.
For example, at this stage there are no network policy that are part of the production namespace and
no network policy for this pod.
So this means the default approach will take place, which means all the pods will be able to communicate
to this production pod.
So if you try to ping now you see it is working.
All right.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you also understood what the namespace selector allows
us to do.
And the last important part is related to the IP block.
Now let's say that you want to define a rule which states that all of the pods that are part of the
production namespace, these pods should only be allowed to connect outbound to 8.8.8.8.
Apart from this specific IP.
The production pod should not be able to communicate with any other server across the internet or other
networks as well.
So this kind of setup is also possible using IP block.
So you can also make use of IP address for the ingress as well as egress connection.
Now generally one part to remember is that when you want to allow traffic from and to pods, it is better
not to use IP block.
Instead, you can use pod selector or namespace selector.
IP block is generally for other networks like internet, this proves to be useful.
So let's also have a quick demo on this.
So let's do one thing for this specific demo.
I have a specific namespace of testing that is available.
Now if you do cube CTL get network policy in the namespace of testing.
I have one network policy that is available.
And when you do a cube CTL describe network policy.
Let's add this policy name in the namespace of testing.
Let's read what it means.
Pod selector is none.
So that means it will apply to all of the pods that are part of the namespace.
Now let's also do kubectl get pods in the namespace of testing.
Now at this stage, since only one pod is there, this policy will be applicable to one pod.
If there are 100 pods, this policy will be applicable to 100 pods.
All right.
This is the first one.
Second one says states that not affecting ingress, traffic and policy type here is egress.
Egress means outbound.
So this policy is specifically for outbound connection.
And it is not restricting any inbound connection to this port.
So this is also easier to understand when you read it.
Third part is allow outbound traffic allow egress traffic to IP block Cidr 8888.
Now when you read it directly it will make sense.
Allow outbound traffic to 8888 and that's about it.
No other IP addresses are allowed here.
So let's also try it out.
So when I do cube CTL or let's do it from different tab.
When you do cube CTL exec test pod in the namespace of testing let's do a ping.
First we'll do a ping on google.com.
So here you see ping is not really working now.
In fact just for a better understanding will also connect to a random port that we had created, and
from here we'll do a ping on google.com.
So from the random port this is working.
Why?
Because there is no egress specific network policy which blocks the connection.
However, within here it is not really working well.
All right.
Now in a similar way, when you do a ping on eight, eight, eight, eight, it will work perfectly
well.
Why?
Because the egress traffic allows this in a similar way, just to ensure that we understand the topic
well.
When you do a kubectl.
Net poll on the namespace of testing.
If we remove this specific policy.
So I'll say kubectl delete network policy.
Let's copy this network policy in the namespace of testing.
Once this policy is removed now when you ping google.com You see it is working.
So from here we can conclude that it was indeed the network policy that is blocking the connection.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood at a high level overview what a pod selector, what a namespace selector
and what the IP block is used for.
Now before we conclude this video, a few more important pointers that needs to be noted.
First one is that not all of the Kubernetes network plugins support network policy.
So generally when a Kubernetes cluster is created, you also have to use the appropriate network plugins.
So some of the network plugins like calico and others it supports network policy.
While some other plugins like flannel do not support network policy.
Now generally one good thing is that if you are using a managed Kubernetes cluster, it can be Azure
Kubernetes Service or EKS based on AWS, etc., or even the DigitalOcean based Kubernetes cluster.
These clusters comes with the appropriate network plugins that support network policies.
However, it is still a good idea to check the appropriate documentation for your specific service to
confirm.
Sometimes we have seen that if students they create a cluster, maybe using cube ADM and they use some
plugins like flannel, etc., then even if you create network policy, it will not really come into
effect.
And then most of the time goes on.
Why exactly the network policy is not working.
So it is very important that if you are using a managed Kubernetes service, generally this network
policy will work, but still you can check the documentation for 100% confirmation.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about network policies.
Now again we are going to go in more depth related to this topic specifically from a practical point
of view.
But before that I wanted to ensure that the basic concept is clear so that the practical part can be
grasped quickly.
So with this, we will conclude today's video.

--- Structure of Network Policy ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now, before we start to write our own set of network policies in Kubernetes, first, it is important
for us to understand the structure of network policy.
If you understand the structure of network policy, then based on the requirement, you will be able
to easily create multiple set of network policies.
So what we are going to do as part of today's video, we are going to explore one of the network policies
that you see over here.
This network policy has multiple fields.
You have pod selector policy types, ingress egress etc..
So we are going to dissect this.
We are going to understand what each one of this means.
And once we understand the structure at a high level overview and see on what exactly it is trying to
do.
Then from the upcoming videos, we will start with the network policy practicals from basics.
Now, the first important part that needs to be understood as part of the policy is related to the basic
mandatory fields.
Now, irrespective of what kind of policy that you define few common fields that you will see.
First one is the API version.
Second one is the kind.
So the kind here is network policy.
The third important one is the metadata.
And inside the metadata you specify the name of the network policy that you create.
So this fields that you see over here this is not just related to network policy.
Even if you create a pod manifest file you will have to specify API version kind metadata, etc. just
the value associated with them will change.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the first part of the network policy that you see as part
of this diagram.
Now the next part is related to the specs section.
Now as part of the specs section you define a pod selector.
You define policy types.
And based on the policy type you have ingress and you have egress.
As we were discussing, ingress specifically means inbound.
Egress specifically means outbound.
So now let's go ahead and explore each one of them that we see over here.
Now, the first very important part here is the pod selector.
Now pod selector allows us to select the group of pods to which this specific network policy applies.
So based on this specific example what it states.
Attach this network policy to the pods that has a label of env equals to production.
So all of the pods that has this specific label in the namespace where this network policy gets created,
the policy will be associated with them.
The pods that do not have this label, the policy will not be associated with them.
All right.
So this is the first part of the policy.
Now at this stage in this diagram, we have not really specified whether policy restricts or allows
inbound or outbound rule, etc. at this stage we are just finalizing to which pods our network policy
will be associated to.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the highlighted Related part.
One interesting part here is that you can also define an empty port selector, something similar to
this.
Now you have just specified two curly braces.
Now in this setup, what happens is that an empty port selector selects all of the ports in the namespace.
So in case if you want to select all of the ports then this is useful.
And in case if you do not want to select all of the ports in a specific namespace, you only want to
select very specific ports.
Then you will have to use match labels.
Now the next important part is the policy types.
As we were discussing that network policy can be an inbound based policy.
It can be an outbound based policy.
So what is the policy type that you want to define.
Is what you add as part of policy type.
So in this specific case we are specifying policy type as both ingress as well as egress.
Now it is not compulsory to specify both of them.
You can also have an ingress specific policy or a egress specific policy.
Now, once you have specified the policy type of ingress and egress for each one, you also have to
specify the rule.
So for ingress policy over here you can use the combination of pod selector, namespace selector etc.
to define the rule.
So basically what it means is that this network policy is associated with Pod that has a label of environment
as production.
And now since you specified ingress from and then your specified pod selector env as security.
So here are few important part that you have to read.
First one is the pod selector.
So this applies the network policy to specific pod.
Second is the policy type.
In this case you have both ingress and egress.
Third is the ingress section where we are saying that ingress should be allowed from pods.
That has a label of environment as security.
So ultimately what this will do inbound traffic for Pod with a label of env of production will be allowed
from pod with the label of env of security.
Alright, so I hope this makes better sense.
Now again we'll have a separate practical video where we'll explore each one of them from absolute scratch.
But first we are trying to read it and then we'll implement it practically.
So now since we have also added a egress over here, now it is important for us to specify the egress
rule.
Now in here we have specified the egress rule.
And within here we have used IP block.
And in the IP block we have added a Cidr block.
So what this will do.
This will allow outbound traffic only to the IP address of 8888.
For the pods having label of env equals to production.
So this is how you can control both the inbound as well as outbound traffic for specific set of pods.
So let's do one thing just for a simplistic purpose, I also have this policy available.
You can find it from a GitHub page.
We'll try and apply it.
And then we'll describe the policy and we'll see on how easy or difficult it is to read it now from
our CP labs test folder.
I have a file called as first net dot YAML, and this is the exact policy that we saw as part of our
PPT.
So what we are going to do we are going to open this with our terminal.
We are going to create a network policy.
Before that you can just do a cube CTL get network policy.
At this stage there are no network policies that are applied.
This is good.
So now we'll go ahead and create a network policy which is the first network policy.
And now when you do cube CTL get net poll you see you have a network policy that is available.
Now let's go ahead and describe this network policy.
So I'll say cube CTL describe network policy.
We'll copy the name of the network policy and we'll add it over here.
So generally when you describe the network policy if you just read it it will be simple to understand
the entire workflow.
So first part as we were discussing that port selector.
So this network policy will apply to which ports.
So in this case it clearly states that this network policy will be associated with a port that has a
label of env equals to production.
This is first part.
Second is this states allow inbound traffic from port selector.
Env equals to security.
So this part also is easy to understand.
So any port that has this specific label these ports will be able to connect to the port that has this
specific label over here.
All right.
So this is one part.
Then since if you see the policy type is both ingress and egress.
So this part is related to ingress.
This part is related to egress.
So in egress what it is stating allow outbound traffic to Cidr block of 8888.
So only this specific IP address the port will be connecting to outbound.
Other than that, the connections will be blocked.
All right.
So what we are going to do, we are not going to test this policy by creating multiple set of pods,
etc..
We are going to have a separate video where we are going to explore each aspect of a network policy
in detail from Basic, so that it makes better sense.
However, before we do that, I just wanted to give you one of the example on how one of the complete
policy might really look like.
Now, again, I would not say that this is a complete policy because there are a lot of options.
For example, here we had added pod selector.
You also have namespace selector etc. that are available which will be exploring in the practical video.
However, this is a much more better policy which covers ingress and egress.
Now, before we conclude this video, I also wanted to emphasize on the from and to.
So generally in inbound you specify a from.
In outbound you specify two.
So at a high level.
Overview, as we are discussing, whenever you create an ingress rule you use from in egress rule,
you specify two.
Now when you have a from, it basically specifies the source of incoming traffic.
So this source can be other ports using labels and selectors.
It can be using namespaces.
Or it can be also be IP blocks.
And in two also the destination it can be other ports.
It can be namespaces or it can be IP blocks.
So in this specific screenshot we have used in the from we had used pod selector.
But you can also have namespace selector IP blocks.
Similarly for the egress over here we have used IP block.
But you can also have pod selector available over here.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the structure of the network policy.
Before we conclude this video let's go ahead and delete the network policy that we have created so that
in the practicals we can start from scratch.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Network Policies ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
So today is going to be a practical video associated with network policies.
So let's get started.
So the example number one is interesting.
What it states block all of the ingress and the egress traffic from a specific port or maybe a set of
ports.
Now if you look into this specific policy screenshot that you see over here, you have the API version
kind metadata and then you have the specs section.
The specs section is something that is the most important for us to understand.
Now within here you have a pod selector.
Now note that when you create a network policy, this network policy can be associated with one pod.
It can be associated with 100 pods.
So how does a network policy know to which pods it must be associated with is through the pod selector.
And then you have the policy types which is ingress and egress.
It is not necessary that policy must follow both of them.
It can also be a ingress policy or a egress policy.
It does not really matter.
All matters is what your requirements is.
Now, one very important part to remember is that in this policy, if you see, we have just said that
it is a ingress and egress based policy, we have not really defined any rules associated with each
of them.
So since no specific rules are defined for ingress and egress, Kubernetes by default will deny all
of the traffic for the ports that this network policy will get associated with.
So if you look into the overall workflow, if you have this pod, the ingress traffic to this pod will
be blocked by the network policy.
And similarly, if you have a pod, the egress traffic will also be blocked.
All right.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now within our K8's folder we have a file of base net dot YAML.
If you open this with vs code within here.
If I open this file you have three very important fields over here.
One is the API version.
You have a kind and you have the metadata.
So this part is also something that you can find from our GitHub page.
and we'll use this as a starting point.
So now let's create a file called as example one dot YAML.
And whatever content that we see as part of the base network policy I'll add it over here.
All right.
Now let's start with the first important part.
So under the spec section, the first important part that we have to define that this network policy
that we are writing to which part this network policy will get associated with.
So what I will say in the pod selector, I'll just leave it as empty.
So when you leave it as empty, it will be associated with all of the pods in the namespace where this
network policy will be created.
So this is the first part.
The second important part is whenever you define a network policy, you also have to define whether
this is going to be a ingress policy or a egress policy.
So let's say I specify that this policy is going to control both the inbound traffic and the outbound
traffic to the ports to which the policy will get associated with.
Alright, a very simple policy.
Let's go ahead and try it out now.
Let's open up the terminal.
And before we test the policy, when you do a kubectl get net poll, which is a short name for network
policy, currently there are no network policies that are available.
Now when you do a kubectl run let's say test pod.
And the image that we are going to use is this specific image over here.
So this image comes with ping utility as well as curl utility.
So we are going to use this image.
Now in case maybe at a later stage if there is no ping as part of this image.
So in the image I'll just say alpine hyphen curl.
And we'll specify a command of say sleep over here.
So it keeps running.
So when I do a kubectl get pods you have one port that is currently running.
This is great.
Now when you do a cube CTL exec on the test pod, we are connected.
And in this pod you have a ping utility and you have a curl utility.
Now again sometimes it happens that in the updated image some utility gets removed.
So in case if you do not see a ping utility you can check our GitHub page.
We would have updated the correct image whatever would be available at that time.
Now one thing as we are discussing, since there is no network policy by default, the traffic both
inbound and outbound will be allowed.
So now in a different tab, when we go ahead and we create a policy, let's go ahead and try it out.
Our network policy is created.
When you do a cube CTL get net poll we have our base network policy available.
And when you do cube CTL describe network policy.
Let's copy the name of this policy.
You can also read it.
So in this case, pod selector is none.
So basically, since this network policy is associated with the namespace of default, it will select
all of the pods that are running in this namespace.
Second is allowing ingress and egress traffic.
Now since both of them are none, the description clearly states selected pods are isolated for inbound
connectivity and isolated for outbound connectivity, so pods will not be able to connect outbound,
and other pods will not be able to connect to this pod.
So when I do a ping on google.com again you see it is not really working.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the example number one.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and delete this specific network policy that we have created.
And after we have removed when you try ping it is working great.
So just for a reference at a later stage you can just call it as example one.
So it becomes easier.
Now one more thing that I wanted to emphasize upon is that in the screenshot we have explicitly specified
namespace of production.
Now what this will do, it will create this network policy in the production namespace, and then all
of the pods that are in the production namespace that pods will be blocked for inbound as well as outbound
traffic.
So namespace again if you do not really specify, it will go to the default namespace.
So this is one point that needs to be noted.
Along with that, I have also added a small point to note related to the empty pod selector.
As we know, if it is empty, it means that the policy applies to all the pods in the namespace, because
the selector is empty, that will match all of the pods.
Now the example number two is to allow the ingress traffic.
Now this specific policy over here again it will allow all of the incoming traffic to the selected pods.
Now since here the pod selector is empty, it will select all of the pods and it will allow the incoming
traffic to these pods.
So in the ingress over here, you specify a curly braces and you do not really specify any rules.
So if it is empty, it will allow the ingress.
Traffic is something that needs to be noted.
So now if you look into the overall workflow it would look something like this.
You have a pod.
Since the pod selector is empty, it will select all of the pods in the namespace.
Ingress rule again is empty as we see over here, so it will allow all of the inbound connections policy
type.
This is ingress only.
So depending upon the requirement you can specify both ingress as well as egress.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So what I'm going to do I will create example hyphen two dot YAML.
What I wanted to share was will enhance this specific policy that we were discussing.
So let's copy the base manifest file.
We'll just call it as example two and little deviation from the screenshot to make it much more easier.
So in the spec section over here first is the pod selector.
We'll select all of the pods that are part of the namespace, and then you have the policy types in
the policy types.
We'll specify ingress and we'll also specify egress.
All right.
Now at this stage we know that if you specify ingress and egress as a policy type, but you do not really
define a rule, then by default network policy will have a deny rule.
So now we do not really want a deny.
So in a ingress based rule over here we'll specify a empty rule.
So if it is empty then it will allow all of the inbound connection is something that needs to be noted.
So I'll save this.
Now let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and do a cube CTL create.
Let's see what is the name.
Example hyphen two.
I'll say example hyphen two dot YAML.
All right.
You can also say cube ctl describe.
Net Paul.
Example hyphen two.
You can read it.
Pod selector is none.
This is good.
allow ingress traffic.
And this time the description here is different which states traffic not restricted by source.
Now for egress traffic you have a different description.
Selected pods are isolated for egress connectivity.
So now what will happen.
The pod to which this policy applies to incoming traffic will be allowed as part of this pod, but outgoing
traffic will be blocked.
So let's clear the screen.
Let's do a kubectl get pods over here we have a test pod that is running.
Let's create one more pod.
I'll say kubectl run.
Let's call it as random pod with the same image that we had used earlier.
And we'll run the sleep command so it keeps on running.
Great.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods over here we have two pods that are running.
So now what we are going to do as part of testing from random pod, we are going to ping the test pod
and we'll see whether the connectivity is there or not.
All right.
So in order to do that, I will just say kubectl get pods with output of white so that we get the IP
address and we'll quickly connect to our random pod.
And now we'll try to ping the IP address of the test pod.
Now this specific request is it an inbound request or is it an outbound request.
And the answer is it is a egress request which is an outbound request from the random pod.
And for the test pod, it is an inbound request.
Now when I press enter you see it is not really working.
Why?
It is not working?
Because we are making a egress request from our random pod.
Now, since we have not explicitly specified a egress rule, all of the egress traffic will be blocked.
And this is the reason why this ping connectivity will not really work.
Now also note that this specific connectivity will not work for the namespace in which the network policy
is created.
So just for an example, when I do a kubectl get namespace, we have a default namespace in which the
network policy is created.
All right.
This network policy is created in default namespace.
So it will only affect the ports that are part of this namespace and not the ports that are in a different
namespace.
So to demonstrate this, let's assume that I have a kubectl create namespace.
Let's just call it as a testing namespace.
And in the testing namespace, we are going to create a random pod with the image of alpine hyphen curl.
And we'll run the sleep command.
Oops, we forgot to specify the namespace.
Let's press enter.
All right.
So now let's clear the screen.
When you do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of testing.
So this namespace over here again does not really have a network policy.
So this pod is free to make the request.
Egress.
So now if we'll connect to this pod.
And from here, if we make a ping request to the IP address of the test pod.
You see, it is working perfectly well.
Alright, so I hope with this you understood the example number two as well.
Now the example number three is where we are going to target a specific pod instead of targeting all
of the pods in a namespace.
Now if you'll see in the pod selector, instead of having a curly braces that targets all of the pod,
this time we are explicitly using a match labels and we are saying role as suspicious.
So what this is going to do, it is going to target a pod that has this specific label, and all other
pods that are part of the namespace.
These pods will not be targeted.
Now, once this specific pod is targeted, it will block both the inbound connection and the egress
connection associated with this port.
And sometimes this is even used quite extensively in production environments.
Sometimes what happens is that you suspect that a specific server is compromised.
In such case, you have a firewall rule that will block all of the inbound and outbound connections
for that specific server.
So this is what the network policy is trying to replicate.
So let's also go ahead and try it out now just for simplicity what we are going to do.
In fact let's log out from the pod.
Let's delete the network policy that we had created earlier which is example two.
So now let's go back to our base network policy.
We'll create example three.
We'll add it over here.
Let's also refer to as example three policy.
All right.
Now within here we'll specify spec section.
And in the spec section we'll specify port selector.
Now as we know this time for pod selector, we do not really want all of the pods to be targeted.
We only want one specific pod to be targeted.
And this is where the match labels comes into picture.
Now again, you don't really have to remember all of this.
Everything is part of the documentation.
All you need to know on how you can fetch the respective data from the documentation page.
For example, if you look into the network policies documentation, the documentation is quite extensive.
There are a lot of examples that you see over here.
So from the example you have to use the appropriate field.
For example you have match labels that you see over here.
You can just copy this in case if you do not remember this.
So in the pod selector you can specify match labels.
And within here you can specify the label let's say role as suspicious.
This is one part.
And then you can specify the policy type.
I'll say ingress egress.
Now, since we are not really specifying rule for ingress and egress, all of the ingress and egress
traffic will be blocked.
For whom?
For the pod that has this specific label.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Let's do a cube CTL create example hyphen three dot YAML.
Now when you do a cube CTL get network policy.
Our policy is created.
Now at this stage we do not really have any pod.
In fact you can do show labels.
We do not really have a pod with a role of suspicious.
So in fact let's go ahead and create one.
I'll say cube CTL run suspicious pod with the image of Alpine Curl.
And we'll again use sleep over here.
All right.
Now what we want for this specific pod only we want to isolate the traffic before we isolate the traffic.
Go ahead and test whether the ingress and egress connections are working.
So what we are going to do for the random port that we are connected to, let's go ahead and fetch the
IP address of the suspicious port over here.
And currently the connectivity is there.
So now what we are going to do we are going to apply the network policy.
Before we do that let's go ahead and connect to that suspicious port from a different tab.
So this time let's just change it to suspicious.
And let's do a ping on google.com.
Now at this stage it is working.
So let's go ahead and create the network policy.
Did we create the network policy I don't remember.
Let's see.
In fact the network policy is created.
So the reason why ping is working because the port does not really have this specific label.
So now we are going to label this port.
I'll say cube CTL label pod.
The name of the port.
It was suspicious port.
And what is the label?
I'll say roll is equal to suspicious.
Before we do that, currently you see it is working.
Let's label this port.
And now if you see the pink connection is not really working at this stage.
So our network policy has come into effect.
And both the inbound as well as the outbound traffic for this port will be blocked.
Now in the example number four, what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and allow traffic
based on port selectors.
For example you have a port with a role of database.
This port will allow inbound traffic from any port with a role of app, but any other port with different
role.
The traffic will be denied.
So we want to implement a network policy something similar to this.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now from the CLI let's go ahead and delete the example policy number three.
And let's create an example.
Policy number four.
All right.
We'll go ahead and we'll copy the base over here.
And then let's create a policy with a different name.
And let's start.
So in the spec section over here.
First thing is the pod selector.
Now within here we want this network policy to be associated with a pod which has this role of database.
So I'll say match labels.
And within here I'll say role equals to database.
Then this policy is more concerned towards the inbound connectivity for this specific pod.
So just for an example what you can do policy types you can say it is a ingress policy for this specific
pod.
This is one part.
Now in the ingress over here in the ingress if you remember we either use from or we use to from goes
inside ingress to.
Goes inside egress.
Now, as we're discussing, you don't really have to remember this.
You will get some kind of example as part of network policies.
So if you see in the ingress you have a from block you have a IP block.
Now again this is not a policy where IP needs to be added.
But inside the from over here we are more interested in the pod selector.
So what you can do inside from you can specify from and then you can specify pod selector again.
And which pods you want to allow for inbound connectivity.
You want this pod with a role of app.
So you can say role equals to app.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood the workflow.
Now one small difference here.
You can just specify something like this.
All right.
And just align things correctly.
Directly.
So again, note that this port selector is different from this spot selector.
This is a global port selector to which the network policy will be associated with.
This is a port selector added inside the ingress.
So ultimately all of the ports that has this specific label will be able to connect to the port that
has the label of role equals to database.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and we'll create a network policy from example number four.
All right.
So at this stage we are getting some error related to that.
What it says unknown field spec ingress from pod selector rule.
So within there we made a small mistake.
What is the mistake.
We forgot to specify match labels.
Now you can also go ahead and refer to the documentation if you don't remember.
So all you have to do is you have to add a match labels.
So within here let's add a match labels.
And within here you can specify this.
All right, let's try and run this policy.
We'll go ahead and we'll do a cube CTL get network policy.
At this stage we have this network policy available.
So to demonstrate it what we are going to do.
Let's go ahead and do kubectl get pods with show labels.
We have certain pods that are available.
In fact let's go ahead and remove the pod that we do not really need at this stage.
Great.
So now what we are going to do just for simplicity, we are going to create one more pod.
Let's just call it as app pod with the same image of Alpine Curl, and I'll just specify sleep.
Also for this.
And in a similar way, we are going to create a database pod with the same image.
Now similar to this workflow database pod will add this specific label of role equals to database and
app.
Pod will have this label role equals to app.
And then we'll test the connectivity from here.
And we'll also test the connectivity from other ports.
So now let's do a cube CTL label pod.
Database pod.
And what is the label role equals to database.
All right.
Now before we proceed with other steps let's do kubectl get pods with output of.
Why'd you have a database pod over here.
So currently.
Let's go ahead and connect to one of the pods.
Let's connect to the test pod that we have created.
And from here we are going to ping the database pod IP address.
And as expected you see it is not really working.
So now what we are going to do we are going to connect to the app pod.
Let's do that.
And now before we do a ping we'll go ahead and add a label.
I'll say cube CTL label pod app pod.
And what is the label.
Let's verify.
Label is role equals to app.
So I'll say role equals to app.
All right.
And now when you try to do a ping what was the IP address of the database port.
It is this one.
You see it is working perfectly well.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the example four of port selector.
The next example is related to the namespace selector where you have multiple namespaces.
For example, in prod namespace you only want connections from the pods from the security namespace.
You do not really want pods from testing namespace or default namespace to connect to the pods in production
namespace.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
Now what we are going to do.
We'll go ahead and delete the network policy.
Example hyphen four.
And now let's create one more policy.
Example hyphen five.
This is related to the namespace selector.
So we'll copy the base one.
Let's change the name to exemplify.
And now in the spec section in the port selector, if you look into the diagram you want to target all
of the ports in the production namespace.
So we'll just leave it empty.
And also note that this network policy must be associated with a port in production namespace.
So what you need to do in here you have to specify the namespace.
You can just specify a namespace of production.
So this will only target all of the ports in the production namespace.
And let's say policy types.
We'll just specify policy type of ingress.
Since we only want inbound connection from the ports in the security namespace.
And for the inbound connection over here in the ingress this time we'll have a from and within here
instead of port selector that we had used for the earlier example, port selector will not work.
This time we have a namespace selector.
So in the example.
Also, there are multiple examples that you see over here.
You can just search for namespace selector.
Whatever example that you get, you have a namespace selector.
And then you can specify the match labels and the label here.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So in the namespace selector here I'll say namespace selector.
And within your similar to the earlier example we are going to use match labels.
And within the match labels.
This time you have to specify the label associated with the namespace.
So in order to do that you have to first ensure that the namespace is available.
At this stage, you do not have the production namespace.
You can quickly create a namespace of production if you run the command again, this is the production
namespace.
Now you have to see what is the label associated with that namespace.
So you can say kubectl get namespace show labels.
And this time if you see for the production namespace you have this specific label.
So we are going to go ahead and add this.
So within here I'll just go ahead and add this and I'll save the change.
Now let's go ahead and try creating a policy from example five dot YAML.
So this time where we are getting an error, it is in the ingress from namespace selector match labels
of type map string.
Now in the policy there is one small change that you have to do something similar to how we did not
add an equal to over here.
Similarly, within here you can just remove the equal to and you can specify something similar to this.
All right.
Once I've done that let's go ahead and try creating the policy.
The policy is created.
Where is this policy created.
If you do a cube CTL get net Paul it is not created in this namespace.
However if you do cube CTL get network policy in the namespace of production.
The policy is created over here.
Now in this policy, since pod selector is empty, it will be associated with all of the pods.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll say kubectl run prod hyphen pod with the image of nginx.
And we'll run the sleep command over here.
But this pod, it needs to be created from the namespace of production.
And also let's just use a common image for all I'll say alpine hyphen curl.
All right.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of production, we have a prod pod that is running.
So if you want to test this entire network policy, what you will need you will need one more pod.
In fact, we did a small mistake because ingress should be allowed not from the production namespace
but from the security namespace.
All right.
So this is a small mistake.
Let's change it to security I'll save this.
Let's go ahead and delete the network policy with example five and let's recreate it.
So at this stage we have a prod namespace with one pod.
So now we'll create a security namespace with one more pod.
And then we'll test the connectivity.
So I'll just create a security namespace.
And this same command that we had used to create a production pod.
We'll use this to create one more pod in the security namespace.
And let's just call it as security hyphen pod.
I'll clear the screen.
Now when you do kubectl get pods in the namespace of security, we have one pod.
Now in a different tab we'll do a cube CTL exec on the security pod in the namespace of security.
And from here we'll try and make a ping connectivity to the pod in the production namespace.
So I'll say kubectl get pods output of wide in the namespace of production.
So this is the IP address.
Let's go ahead and do a ping.
You see it is working now to ensure that our network policy works.
What we are going to do from a pod in the default namespace.
Any pod you can choose.
Let's just use a test pod.
From the test pod in the default namespace.
You can again try to ping the production pod and see if it is working.
If everything is correct in terms of network policy, this connection will not be allowed.
And the last example, number six for today's video is associated with IP block.
Now what you want is that all of the pods in the production namespace, this pods in the outbound connectivity
you only want one IP 8888.
No other connectivity should be present.
So this is the use case that you want to implement.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
So let's use example six.
We'll copy the base code from the base example.
Let's just call it as example six.
All right.
Let's go ahead and create a policy.
We'll close other tabs.
Now this policy the pod selector will just say all.
Since we only want egress connectivity to one IP, the policy type will specify egress.
And then within here in the egress section over here.
This time we are not going to make use of from we are going to make use of two.
Now in two, since we want to specify the IP address, you can look into the documentation where you
can search for IP block.
So this is the basic syntax to IP block and the Cidr.
So let's say two IP block and inside IP block you specify Cidr of 8888 slash 32.
All right let's save this.
And also you can look into this specific use case.
This only applies to the production namespace.
So now what you can do here, you can say namespace or production.
And I'll save this.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create this specific policy.
Let's verify the network policy in the production namespace.
In fact we had not deleted the earlier policy.
Let's go ahead and do that.
All right.
So we should only have one policy at this stage.
So this simplifies our testing.
Now let's go ahead and connect to the pod in the production namespace.
Let's verify what was the pod name.
It is prod hyphen pod.
And also the namespace is production.
Oops.
We made a small mistake.
All right.
Now for this specific pod.
When it tries to connect to say, eight, 8888.
This connection will be allowed and if it tries to connect to any other website apart from 8888, you
see it is not really working.
Great.
So a little longer video, but I really wanted to ensure that the concept related to network policy
is understood because this is an important topic when it comes to the production environment, and also
from the exam perspective.
Now, we did discuss it in quite detail because generally I have seen that when you also sit for interviews
related to Kubernetes, network policy is one of the areas that the interviewer might test you against.
And if this specific concept is clear, then it will become very easy for you to implement the network
policy.
It will help you in exam.
It will help you in production environment.
It will also help you during the interviews.
All right.
So this is the reason why a video is a little lengthy but it is worth it.
So that's about it.
You can also go ahead and remove all of the resources that were created as part of this practical.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Network Policies - Except, Port and Protocol ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about the flexibility and additional options that you
can add as part of your overall network policy based on wide variety of use cases.
So the field that we are going to target is the accept port and protocol.
So we are going to look into it at a high level overview.
So generally when we write or create network policies we should know at what level of customizations
can the rules be off.
So this is the reason why we are going to explore these specific fields.
The first one is the accept field as part of the network policy.
And it allows you to define exceptions to a broader rule.
For example, let's say that you are allowing an ingress from an IP block.
So this is a bigger IP block like 172 17 zero zero 16.
Now from this specific bigger IP block, in case if you do not want connections from certain set of
cidrs like one 7217 one zero 24 these kind of exceptions, you can add based on the requirement.
The second area that we need to understand is related to port and protocol.
Now in this example you have an egress that allows connection from the port towards the IP block where
the Cidr of this range.
Now within here you have also specified port of say 32,000 to 32 768.
And then you have also explicitly added the protocol of TCP.
So based on the exact requirement this kind of flexibility is also available.
Now just for simplicity I also have a network policy that is already created.
So let's go ahead and explore this.
So this specific network policy over here the name is accept.
And this is where the exception comes into picture.
Where ingress allows connection from this specific range of IP addresses.
And you have added an exception of this specific range.
Now just at a high level overview, we are going to go ahead and create the policy to ensure that it
works.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And now when you do a cube CTL describe network policy of except you can go ahead and read about it.
So now as part of the ingress traffic over here, since the policy type is ingress, if you see ingress
is allowed from the IP block with the Cidr of this.
And also there is an exception of this specific range.
All right.
So this is one area that you should be aware that this is possible.
The second one as we are discussing is related to port and protocol.
So over here we have a egress based policy type.
And egress connection is allowed on this specific range.
And this is the port where it is allowed.
You have a protocol of TCP and this is the range of port.
So from this port 32,000 to 32 768.
So this is the entire range of ports to which the connections will be allowed.
It is not necessary to specify the entire range.
You can also specify one specific port to which the connections can be allowed.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So when I say cube CTL create hyphen f port hyphen proto dot YAML.
And let's explore this specific policy.
I'll just add the name of the policy.
And within your since this is a egress traffic and at this stage, one point to note is that here the
two port, it is just showing as 32,000.
So this is something that you can consider to be a limitation of the describe command.
It does not really show the end port very well.
So if you really want to verify if the input is configured correctly you can just say cube CTL get.
Net policy copy the policy name, you can do a output of YAML and then whatever output that you get
just verify in the egress port you should have the input, you should have the port and you should have
the protocol.
Now along with that you can also get the details associated with the examples that we took as part of
today's video in the official documentation.
Now if you see over here in one of the examples over here.
You have the IP block with an exception.
And then you also have port protocol.
In this case you have an example of only one port.
However, in case if you try to find one more example where n port is present, you see this is a very
similar example that we saw 32,000 to 32 768.
So this is the range of port that you can add as part of the policy.
Now again there are multiple examples that you can explore.
The documentation is quite good.
Now along with that, one more thing that I wanted to show you is that when it comes to the protocol,
the primary protocol that are supported, you have a TCP, you have a UDP, these are the two important
ones.
And you also have the HTTP protocol.
Great.
So just for a reference, I have also added a screenshot of the policy that we have explored.
So during the revision time it will become easier.
That's a very high level overview about the possibilities based on which the network policies can be
created.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- Scheduling Pods without a Scheduler ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we will be discussing about static pots.
Now, we already know that a scheduler is responsible for scheduling a pod on a given worker node.
So when you do a cube, Ctl run, which basically creates a deployment, then where will your pod be
assigned?
Because there can be hundreds of worker nodes.
So decision on where a pod can run is decided by the scheduler.
Now, once a node is decided by the scheduler, your API server communicates with the Cubelet, and
Cubelet in turn takes care of running the pod.
We have already seen this specific architecture in the section one.
So you have a cube scheduler, you have a cube API server.
The cube scheduler here is responsible for scheduling a pod on a given worker node and your cube API
server.
It connects with the kubelet of various worker nodes and it can inform the Cubelet that you need to
run a specific pod.
So this is the basic architecture that we already know.
Now your cubelet basically it takes the information from the API server related to the pod specification
and it creates the pod accordingly.
So it is not necessary for Cubelet to always make use of the instructions from the cube API server.
So let's say that this specific left side component is not present at all.
So the connectivity between the Cubelet and your cube API server is not present due to some reason.
So that is the scenario here and you want to schedule a pod on this specific worker node.
All right.
So now what you can do is you can directly tell that cubelet that hey, can you run a specific pod?
So Cubelet will take your instruction which you have told to the cubelet directly without the cube API
server and Cubelet will take that instruction and it will run that pod.
All right.
So that specific aspect is also referred as a static pod.
So let's do one thing.
Let's jump into the practical and understand this aspect in a better way.
So I'm in my terminal and basically I have a Linux server which has a mini cube installed.
Now, if you quickly do a mini cube status, you see our mini cube is working perfectly and if you do
a cube, Ctl get nodes.
You have one node which is currently available.
Now coming back to the diagram here, so our consideration here is that we have one node which is available
and that node basically also has a cubelet running.
So if you quickly verify you can do a system Ctl status on Cubelet and currently you see that our Cubelet
is running perfectly.
Now we already know that Cubelet is basically responsible for communicating with the API server, taking
the details and then coordinating with the Docker daemon to go ahead and run a specific pod.
So now what we'll do is we'll manually tell Cubelet to run a specific static pod without API server.
So we'll not be using the kubectl at all.
Now within the kubelet you see that Kubelet has basically started.
So you have your kubelet here and it has started with various options over here.
Now one of the options basically informs kubelet to run your pod dot yaml file from a specific directory.
Now if you look into the drop in here, all the configurations are stored in the Kubelet dot service
dot directory specifically related to startups.
So let's go ahead and open up this specific directory.
And if you do, you have a file called cube adm dot conf.
Now if you open this file, you see that within the exec start there are multiple options with which
your kubelet has started.
Now one option that we are more interested here is the pod manifest path.
So what pod manifest path tells kubelet is that any Yaml file which is within this specific path which
is Kubernetes manifest.
Go ahead and run that specific Yaml file.
All right, so this is the one that we are interested in.
So let's go to Etsy, Kubernetes manifest.
Now, within a year you will see that there are multiple Yaml files which are currently available.
So if you want to tell Cubelet to run a specific static pod, you can define your Yaml file within this
specific directory.
So let's go ahead and create a Yaml file called as Cape Labs hyphen pod yaml.
And I'll basically paste a simple pod definition over here.
All right, let's go ahead and save this.
So now what Cubelet does is that Cubelet regularly scans this specific directory and now after scanning
it would have found out that there is a new file called as Cape Labs hyphen pods dot yaml which has
a simple pod definition.
So what cubelet will do?
Cubelet will go ahead and apply this specific yaml file.
So now if you do a kubectl get pods.
You see, you have one pot which automatically got created called as labs pod hyphen minikube.
So this was directly started by Kubelet without getting any information from the API server.
So it scanned for the manifest and it deployed the Yaml file that you had told it to do.
So now if you want to go ahead and delete the pod again, you can make use of a similar approach.
You can go ahead and remove your labs hyphen pod dot yaml file.
And now when you do a kubectl get pods, currently you see there are no resource found.
So by specifying your Yaml file within your manifest is one of the ways in which you can tell to kubelet
to go ahead and run your pods.
So this is also referred as a static pod.
Or you can also say that running a pod without a scheduler.
Now do remember that although static pods is one of the ways in which you can launch it, but you will
not really get a lot of advantage.
Let's say that there are a lot of health checks which are performed.
You can make use of daemonset that if your worker node goes down, then the Kubernetes will automatically
relaunch the pod in a different worker node.
So all of those configurations you will miss if you are making use of a static pod.
So that's the high level overview about static pods.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Taints and Tolerations ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an interesting topic of taints and tolerations.
So let's get started.
So at a high level overview, when we discuss about taint taint, whenever it is added to a Kubernetes
node, it allows us to repel certain pods from that specific node.
Let's understand this with an example where you have a worker node one, you have a worker node two
and you have a pod one.
Now this pod one needs to be scheduled.
So it needs to be running in either worker node one or a worker node two.
Now let's assume that in the worker node one you have a taint that gets applied.
So it is something similar to this.
It is more like a repellent.
Now once a taint gets applied to a node and when Pod tries to schedule itself on this specific node,
this part will be blocked.
Why?
Because there is a taint that is added as part of the node.
This is like a repellent.
Now, since taint is added to the worker node one, the pod cannot run over here.
So in this case, the pod needs to be scheduled in the worker node to where there is no taint applied.
Now the next part of today's video is associated with Tolerations.
So what this states that in order for the pod to be scheduled in a node which has a taint, this pod
will need a special pass.
And this special pass is referred to as a toleration.
For example, if pod one is determined that it needs to run in the worker node one only, then Kubernetes
says that okay, if you are so determined, I'll allow you to run in the worker node one, but you will
need this special pass.
Only after this special pass, you will be able to run in the worker node that has the appropriate taint.
Alright, so I hope with this at a high level overview from a theoretical point of view, this two topics
make sense.
Let's go ahead and look into it from the practical perspective as well.
Now for today's video I have a have a cube ADM based cluster that I have created, and this cluster
has certain nodes.
One is the main control plane node where the Kubernetes components are running.
And then you have the two worker node worker zero one and worker zero two.
Now for today's practical just for simplicity, to understand things in a better terms whenever you
create a deployment, let's in fact do that.
So I'll create a deployment from the image of nginx and the replicas.
I'll set it to five.
Now what will happen is when you do a kubectl get pods with output of wide, you will see that some
pods are scheduled in the worker zero one node, and some pods are scheduled in the worker zero two
node.
So the pods are distributed across all of the worker nodes that are available.
Now the question that comes is why is the pod not scheduled in this specific node?
Because this is also a node.
And the pod can in fact run on this node note also.
But still, the pods are not scheduled over here.
And the reason why the pods are not running in this node is because there is a taint that is applied
on the node.
All right.
So now the question that comes is how do I know that a node has a specific taint or not.
Let's find that out.
Now in order to see the taint it is very simple.
You can just do a cube CTL describe node followed by the name of the node over here.
And this will show you if there are tests that are applied at a node level.
Now if we have to see it let's go a bit up.
You see in the taints over here there is one taint that is applied over here.
And due to this taint the pods are not getting scheduled.
So is it compulsory that no pod will get scheduled as part of this control plane node?
The answer is no.
If the pod has this special pass of toleration, it can schedule itself to the node as well.
So let's do one thing at this stage.
First let's go ahead and look into how we can add a taint to a specific node.
We look into what exactly is the meaning of this taint.
And then we'll look into the aspects of tolerations.
Now, in order to define a taint for a node, the command is very simple.
You can use the kubectl taint node command and add the appropriate taint for that node.
For example you have kubectl taint node.
You specify the name of the node and then you add the appropriate taint.
Now when we discuss about taint it consists of a key a value which is optional, and the effect.
So here you have a key.
You have a value.
And this part over here is the effect.
The effect is very important in a taint.
So first let's go ahead and discuss about the effect post which will be looking into it from the practical
perspective.
Now when we discuss about effect there are three important effects that you should know.
One is the no schedule.
Prefer.
No schedule, no execute.
First one is the no schedule.
It prevents scheduling of new ports on the node unless they tolerate the taint.
So when we discuss about unless they tolerate the taint, it basically means it should have the appropriate
toleration.
When a node has this specific taint, new ports will not be created on that specific node unless they
have a toleration.
Second one is prefer no schedule.
So this is like more softer.
So it tries to avoid scheduling new ports on the node, but it does not enforce it strictly.
And third is no execute which affects existing ports.
So the ports that are already running on that specific node will be evicted.
And it also prevents new ports from being scheduled.
So let's go ahead and look into it from the practical perspective.
Now if you look into the taint that was added to a control plane node, it will make a better sense.
So as we are discussing, a taint can consist of a key, a value and a effect.
so value part is optional.
So you can consider this to be key.
And this is the effect.
Now since the effect is no schedule we know that it will prevent scheduling of new ports on that node
unless and until there is a toleration involved.
So let's do one thing.
At this stage, we know that there are certain ports that are scheduled in the worker zero one and the
worker zero two.
So let's go ahead and delete this specific deployment.
And what we are going to do on the worker node one.
On this specific worker node we are going to add a tint.
And then we'll see on the effect when new set of ports are getting created.
So at this stage just to show you when I do a cube CTL describe node worker zero one.
If you will see in the tents over here, there are no taints that are applied.
And this is the reason why the ports are also getting scheduled without any issues.
So now let's go ahead and add a tint.
So I'll say cube CTL tint node.
The name of the node and the tint that you want to apply.
You can say key equals to value.
As we know value is optional.
And then the effect let's say no schedule.
Once you have added a tint when you do a cube CTL describe node, just verify that the appropriate tint
is added.
And it is the most important part whenever you add a tint is this part which is the effect based on
the effect, the overall action will be taken by the scheduler.
Since we have added a tint now, if we go ahead and create the deployment again with five replicas,
and when you do a kubectl get pods with the output of white, you see all of the pods are running in
the worker node zero two.
None of the pods were scheduled in the worker node zero one, and we know the answer behind this.
So now that we that we understand the basic of taint.
The next important part that we need to understand is the toleration and how we can define it as part
of the manifest file.
Now, defining a toleration is very simple.
So in your pod manifest file in the pod spec over here you can specify toleration.
And in the toleration you have three important components key operator effect.
And you can also add a value.
So key that you add in the toleration it generally must match to the key that you add as part of the
taint.
This is one part you have a operator of exist effect of no schedule.
So what this means if a node has a key that exists with the effect of no schedule, this is a special
pass of toleration.
This pod is allowed to be scheduled in that specific node.
Alright, so this is what toleration is all about.
Now when we discuss about the structure of toleration, you have a key.
You have a value.
value.
Also you can make use of it.
Effect.
Effect again is very important.
And you have a operator.
Now in operator you have two equal and exist.
So when you have a equal over here the toleration matches.
If the key and values are equal and exist is much more simpler.
Toleration matches if the key exists regardless of the value.
So value part is not really checked.
Now when you look into the Kubernetes documentation of taints and toleration, you have quite good examples.
This is one of the example that we had tried practically, where we add a taint to a specific node.
Now the second important part is the toleration.
Now there are two examples of toleration.
One is equal.
So it checks if key one and the value one matches the taint, and only if it matches, then this will
act as a special pass.
This one is much more simpler, where it just verifies if this key exists with the effect, and if it
is, then this toleration will act as a special pass.
So what we are going to do, we are going to test the toleration part as well.
So I will just delete the deployment.
Let's clear the screen.
We'll recreate the deployment but this time with a manifest file.
So I'll say dry run client output of YAML.
And I'll save it to deployment hyphen toleration dot YAML.
Now in this specific file we are going to add the toleration as we know it gets added as part of the
spec.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll just remove the unnecessary part over here.
So we'll align it with the container.
I'll say toleration.
And within here the key must match the key that we have in our case the key that we added in.
It was just simple key.
Then we'll specify operator.
We'll use the simple operator of exist key.
Also let's just put it in quoted string.
Same here.
And then the effect of no schedule.
All right, so this will act as a special pass for the worker zero one considering that this part is
present as part of taint.
I'll save this.
Once this is done, let's go ahead and create deployment from this file.
And now when you look into the pods over here, now you see these pods.
Some of them are in worker zero two and some of them are in worker zero one as well because of the toleration.
Alright.
So I hope with this practical, the concept of taint and toleration makes better sense now.
Now, before we conclude, I also wanted to emphasize on some of the effects over here.
No schedule effect is something that we understand that if we have it, then the pods will not be scheduled
unless and until there is a toleration.
There is one more very important effect of no execute which is used in many scenarios.
So first we'll implement it.
Then we'll look into the use cases where it will be useful.
So.
No.
Execute evicts existing pod and prevents new pods from being scheduled on the node.
So what we are going to do on the worker zero one, we are going to add one more taint, this time with
the effect of no execute.
So I'll say cube CTL taint node worker zero one.
This time will not have a key value just for an example.
I'll just specify key one.
And then I'll say no execute.
All right.
Now when you do a cube CTL describe node worker zero one you can verify the taint.
This time.
You see this is the taint of no execute.
Now when you have this specific taint that gets added.
Now when you do a cube CTL, get pods with the output of wide.
You will notice that whatever pods that were present in the worker zero one, all of the pods have been
removed and new set of pods.
You see this, this and this.
These are the new set of pods that the deployment has created in the worker node.
Zero two.
Now the question that comes is why do you want to evict the existing pods that are running as part of
the worker node?
And the important answer here, in fact let's do a cube CTL get nodes.
So here we had added a no execute.
So the important answer here is related to maintenance.
So let's say that this specific worker node is going in maintenance.
And in maintenance.
You know that if pods are running and if they are getting production traffic they can be impacted.
So this is the reason why in case if you know that a specific node is going into a maintenance, you
do not really want your production pods to be running there.
And this is the reason why you add a taint of no execute on the node and after the maintenance has been
done, because during maintenance the worker node can also be restarted.
So after your maintenance has been done and you are sure that this node is now ready to host ports,
then what you do, you go ahead and you simply remove the appropriate taint.
So let's also go ahead and look into it.
So let's say kubectl describe node worker zero one.
Now you can also remove the taint of a node.
So at this stage there are two teens that were added.
So in order to remove the taint you can copy the taint.
And then you can say kubectl taint node.
The command is very similar.
All you have to do is you have to add a hyphen at the end.
So at this stage we forgot to mention the name of the node.
The name of the node was worker zero one.
And you see it says untainted.
Similarly we had one more taint which was of key equals to value.
And it was no schedule.
And this has also been removed.
Now if you do a cube CTL describe, you see there are no trains and this worker node is now ready to
run new set of pods whenever available.
Now before we conclude, one more pointer that I wanted to share is that in our video associated with
cube ADM, whenever we set a cube ADM cluster, one of the steps that we perform over here, if you
notice, is to remove a taint.
So this is the taint that we are removing from the control plane node.
In fact, let me show you.
So when I say cube CTL get nodes this is the control plane node.
When you say cube CTL describe node cube adm two.
Just for an example, this node has certain taint that are available and you see it is no schedule.
So new pods will not be scheduled.
Now this is good from production perspective because you do not really want your application pods to
be running in the same node where your control plane components are present.
Now, the reason why we use this specific part to remove this taint is because of testing.
Now generally, in fact, in most of the cases we have to learn Kubernetes, but we have to keep our
cost low.
So you do not really want multiple set of worker nodes to be created for your testing environment.
What you want as part of your testing environment you have one server.
This server can act both as a control plane and it can act as a worker node also.
So in this node itself you can go ahead and create your application pods.
You can do all of your testing.
And this is the reason why we remove the taint.
So that one pod by itself is good enough for most of the practical scenarios.
However, in production environments, you should not remove the taint and you will have a dedicated
separate worker nodes where your application pods will be running.
Great.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Editing Existing Kubernetes Resources ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about editing the existing Kubernetes resources that are
created as part of your cluster.
Now it can happen that you have multiple set of resources that are already created and are running since
a long time as part of your Kubernetes cluster.
For example, you have pod that is running.
You have Configmap that is created with multiple set of key value pairs, etc. now generally in larger
environments it can happen that you might want to modify the configuration of the existing Kubernetes
objects after their creation.
So for example, Configmap has certain key value pair.
You want to modify this key value pair from config map here.
Or pod might have certain labels certain annotations.
And you want to modify all of this.
So in such cases if you want to modify the existing Kubernetes objects that are already created in such
cases, there are two primary ways in which you can edit the configuration.
One is through the kubectl edit command.
Second is through the kubectl patch command.
Now note here, just for reference, you have port, but it can be any other objects like deployments.
It can be configmaps, secrets, etc..
So these are the two primary approaches.
Let's go ahead and discuss about it.
Now the first approach is through the kubectl edit command.
Now let's say that you want to edit something as part of the pod.
You might want to add new labels, remove labels, add annotation, etc..
So what you can do you can run the kubectl edit command followed by the resource in this case pod and
the name which is test pod.
Now what this will do is that it will go ahead and open the resource manifest in your default editor.
Again, it depends upon the operating system.
If you are running this in Linux, it will open it through vim.
If you have nano that is the default it will open it through nano.
Now here it is opening through notepad.
Why?
Because I am running this command as part of the windows system.
So once the resource manifest is opened you see, you are getting the entire manifest.
You can go ahead and modify the field that you would require and you can save this.
And this will affect the resource that is created as part of the cluster.
So this is the first approach.
Now one of the downsides of this approach is that you have to manually do it.
So in case let's say that there are 100 pods.
And for all of the 100 pods, you want to create some form of automation script.
So in such case when you do cube CTL edit the default editor opens, you manually edit it, save it,
etc. this takes a lot of time.
So there is also one more better way that can be used as part of the automation.
And this is through the cube CTL patch command.
So in the screenshot if you see there is a label associated with the test pod and the label was run
equals to test hyphen pod.
Now using the cube CTL patch command, we are modifying the label from run equals to test, pod to run
equals to dev pod.
And after the patching has completed.
When you run the kubectl get pods command again, you see the labels have been changed.
So generally the patch command is used quite extensively as part of your scripting and automation environment.
But the downside here is that initially it will require a little bit of testing to ensure that it is
modifying the right set of fields as part of the manifest file, otherwise it will create issues.
So these are the two ways.
Let's go ahead and try it out now for today's video.
What we are going to do.
We are going to create a pod.
I'll just call it as test pod from the image of nginx.
Now I'm going to create this pod based on two environment.
The first environment is based on Linux and in a second tab I am based on windows and both of them are
connected to a different set of Kubernetes clusters.
So I'll go ahead and I'll create pods in both of the Kubernetes clusters.
Now once this is done Then when you do kubectl get pods, you have the pod that is running.
And in fact you can just do show labels and associated with the test pod you have this label of run
equals to test pod.
Let's go ahead and copy this.
And in windows based environment let's go ahead and run this again.
Here you have the test pod running with the exact same label.
Now let's say that you want to change this specific part.
Now again there are multiple ways to do that.
But we are going to use the approaches that we have discussed in today's video, which is the edit and
patch, so that it gives us the better clarity, because for many of the fields, you will be using
the edit and patch quite extensively.
So first we'll start with edit.
So I'll say kubectl edit pod test pod.
Now as we were discussing that based on the operating system, it will open up the appropriate default
editor.
In this case it has opened the whim.
And if I run the same command in windows or before running it in windows, let's complete it as part
of the Linux environment.
So within here, this is what we are going to change.
So let's go ahead and change it I'll press I so that we can insert.
Let's just call it as Dev Pod.
Just for an example I'll press escape and we'll do the save.
Once you have done that you see it clearly states that the pod has been edited.
And when you run the same command again, you see the labels have been edited successfully.
This is one approach.
Let's go ahead and try it out in windows.
So I'll say kubectl edit pod test pod.
And this time you see it has opened up the notepad.
So within here it becomes much more easier for you to edit.
And within all that you have to do is you have to change it to dev pod.
Import.
Click on save and close this.
Once you have done that, you see the label has been edited.
When you run this command once again, you can see the new label that is reflected.
So I hope with this you got a better clarity that based on the operating system, the default editor
will open where you can go ahead and modify things.
Now the second approach that we were discussing is using the kubectl patch command.
The benefit as we are discussing is that once you have this command you can run it non-interactively
so you can add it as part of your automation because your manual approach is not required.
Something similar to the kubectl edit.
Now generally in the documentation you have good amount of information as part of the kubectl patch.
So the command is kubectl patch.
You can use the hyphen p and there are various options.
And you also have examples like kubectl patch.
You are patching the node.
This is the name of the node you are using the hyphen p.
And here you can define the exact things that you want to patch.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
First we are going to take an example of the Linux based environment.
Now just for simplicity, I am connected to the same Linux server from one more tab.
I just wanted to show you a few things.
Now, generally whenever you're working with patch, one thing that I recommend is you can run command
like kubectl get pods test pod with the output of JSON.
This will make things much more easier while you are writing the appropriate patch command.
So here you have to identify what exactly you want to modify.
Now we have identified that I want to modify the labels.
So first let's go ahead and create a basic command.
I'll say cube CTL patch.
What we want to patch I want to patch the pod.
What is the name of the pod.
The name of the pod is test pod.
So here we have narrowed it down that I want to make some changes to the test pod.
Eastport now in the test pod, where exactly you want to make the change is something that you'll have
to define.
So I'll use the hyphen p and let's start.
So if you see it starts from here then within here you have the metadata.
So within here I'll add the metadata.
Then inside the metadata you see inside the metadata you have labels.
So inside the metadata we have labels.
Just verify is it label or labels.
It is labels.
Then inside labels.
Also you have this specific label that you want to modify.
So within here inside the labels what we want to modify we want to modify run.
So let's verify.
So your run is dev pod.
So we'll change it to stage Pod and we'll close it.
All right.
So just verify how many openings are there.
One opening.
Two opening.
Three opening.
However, you have only one closing, so we'll add two closing here.
And then.
Since we had a single quote here, we'll add a single quote here.
So hopefully this is good.
Let's press enter.
All right.
So we are getting invalid character here.
Why we are getting invalid character.
Because this in metadata if you see metadata is double quotes.
So here we have to add double quotes.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And when I press enter you see this time it is working.
Now when you do kubectl get pods with show labels the label has been modified successfully.
This is great.
Now in windows also the overall format will remain to be the same.
However, there is one small change that you will have to do.
In fact, let's copy the same command and in windows let's run this.
So at this stage we are getting the issue over here.
So what you can do is there'll be slight changes here.
So primarily you have a single code.
What you can do you can just change this single quote to double quote because it will work pretty well
with a double quote.
And then whenever you have a quoted string you can just escape it.
So here so here you can just escape it wherever it is present.
Once.
Then let's press enter.
And this time it has worked.
Now since you have added these are the main double quotes.
Otherwise, if you have started the double quote here, then you have one more year.
Then it becomes a little confusing because windows does not really know whether this is start and this
is end because here you have specified it multiple times, so you are escaping it.
So it becomes much more easier.
Now when you do kubectl get pods with the show labels, you should see that the labels have been updated
accordingly.
Now, one more very important point to note is that not all of the fields of an object can be edited
specifically when it is a live one.
So depending upon the resources, the fields that you can edit can also be different.
We are going to take one example specific to pods.
So in pods you have mutable field which can be edited immutable field which cannot be edited.
For example, in the mutable field you have metadata, dot labels, metadata, dot annotations, spec
containers, dot resources, etc. and in immutable field.
Again, note that this is just a sample.
You can have more fields that can be edited.
However, in the immutable one you have various areas like container, image or metadata, name, etc.
all of these fields cannot be edited.
Let's also go ahead and look into it.
So let's try it in windows.
So when I say cube CTL edit pod, test pod.
Now let's say that I try to edit this specific field.
Let's just call it as New Pod.
And I'll click on save.
I'll close it.
And immediately here you see we got an error.
It says at least one of the API version kind and name was changed.
So it has not modified the resource at this stage.
So when you do kubectl get pods you see the pod continues to remain.
The name is test pod.
So this is one point to keep a note of.
Now generally one of the workaround in such cases.
Again you will have to redeploy it.
There is no other option at this stage.
However let's run the same command.
Let's clear the screen.
I'm just showing it from the perspective of Linux because exam environment is also based on ubuntu.
So within here as we are discussing, when you try to do a edit on the pod and when you try to change
the name.
So let's change the name to say, Newport.
When I save this, as we were discussing, you got an error.
However, it is also showing you a copy of your changes have been stored on this specific file.
So if I do a cat on this specific file.
Oops.
Let's remove the double quote.
Now when you run this let's go a bit up.
You will see that this is the manifest file that you had edited where you have edited the name.
However, other part of this manifest file is related to the object that we had edited.
So one option that you can use, let's say you have to change it.
So what you can do, you know you directly cannot do that.
So what you can do, you can just delete this specific part.
And once you have done that you can just recreate a new port with a very similar specification to the
live port that we had.
We'll specify the name here and the port has been created.
When you do kubectl get pods, this is the new port.
And this new port will have same level of annotations or same level of configurations that it was created
with.
Because it can happen that you might not have the manifest file associated with a specific object.
So this is one of the quick ways that you can use to recreate a specific object with similar configuration,
with small amount of changes which required recreation.
Great.
Now, depending upon the object that you are working with as part of the edit as well as patch, the
mutable field and immutable fields will change accordingly.
So this is where a little amount of time you will have to spend to understand what are these.
And again you don't have to learn it.
Generally when you have a requirement of edit during that time, you can go ahead and look into it.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Capacity, Allocated, and Allocatable ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the capacity allocable and allocated as
part of the appropriate Kubernetes nodes.
Now, whenever you go ahead and run a command of kubectl describe node followed by the node name, you
will get a detailed information about the node.
It will show you about the node capacity, the allocable resources, how much resources are allocated,
and various other information.
So in today's video, it is important for us to understand certain sections, specifically the capacity
allocable and allocated.
Before we go ahead and look into each one of them, let's see on where do we find this.
Now from the terminal, when you run a command say kubectl get nodes, it will show you the nodes related
information.
So let's say when I do kubectl describe node followed by the name of the node.
As we see here, we get a lot of information about the appropriate node.
Among this we are interested in few areas here.
The first important area here is the capacity.
Second important area here is this table.
And the third important area here is the allocated.
So let's go ahead and understand what each one of these means.
The first important area is the capacity.
And at a high level overview.
This represents the total amount of resources that is physically available on the node hardware itself.
So here it is showing you the CPU the ephemeral storage, the memory.
So CPU and memory is something that we have to be very thorough with in terms of understanding.
So CPU is showing as one what it means.
It means that the node has one CPU core or a virtual core.
Then you have the memory.
So this is the memory.
So this means around 1.92 Gib of total memory that is available.
Now again you will have to do the appropriate conversion.
And then you have the ephemeral storage.
Again you'll have to do slight conversion, so at this stage it converts to around 49 GB of local ephemeral
storage over here.
So this is related to the capacity.
The second important area is the alloc table.
Now this section shows the resources that are available for pods.
Now one thing to note is that let's assume that the node has around 1.92 GB of Ram and one core CPU.
Now each node only running the pods and there is no nodes might also be running other services to keep
the node running.
So those services will also require certain amount of memory and certain amount of CPU.
So out of this, 100% of CPU and 100% of memory cannot be allocated to the pods because ultimately maybe
you might have Docker, you might have container D, you will have the kube proxy, you will have the
kubelet that might be responsible for creating and managing the containers.
So all of those will also be using the CPU and memory.
So this is the reason why generally whenever you create a pod and when you set a the request and limits,
you cannot directly rely just on the capacity to write the appropriate requests and limits.
So this is where the alloc table can also prove to be useful.
At a high level overview, this section shows the resources that are available for ports.
After subtracting what the system which can be the operating system, the kubelet, etc. reserves.
So with the appropriate overhead, this is the alloc table resources that you can give to the ports.
So within your you have the CPU of 900.
So this is like 0.9 CPU or 900 milli CPU that is available for the ports.
Then the ephemeral storage is somewhere around 44 GB and memory is somewhere around 1.5 Gib that is
available for the ports.
Now the question that comes is is this a good reference while you are creating requests and limits for
the ports?
Answer again is no.
And the last part and the very important area is the allocated resources.
So this section shows how much of the allocated resources are currently requested or limited by the
running pods.
Now note that whenever you start a Kubernetes cluster, there will always be some pods that might be
running in the kube system namespace.
Now, these pods might also be consuming the resources.
And these pods you cannot delete.
These are very important pods specifically in the kube system namespace.
So these pods also has certain amount of requests and limits.
For example if you see you might have something like the pods have already consumed the request of 702
M in CPU, which is 78% memory, is almost 45% of the total that is available.
Now, since these set of pods are already using this much amount of request in terms of CPU and memory,
after this, whatever is available can be allocated to the appropriate pods that you might run as part
of the system.
Now from my terminal, if we again run the kubectl describe node.
Let's go a bit up.
First we have understood what exactly the capacity means.
Then we have understood what exactly the allocatable means.
And note that allocatable values will always be lower than the capacity values.
This is one important point to note.
And the last very important area is the allocated resources.
Now within here you see CPU is almost 702 which is 78%.
So this is quite high.
And memory is 45%.
So this is something that is already being used by the existing pods.
So if you are trying to launch a new deployment or a new port, the requests and limits that you might
set, you will have to consider this part in mind.
And then only you will have to set it.
Now, one more thing that I wanted to show you.
Since these values are a little high, you might be assuming that I have a lot of pods that are running,
and the answer is no.
So when I do kubectl get pods with a, which means all the pods, you will see that all of the pods
that are running in the cluster.
All of them are in the kube system namespace.
So I don't really have any pods that are running in the default namespace, etc. at this stage.
So you have cilium running as part of the networking.
You have core DNS running, you have the DigitalOcean node agent that is running, etc. so these are
also consuming certain amount of CPU and memory due to which the available requests, both in terms
of CPU and memory, can be a little lower.
Now one more point to note is that just by looking into this value, you might not get a very clear
picture.
It can happen that out of ten pods in the kube system namespace, only one pod is consuming, say,
90% of the requested CPU and memory.
So you would like to see which pod is using, how much amount of requests, both in terms of CPU and
memory.
And in case if you would like that, then you can go ahead and also do that.
So this specific command, if you see it gives you details of all of the pod.
It shows you how much is the CPU that is requested and how much memory is requested over here.
So the highest at this stage is helium.
So let's go ahead and quickly also look into it.
So let's clear the screen.
I'll go ahead and I'll run this command again.
This is generally quite useful in the production environments.
So this is the reason why we are using this command.
Now if I press enter you see again we have explicitly specified all of the namespaces.
Now here you see that this is the port that is consuming one of the highest CPU and memory in terms
of request.
Psyllium is taking 303 hundred year.
Then you have core DNS pods that are also consuming certain amount of requests and memory.
And there are a few other ports.
Some of them does not really have any CPU and memory.
So in total one, two, three, four and five.
So in total five ports are taking majority of the CPU requests and the memory request here.
Now, just for simplicity, if you have to look into the command in the output, we are outputting the
custom columns.
So you have three columns.
One is the namespace that you see over here.
Then you have the pod that you see over here.
Then you have the column of CPU request and the memory request.
So these are the four columns.
And then for namespace columns you are requesting for a very specific information which is metadata
dot namespace.
Now generally from a different tab let's do kubectl get pods with all namespace.
And when I do kubectl describe pod, let's copy the pod name.
And I'll also add the kube system namespace.
So within your you ideally get all of the details.
So let's clear the screen.
Let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and instead of describe pod I'll just do kubectl get pod.
Now here we are getting all of the details specifically related to pod.
Let's go.
Better.
Great.
So here is the starting.
Now if you see for the namespace you have requested a value associated with metadata dot namespace.
So what it will do in the metadata of each pod in the metadata there will be namespace and whatever
is the value associated with it will be available here.
Then, as we are discussing for Pod.
For pod, the value that is requested is metadata dot name.
And this is the reason why for each pod, whatever value it gets in terms of metadata and then name.
So whatever value it gets will be populated over here.
And then for the CPU request it goes to spec containers resources request dot CPU.
And same for the memory request.
So depending upon what value you want at each column level this command can be modified accordingly.
Alright, so generally in the production environments, when you have started to write the appropriate
requests and limits, all of these three things, specifically the allocated resources is something
that you have to keep in mind and then create the request and limits for your pods and deployments accordingly,
so that it is not too less or not too high either.
Great.
So that's a high level overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Exercise - Requests and Limits ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to have an exercise related to the requests and limits.
This exercise is aimed to give you better clarity and understanding about this specific topic.
So let's get started.
Now our exercise is going to be quite simple.
All we'll have to do is we have to create a pod, which will request all of the available CPU and memory
resource on a specific worker node.
In the worker node where the pod is going to be scheduled, you will have to describe that node and
get various details like the capacity, the allocatable information, and also the allocated resources.
And based on that, you have to make a decision where you have to add the appropriate request, specifically
the CPU and memory that will consume all of the available resources of that worker node.
So let's go ahead and quickly analyze some of the important figures here.
First one is the total Allocatable CPU.
And in this case it is 900 M.
So if you will see where do you get that information.
You will get it from here.
So the Allocatable CPU is 900 900m.
Note that capacity is one, but not 100% of the CPU will be available for the pods.
The allocatable will always be lesser, so this is one important part to note.
Second is the total allocatable memory which is around 1574 MI.
So if you will see this is 1574 MI.
Then the next important area to consider is that the CPU that is already requested by the existing pods,
and the memory already requested by the existing pods.
Now where will you find all of this information?
You will get it in the allocated resources, so you will see out of the 900 CPU and 1574 MI of memory,
how much is already requested by the existing pods running in the cluster.
So if you see the CPU that is requested is 702M, which is 78% of the Allocatable memory is 720 MI,
which is 45% of the Allocatable.
So this part that you see this percentage is in relation to the Allocatable year.
Now let's also verify before we proceed further.
So this 78% if you see.
So 78% into 900 divided by 100 is 702.
And same thing that you see 702 M is used.
So this 78% is in relation to the Allocatable and not the capacity.
Now in order to create a pod that will request all the available CPU and memory resource of a worker
node, what is the metric that you will calculate based on?
Will you calculate based on the allocatable or will you calculate based on the allocated resources?
Now in allocated as we know, 78% of CPU and 45% of memory is already used.
So you cannot reuse that because if you try to create a pod with a request of CPU and memory of 901
574 MI, the pod will never get scheduled.
But we want the pod to get scheduled on a worker node in a way that 100% of the request, both in terms
of CPU and memory, will get used up.
So in order to do that, our calculation would look something similar to this, as we know that available
CPU for the request is 900 M, which is the total Allocatable -702 M, which is the allocated.
So the final figure that we get is 198 M.
So this is the one that we can use.
Maximum and available memory 157 for MI is the total Allocatable requested memory by other pods is 720
mi.
So the total maximum that is available is 854 mi to be used as part of the request.
Let's go ahead and try it out so that this gives us better clarity.
Now when you do cube CTL get nodes.
Currently I have one worker node that is available when I do cube CTL describe node.
Let's copy the node name here.
And similar to the screenshot we see the CPU is 702M that is already requested, which is 78% of the
allocatable memory is 720 mi, 45% of the Allocatable.
And this is the Allocatable over here.
And this is the mean main capacity of the worker node.
Now again, note that in your case, the values might be different because you might be running a different
type of cluster, you might be running a bigger cluster, you might be using minikube, etc. so this
part might change, but the main understanding will remain to be the same.
So our aim is that we create a pod that will get scheduled on the worker node, and it will consume
all the available requests.
Now, similar to what we were discussing, the total Allocatable CPU is 900, out of which 702 is already
used.
So in this case 900 -702 is 198.
So for our pod we can use maximum of 198 M of CPU.
And similar to that, the total allocatable memory is 1574 minus the one that is already committed,
which is 720.
So the maximum memory that can be used as part of a request will be 854.
Now for today's practical I already have a pod manifest that is available.
The name of the pod is Fit Pod, and if you see in the request we have requested for 198 M and the memory
is 854 M, so this is the exact one that is available and limits.
Also, we have kept it as same.
So let's go ahead and create a pod with this specific request and limits.
Now from a different tab I'll go ahead and I'll create the pod over here.
Once this is done when you do kubectl get pods, you see our fit pod is running perfectly well.
Now, since this has also requested a CPU and memory.
Now when you do kubectl describe nodes, this time you see in the allocated resource the CPU is 100%,
the memory is 100%.
So any new pod that is requesting for a CPU and memory explicitly as part of the manifest file, that
pod will fail.
Now let's do one thing.
I'll just copy the manifest and I'll create pod hyphen three dot HTML.
I just wanted to show you one more thing.
Let's just call it as temp pod.
Now, as part of this, let's just request, say ten mi and CPU.
I will request, say ten MB.
So this is a very minimal memory and CPU that we have requested.
Now let's clear the screen when I do cube CTL create on pod three.
When you do kubectl get pods immediately here you see we are getting pending.
When I do kubectl describe pod tmp pod, let's just bring it a little up.
It says insufficient CPU insufficient memory.
So this is one thing that we already know.
Let's go ahead and delete the pod three.
Now let's go ahead and try requesting for just one mi and one m.
So this is very minimal.
I'll save this.
Let's go ahead and try to create the pod three again.
When you do kubectl get pods again even with such a small request of one m and 1MI, our TMP pod is
still pending.
And if you would like to see the logs over here.
Same insufficient CPU, insufficient memory.
All right.
So let's just go ahead and delete this specific pod.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's also go ahead and delete the pod one that we had created which is our fit pod.
And now when you do cube CTL describe again we are back to normal 702M and 7:20 a.m..
Now generally when you create a pod that requests more than the available requests and memory as we
know it is going to fail.
So in the pod number two, what we are doing is the CPU is 200 MB.
We know that 198 M is allowed, so the CPU is 200 M and limit.
Also, we have just kept it in a similar way.
Specifically, we are discussing here from the perspective of CPU.
Let's save this.
And now when you try to create this specific port.
When you do kubectl get pods again, the unfit port, the status is pending, and when you do kubectl
describe pod unfit pod.
This time you see, in the failed scheduling we are getting insufficient CPU.
This time we are not getting insufficient memory.
Why?
Because the requested memory is 500.
However, you have more number of memory that is available.
So from memory perspective as part of request there is no issue.
The issue is from the perspective of CPU.
All right.
So once you have understood that you can also go ahead and delete this specific pod.
Now just for simplicity, I have also added the details related to the final conclusion of 188 M and
854 MI.
Now, this will help you during the revision process, and I have also added the screenshot of our fit
pod of 198 and 854.
This will also help you during revision.
Now, before we conclude one very important pointer that you have to keep a note of, sometimes question
that comes is.
Let's assume that the available ports in the worker node have already requested 100% of the CPU in memory.
Now, in such case, can we launch any new port as part of the worker node?
So let's understand this.
Let's go ahead and quickly create the port one again which is our fit port.
Now in this case what is happening is if I do describe node, you have requested 100% of the Allocatable
CPU, 100% of the Allocatable memory.
Everything is used here.
So in such case, can you launch any pod as part of the worker node?
Is what this question states.
And the answer to this is yes.
Now one very important point to note is that a pod without any resource request is assumed to request
zero CPU and zero memory.
So if you just create a pod, you do not add that request section of CPU and memory.
In such case, the scheduler will assume zero CPU and zero memory.
So in such cases, the pod will get scheduled as part of the node.
However, in case if the pod is scheduled on that node, it can also be evicted or throttled if the
node becomes resource starved.
Because this pod does not have any guaranteed resources.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
So let's also go ahead and try it out.
So let's go ahead and create a simple pod.
So I'll say curl pod with the image of Alpine curl.
And I'll just run sleep here.
Now since we have not explicitly defined the CPU and memory over here, if you will notice, when I
do kubectl get pods or curl pod is running perfectly well.
All right.
But we have also understood the limitation of such pods specifically in terms of production environments.
You have to be careful.
Great.
So I hope this video has given you better clarity related to the topic of requests and limits.
And with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- JSONPath ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the JSON path.
So at a high level overview.
JSON path, you can consider it to be a query language specifically for JSON.
And using the JSON path, you can go ahead and select and extract specific data from the JSON document.
For example, even in the screenshot you see you have a JSON over here.
And from this entire JSON document, if you would like to extract certain fields like you would like
to see the list of names, then you can create the appropriate JSON path based expressions to get the
appropriate results.
So this is the basics of JSON path.
Now generally when we discuss about JSON path there are multiple set of expressions that can be used.
Again these are very limited just for a demonstration.
However, based on the requirements the number of expression increases.
Now again, at this stage we are not going to discuss about each one of them because it will become
too theoretical.
When we start the practical.
In just a moment, we'll be discussing about all of these.
Now, for today's practical, what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and create two pods,
and once both of these pods are available, we'll go ahead and we'll use the JSON path to extract certain
information related to pods.
Because generally when you do kubectl describe pods, there are a lot of information like IP address
containers, very detailed information is available.
So this is something that we are going to do in today's practical.
Now before we do that, one of the important prerequisite is that we have to first examine the overall
data structure in JSON.
Since you are writing the JSON path based expressions, you have to look into the JSON structure of
a specific command.
For example, here you have kubectl get pods with the output of JSON.
So here you see you are getting so many information about the pods like metadata creation, timestamp,
resource version.
Then in the spec container's image image pull policy resources and so many others.
So understanding the structure is very important.
Once you understand the structure, you can write the JSON path expression quite effectively.
So if you look into the sample output this is how it would look like.
So you have kubectl get pods.
This time the output will be JSON path and you create the appropriate JSON path expression.
And based on that you will get the output.
In this case the output is the pod name and the associated pod IP address.
And again depending upon the requirement, this can be modified accordingly.
Now for today's demo, we are going to explore some of the very common JSON path expressions that will
allow us to filter and query data based on the requirement.
Just for simplicity, I have added some of the sample expressions so that during the revision stage
it will be useful.
Let's go ahead and start with the practical post, which will be discussing about this in more detail.
Now for today's practical, the first thing that we are going to do is we are going to create two pods.
One is called as pod, one second is called as pod two.
One is based on the nginx image.
Second is based on the Apache image.
So let's go ahead and quickly do this.
So first I will go ahead and create a pod one.
Then we'll copy the second command.
We'll go ahead and will create pod two.
Now, once both of these ports are created, when you do kubectl get pods, we have both of these pods
running.
Now before you go ahead and start working with the JSON path, it is very important that we first understand
the overall JSON structure.
So in order to do that, when you do kubectl get pods with the output of JSON, this is the actual output.
You see, the amount of details is quite extensive.
Now just for simplicity what we are going to do, we'll just store this output to a file called as outputs
dot JSON so that it's easier to view it.
And within our K8's folder if we'll quickly open this outputs dot JSON.
This is how the structure really looks like.
So in the items over here this is the first item.
This is related to the pod number one.
So if you see this is related to the pod number one.
So if we go a bit down.
This is the start of the second pod.
So till here everything was as part of the pod.
Number one, now you have the pod.
Number two over here.
And again, if we go a bit down.
Till here you have the pod two related details.
And since we had ran a command of kubectl get pods with the output of JSON, the kind here was automatically
populated to list.
And the API version was version one.
Now, generally in Google, when you type Jsonpath evaluator, there are multiple websites that are
available.
Now, before you go ahead and create and write the expressions as part of the cube CTL set of commands,
it is important for us to evaluate our entire expressions, and since we are learning it for the first
time, it is important to have an online evaluator.
Again, there are multiple websites.
We'll use one of them just for our testing.
All right.
So if you see over here there is a ready made data and there is a JSON path expression that is given.
And based on that there is a results.
Now we are not going to work with the ready made data.
We are going to use the data that we have in the outputs dot JSON.
So I'll copy this.
I'll add it over here.
And then based on this specific data we are going to evaluate the results.
Now before we go ahead and work on this, let us take a minute to understand the overall structure of
this JSON file.
Now the base structure of the file would look something similar to this.
So you have the API version is something that we saw.
Then you have the items.
So within the items you have multiple set of pods as we are discussing.
So you can consider it to be something like an array.
And within here you have multiple set of pods specific information.
The kind is list and then you have a metadata resource version.
This is something that we have also seen.
Now when we discuss about Pod specific information each pod will contain various information like the
API version kind is Pod, the metadata, the spec as well as the status.
So this is the high level pod structure.
This is the high level document structure.
Now discussing about the JSON path expression.
The first one is this.
This is like a dollar sign.
So this is primarily referring to the root object of the JSON document.
Now generally within here the evaluation result if you just leave it as it is right.
If you just leave it.
So this is the root.
So the entire JSON document is returned to you.
So if you see the entire JSON document is returned to you.
Now again when we create the JSON path we don't want the entire JSON, right?
You need very specific information from here.
Now let's say that from this JSON document I am looking for the value associated with a kind.
Now note that this kind is not the kind that is inside the pod.
All right.
This is the main kind of the entire structure.
So if you want to see it, in fact, let me quickly show you.
So within here this is the kind.
So if I want this specific information, all I have to do is I have to type a kind and you get a value.
The value is list in a similar way if you type metadata.
So inside the metadata, whatever value is present is something that you will get over here.
Now, the reason why you are directly able to get it.
Because this part is not inside the items over here.
Now all of the parts, if you see all of the part specific information is within the items.
So in such cases, if you want to see only part specific information, you can type items.
And you see this time all of this part, this API version.
Then if we go a bit down the kind, the metadata, all of this will not be presented to you.
Only the details that are part of the items are something that is available now.
Inside the items here you see that you have multiple pod details.
So you have pod one details, you have pod two details, etc. in a structure like an array.
So now what you can do within the items over here you can say something like zero.
So zero will refer to the first item in this case pod one.
And this is the reason why you see you will only get the details of the pod one.
If you go a bit down, you will not get any other details about any other pods.
All right.
So this is first part.
Then if I type one this will refer to as the pod two.
And you only get the pod two specific information.
Now in case if you want to get all of the information you can use a wildcard something similar to this.
And now all of the pod one and the pod two information will be made available to you.
So this is part two and this is part one.
All right.
So I hope you understood this specific part.
Now let's say in both of these pods I want to see the metadata.
So what you can do you can say dot metadata.
So this metadata that you see over here is associated with both the pods.
This is the pod two metadata.
This is the pod one metadata.
And let's say that I want to just see the names like what are the names associated with all of the pods
that are running.
So in this case you can say metadata dot Name, so you only get the names associated with all of the
pods that are running.
So this is specific to the metadata.
Let's go ahead and look into RSpec.
Inside the RSpec as we know you have containers.
So you can replace it with RSpec dot containers.
And this time as we see, you have all of the container specific information over here.
And let's say that in containers we are only looking for the image I want to see what are the container
images that are being used.
Now within here, if you see in the spec you have containers and then you have an array like structure.
So what you'll have to do in the containers, you'll have to build the same approach.
And you can build a star.
And then you can say I am more interested in the image.
So you can say something like image.
So this time you see you only got the image as an output.
And in a similar way, if you would like to see the IP address of all of the ports, sometimes in the
organizations This is one of the common use cases.
So you have the pod IPS.
So you'll have to see where exactly the pod IP is.
Let's see.
It is under the status.
So what you can do is you can say status dot pod IP.
Let's just verify it is ten 1080.146.
Let's just quickly verify.
Ten 100.106 and the second pod IP is 46.
So this is one of the ways in which you can filter the data.
Now that we have understood on how we can create simple JSON path based expressions, it is important
on how to integrate it as part of the kubectl command.
So when you use kubectl get pods, the output this time will be JSON path.
And then you can create the appropriate expressions.
So let's take an example.
So I'll say kubectl get pods.
The output will be JSON path.
And within here you can go ahead and add your expression.
So let's say I'll just add this.
This is something that we have explored.
The output as we know is a complete JSON.
I'll clear the screen.
And then let's take one more example of items dot metadata dot name.
And this time as we see we have two names part one and part two.
And similar to this specific query let's try this out also.
So I'll say status dot pod IP.
This time you see we got the pod IP.
So in total since there are two pods we got two pod IPS.
So this is how once you have tested your appropriate JSON path based expressions, you can go ahead
and add it as part of the cube CTL commands.
Now one more thing.
You can also do something like this.
This will also work.
So if you remove this you see this approach can also work.
Now one more thing that I wanted to emphasize upon let's say in exams in case if you see any requirement
related to JSON path, then there is a specific documentation of JSON path support.
And within here if you go a bit down, they have given some of the functions that are available.
Like for example this is for wild card and others which you can use as part of the problem solving.
Now again there are certain JSON path expressions with cube CTL.
So some of the examples like item zero metadata name.
So all of this is something that we have just looked into.
So this is also something that you can use as a reference to build your own JSON path based expressions.
Now before we conclude this video, I also wanted to give you certain possibilities specifically using
the range over here.
Now if you look into the JSON path expression.
So let's do one thing before we understand it.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now generally note that when you have something like single quotes and double quotes that are used in
windows, it can create issues.
You might have to escape it.
So generally these kind of expressions, you can try it out in a Linux based system.
So just for simplicity, I have a Linux server.
Again you have both the ports part one and part two that is available.
And we are going to use this.
And even in the exam environment it is completely based on Linux.
So this is the reason why we are using this.
Now if I go ahead and copy this first let's go ahead and look into what exactly it is doing.
So it is giving you the output as the IP addresses.
Now if you remember we had ran the same command and we got the IP addresses over here.
But the issue was that this IP addresses were in the same line.
So in case if you would like more customization you can go ahead and use something like this.
So range is something that is very helpful.
So range will allow us to iterate over the items.
So here we have a wildcard.
So it will iterate over the items.
And since we have used the range at the end we have also added the end.
So this range and this end we have to add.
And within here this is the first part.
The range is the first part and then this part.
Status states that IP is very similar status dot pod IP and this is the very important part which is
the new line.
So because of this, the output that you see it comes as part of the newer line.
Now again using the range allows us to have a lot of possibilities.
For example, in the second command we are using the same approach.
We have specified range and we are iterating over the items.
And at the end we have this end.
Now this time we are specifying two important part one is the metadata dot name and then you have the
status dot pod IP.
Let's copy this.
Now if I clear the screen, if I run this command you see we have the pod name.
We have the pod IP.
So this part we understand metadata dot name.
This is the first part.
Then you have this and then you have this.
This is for new line.
And this part you can consider it to be like insertion of tab characters so that you have a proper alignment
between the pod one and the IP address.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's say that I do not add this new line over here.
What will happen?
You see, all of them are in the same line.
So this is something that we do not really want.
So now what happens if we keep the new line?
However, if we remove this tab this time you see this is also a little confusing.
So pod hyphen one then you have the IP address.
So this is also confusing.
So I hope you understood the importance of both of them as part of your JSON path expression.
So something similar to what we were discussing.
Even in the documentation you will get an example.
So you don't have to remember all of this.
So here you see you have range of items and you have an end over here you have a new line.
And then you can specify metadata name.
You have the tab.
And then this part.
In this case it is status dot start time.
You can have IP addresses etc..
So all of these things are available here.
All right.
So that's a very high level overview about the JSON path.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Ingress with TLS ---

Everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about using ingress with TLS.
Now, in a very basic setup, when you have a service and you have the appropriate ingress controller,
the issue at a default configuration is that a HTTP based connections are generally used to connect
to the ingress controller.
So for example, let's assume that this is a internet user.
And this internet user connects to the ingress controller.
So this connection at a default level you will see that HTTP is the protocol that is being used.
Now since HTTP is a plain text protocol, in case if an attacker is sniffing the network, then attacker
can fetch lot of sensitive information over here.
So this is the reason why the HTTP based connections should be avoided.
Now, in order to achieve this, you can go ahead and set up ingress with TLS.
TLS as we know it ensures secure communication between client and the server.
And nowadays most of the websites are using SSL TLS.
feels so what you would like to do?
The communication between user and the ingress controller over here.
This communication must be encrypted because this happens through the internet.
So this is where you require a TLS based connection.
So Https should be involved over here.
And in today's video at a high level overview we are going to discuss on how this really looks like
in conjunction to the ingress controller and ingress.
Now for today's demo.
I already have a ingress controller that is set up, and when you do a cube CTL, get service in the
namespace where the ingress controller is running.
Currently, you see that our nginx ingress controller has created a service which has a node port.
Now in here there are two node ports that are available, one for the HTTP and second for the Https
at 443.
So let's do one thing.
Let's look into what happens when you connect to the 443 over here.
Before we do that, let me also quickly show you the ingress.
So I have a ingress that is created, and this is the one that we'll use as part of the demo number
two.
Now when you do a curl on the Https connection on the IP address of the server, followed by the node
port associated with 443, you will see that the connection has failed over here.
It states SSL certificate problem.
Self-signed certificate is used.
In fact, if you copy this and you add it in the browser as well.
You see we are getting a not secure connection.
Why?
In fact, if you look into the certificate details, the certificate common name here is Kubernetes
ingress controller fake certificate.
All right.
So just for simplicity, if you still want the website to load using curl, you can just supply the
hyphen key and you will get the appropriate website whatever it may be.
This is fine.
Now the next part that we were discussing is that ideally when you have a ingress controller, so you
would like a proper certificate that is not really self-signed.
In a production environment so that the entire workflow works pretty well.
So for this I have set up a ingress over here.
If you will see we have a TLS ingress.
And the host is demo dot labs dot in.
And if you quickly do a cube CTL describe.
Ingress.
On the TLS ingress you will see that you have a host.
If this is the host it will go to the appropriate service which is example service.
Now there is also a specific field related to TLS.
So from here we can identify that for this specific ingress TLS has been set up.
Now before we test the newer setup, what I wanted to do when you do a kubectl get pods on the namespace
of ingress hyphen nginx, we have the nginx controller that is running over here.
So what I'll do I'll just do a cube CTL logs on this specific ingress controller in the.
And here we got an error.
That is fine.
What you can do, you can just add a hyphen f option at a later stage.
Let's press enter.
All right.
So these are the logs.
Now when we make a request to the demo collapsed in website that is configured as part of ingress.
In fact let's do that.
So I'll specify demo dot followed by the same node port which is associated with 443.
When I press enter you see we are getting the basic Welcome to nginx page and you are not really getting
a certificate error.
Why?
Because this is a proper certificate associated with this specific domain.
So if you will see over here the certificate is valid.
And within here we can also see the logs associated with the ingress controller.
So from here we can conclude that the request indeed came to the ingress controller over here.
So let's do a control C.
Great.
Now one of the primary aim of this specific video is to show that this kind of setup that we just saw
as part of today's demo is possible, where the connection from the user to the ingress controller can
be encrypted using TLS.
Now, few important points to note specifically related to this topic.
First one is that the certificates associated with the TLS.
So this certificate and the key is stored as part of Kubernetes secrets.
And whenever you configure ingress, you can refer to the Kubernetes secret where the certificate and
the keys are stored.
For example, you have a secret and in the secret you have the certificate and you have the private
key.
And then when you go ahead and create ingress, this ingress can refer to the secret where the certificate
and keys are stored, and the configuration can be completed accordingly.
In fact, if you will see in the TLS also it states TLS hyphen cert terminates demo dot where TLS cert
is nothing but the name of the secret.
Now let's also explore this.
When you do a kubectl describe on the ingress, you will see that there is a field of TLS and it states
that TLS hyphen CERT terminates.
Demo dot labs dot in.
Now when you do a cube CTL get secret.
You see we have one secret of TLS hyphen cert.
And when you do a cube CTL describe secret TLS hyphen cert, you will see that this secret in the data.
You have the TLS certificate and you have the TLS key.
So both of them will go in the secret.
And then when you create the ingress as part of the TLS configuration, you can connect to the appropriate
secret.
Alright.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the workflow and also you understood the
need of having a Https connection at a ingress level.
Now this specific video is going to be a high level overview.
In the next video, we are going to look into how you can set up this entire workflow, since it is
quite important from the exam perspective, but also from the production perspective as well.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Note - Ingress with TLS ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Practical - Ingress with TLS ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the advantages of using ingress with TLS primarily
one being the encrypted connection in the external network between the user and the ingress controller.
So in today's video, we are going to look into how you can go ahead and set up ingress with TLS from
a practical point of view.
So as part of today's video, we are going to follow a similar architecture that you see as part of
this workflow diagram where we are going to first create a pod.
Then we are going to create a service that links with this pod.
Then we are going to create a ingress controller.
And then we are also going to go ahead and create the appropriate ingress.
And then we'll check the entire communication.
Now note that whatever TLS certificate that you generate for today's demo we are going to use a self-signed
certificate.
But in a production environment you can use the proper signed certificate for the domain that you have.
So just for simplicity, I have also documented the steps that we are going to implement in today's
video as part of GitHub.
So in the step number one, we are going to create a pod.
And then we are going to create a service.
So let's go ahead and quickly do that.
So first we'll go ahead and create a example pod based on the image of nginx.
So in our cube ADM system we'll run this command.
The next part is to go ahead and create a service.
So we are using cube CTL expose for the example service that we create.
This is the pod that will be added over here.
So let's copy this and we'll run this command.
Once this is done you can do a cube CTL get service.
And you have the example service over here.
And also verify with the cube CTL describe command whether endpoint has been associated or not.
Ideally it would be similar to this once you have the service and once you have the pod available.
Next thing is we are going to set up the ingress controller.
The ingress controller that we are going to use is going to be the nginx ingress controller.
So let's copy this command and we'll run this.
It will set up the nginx ingress controller for us.
Now note that this controller when we do a kubectl get pods, it does not really create pod in the default
namespace.
In fact, there is a specific namespace which this controller uses, which is the ingress nginx namespace.
So when you do a kubectl get pods with the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx.
You see, this is the nginx ingress controller that we are looking for.
So it can take a little amount of time.
We have to wait for the status to be ready for this pod.
So when I do kubectl get pods again you have to ensure that the status is ready and the pod is running.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you is that this specific controller, when I do a kubectl
get service in the namespace of ingress.
Hyphen.
Nginx.
This controller has created a new service of type node port and you will see that there are two port
one is associated with 80, which is the HTTP.
Second is associated with the SSL TLS which is 443.
Now again, note that the type of node port that you see over here, I have modified it because this
is coming from our GitHub repository itself.
So I have modified the YAML file so that it works with node port in kube adm.
Otherwise it creates a default service type of load balancer.
Alright.
Anyways, even if it is a load balancer, this part will remain to be the same because load balancer
service type also uses the node port.
So now the next important step that I wanted to emphasize upon is the certificate.
Because since 443 port is open, there must be some certificate associated with it.
So generally when you try to make a curl request to the IP address of the server.
In my case, this is the IP address of the server.
So if I do a curl request with https followed by the IP address followed by the node port associated
with 443.
At this stage we are getting an error associated with self-signed certificate.
This is fine.
So now generally when you do a hyphen k, you will not really get that error related to self-signed
certificate and whatever page that might have been configured, you will get the appropriate result.
Now, one more thing that I wanted to emphasize upon is the certificate specific details.
So if I use hyphen k, hyphen v let's go a bit up.
One thing that I wanted to show you specifically related to server certificate.
So you see whatever default certificate that is configured, the common name for that certificate is
Kubernetes ingress controller fake certificate.
And in fact you can also try it out in the browser in case if you have a public IP.
So if I add it over here, it will show you this specific error.
Why?
Because it is a self-signed certificate.
If you look into the certificate detail you have a Kubernetes ingress controller fake certificate.
So ideally for the production environment what you would like instead of the fake certificate, you
will really like a signed certificate so that your domain works perfectly at a Https level.
So in order for us to understand on how that process works, we'll have to set up the ingress with TLS.
Now for today's video.
What we are going to do.
We are going to again create a self-signed certificate for our domain just for testing.
And similar steps will be required for production environment.
When you have a signed certificate and you don't really have to do this if you have a signed certificate.
But for the practical we'll be using this.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So I'll clear the screen I'll go to this folder of root Route ingress.
And then we'll use this specific command to generate a self-signed certificate for the domain of example
internal.
So if you see the domain is example internal the common name is example internal over here.
And you have the key you have the certificate.
Now if I do a ls over here this is the certificate.
And this is the key.
Great.
So this part over here we have already tested using hyphen kV.
Now the next important part as we know that for ingress with TLS, the certificate gets fetched from
the appropriate secret.
So this is the reason why here we are creating a secret of type TLS.
So in fact let me also show you.
Now when you do a cube CTL create secret hyphen hyphen help you see one of the option that is available
is TLS.
This is for TLS based secret.
So if you do a cube CTL Kubectl create secret.
The type is TLS with hyphen.
Hyphen help.
You will see there are two options over here.
These are the two important option.
One is you have to specify the certificate path and then you have to specify the key path.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
I'll say kubectl create secret.
The type is TLS.
The name of the secret.
We are going to call it as TLS certificate.
And then we are going to specify the cert path.
In this case, since the certificate is in the same directory we'll use ingress dot cert.
And the key is ingress dot key.
All right.
So a secret has been created.
Now when you do a cube CTL get secret over here you will see you have a TLS certificate as the secret
name.
And you can also do cube CTL describe secret followed by the name of the secret over here.
Make sure that you have the TLS certificate and you have the TLS key.
Once you have the secret with the appropriate certificate and a key that is created.
Next part is to go ahead and create a ingress that refers to this specific certificate.
Now, in order to do that, you can again run the cube CTL create ingress command with hyphen.
Hyphen help.
If you look into the basic usage you have cube CTL create ingress the name of the ingress.
Then you have the rule and then you have a comma.
You have a TLS equals to secret.
So this part is where you will specify the exact secret where the certificate and the keys are stored.
And this is the reason why if you will see in this specific command we have cube CTL create ingress.
The name of ingress is demo ingress.
Since we are using the nginx ingress controller I have also added the class equals to nginx and in the
rule you have example dot internal.
So this is a host based rule and it will route to example service comma TLS equals to the name of the
certificate.
Now, just for simplicity, before running this, if I do a dry run equals to client with the output
of YAML.
I just wanted to show you on how the manifest file looks like.
So in the spec over here you have host which is example dot internal.
And in the backend it is example service.
So whatever requests that comes for this domain that request will go to the example service.
And then we have also specified TLS in the TLS the host is example dot internal and in the secret name
you have TLS certificate.
Now one more thing that I wanted to emphasize upon specifically, if you look into the documentation
associated with ingress, we are more interested in the TLS part.
Now in here they have used a manifest file based approach where first they are creating a secret.
Then in the data you have TLS cert, you can add the base64 encoded CERT and TLS key base64 encoded
key.
This is also something that you can do, but the easier command is through the CLI.
So the CLI based approach is what we have used.
Along with that, they have also specified an example related to a TLS based ingress.
So you have a host over here you have a service.
And the important part is this.
So in the TLS you specify a host.
Whatever host it is.
So this is the one that is used here.
And the most important part is the secret name over here.
So you can also go ahead and copy the manifest file from here.
And you can go ahead and modify the manifest file based on your requirement.
However, just for simplicity we are using the kubectl create ingress command directly so that we don't
really have to jump between the documentation.
But still, you need to be aware that in the documentation of ingress all of the examples are available.
So in case if you don't remember the command, you can directly get it from the documentation page.
Great.
So let's go ahead and create our ingress Now when you do a cube CTL get ingress, you have a ingress
over here called as demo ingress.
And in fact when you do a cube CTL describe ingress followed by demo ingress.
Just verify that example dot internal host.
The back end is example service and the pod IP is also being populated along with that.
The most important part for today's video is this you have to ensure that this appears.
So in the TLS you have the TLS certificate.
So this is the secret name.
It terminates at example dot internal.
So to test the entire setup now what we are going to do we are going to manually add the entry in the
etc. host file.
So I'll copy the IP address of the server I'll add it here I'll do example dot internal and I'll save
this.
Now we are going to go ahead and make a curl request on the example internal followed by the node port.
So the node port was 31189.
So when you make a request something similar to this, you get a message.
The plain HTTP request was sent to https port.
So in such cases what you can do, you can go ahead and you can just use a Https over here.
If everything is working you should see welcome to nginx page.
Now one more thing that you have to verify over here is that your certificate and your key are being
used as part of this Https connection, and not that fake certificate that we had seen earlier.
So in such case you can use hyphen k v command.
And make sure that.
Let's go a bit up.
Make sure that in the server certificate the common name here is example dot internal and the O is security.
So this here means that whatever certificate and key that we had set up as part of ingress.
Those are the certificate and keys that are used as part of this connection.
All right.
Now generally when we discuss about production environment, this specific step where we generated a
self-signed certificate, this is something that you will not use.
So when you have a signed certificate that you get so you create a secret with the signed certificate
and rest all of the steps remains to be the same.
All right.
So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood on how you can set up ingress with TLS.
Now generally from exam perspective in case if such question comes you will get the certificate.
You will get the key and they will ask you to set up the ingress with TLS.
Great.
So that's a high level overview about this specific topic.
Make sure that after you have completed the practicals, you can go ahead and delete all of the resources
that have been created through this specific GitHub page, including removing the ingress controller.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Container Runtime Interface (CRI) ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the container runtime interface.
Now one point that we have to keep a note of is that in the earlier stage of developments, Kubernetes
had a tight coupling with Docker, and this was directly integrated as part of the Kubelet code as well.
So in the earlier versions of Kubernetes, the Kubelet interacted with the containers primarily through
the Docker engine over here.
So this is one point that we have to keep a note of.
Now, as the time progressed and the container ecosystem evolved, there were new runtimes that were
emerging.
Like container you have Cri-o, you have Mirantis, etc. and when you have new container runtimes that
were emerging to support them, Kubernetes introduced the container runtime interface as part of the
Kubernetes.
And now you will see that there are multiple popular CRI compatible container runtimes that are available.
You have Containerd, you have Cri-o, you have Docker Engine that is supported through CRI Docker.
D you also have Mirantis, container runtime and so on.
Now note that at a later stage when you had the container runtime interface, this specific tight coupling
with the Docker was removed and organizations had much more better flexibility on what type of container
runtime they want to use in the environment.
Now discussing about the container runtime interface.
At a very high level overview, you can consider it to be like a plugin interface or an API that allows
the Kubelet to communicate with various container runtimes.
For example, let's assume that you have a worker node, and in the worker node you have the Kubelet.
Now this Kubelet through the container runtime interface, it can connect to the appropriate container
runtime, and it is the container runtime that is responsible for creating and managing the containers.
Now, as we are discussing in the earlier version of Kubernetes, there was a very tight coupling between
a Kubelet and Docker, and this was also as part of the Kubelet code.
And this tight coupling created a lot of issues specifically related to the newer runtimes that organizations
might wanted to use.
And this is the reason why, to keep things much more flexible, you have the container runtime interface
and any container runtime that supports the container runtime interface.
The Kubelet will be able to connect to the appropriate container runtime, and the containers can be
created and managed accordingly.
Now, one more thing that we have to keep a note of is that container runtime is one of the foundational
softwares that allows the containers to operate on the host system, and it is the container runtime
that is responsible for various important tasks like pulling the container images, managing the container
lifecycle, and running the container on the host system.
So container runtime is extremely important.
Now ultimately what Kubelet will do is it receives the instruction from the kube API server and whatever
instruction it receives, like a new port needs to be created.
This instructions will be passed on to the appropriate container runtime, stating that new containers
from this image needs to be created, and it is the container runtime which creates the appropriate
containers.
Now, when you look into the documentation associated with the container runtime interface, let's look
into it.
It states that the CRI is a plugin interface, which enables the Kubelet to use a wide variety of container
runtimes without having a need to recompile the cluster components.
Something similar to what we saw in the first slide, where there was a direct integration of Dockershim
in the Kubelet code.
So this is something that needs to be avoided because there are a wide variety of container runtimes
for each container runtime.
You don't really want a hard integration, and this is the reason why the container runtime interface
proves to be very important.
Note that this is not like a software component, it is the way in which the Kubelet connects to the
appropriate container runtime.
Now the second point also states that you need a working container runtime on each node in your cluster,
so that the Kubelet can launch the pod and their containers.
So the Kubelet is not responsible for creating the The containers.
It is the container runtime that is responsible for that.
And the third point is very important, which states that the container runtime interface is the main
protocol for the communication between the Kubelet and the container runtime.
Something similar to what you see over here.
And the fourth point states that the container runtime interface in turn defines the main gRPC protocol
for the communication between the node components, which are the Kubelet and the container runtime.
So using this, the Kubelet connects to the container runtime.
You have a common set of protocols which the Kubelet as well as the container runtime understands.
And this is how the communication happens.
Now discussing about the container runtime, let's go ahead and look into what are the options that
are available.
Now within your one point that we were discussing, even here, it is written that the Kubernetes releases
before version 1.24 included a direct integration with Docker Engine using a component named Docker
shim, and this direct integration has been removed and it is no longer part of the Kubernetes.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now discussing about the container runtime, one more point to note is that the Kubernetes requires
that you use the container runtime that conforms to the container runtime interface.
This is very important, and there are multiple set of container runtimes that are available.
For example you have container D, you have Cri-o, you have Docker Engine using the CRI docker D,
and you also have the Mirantis container runtime.
Now if you go a bit down, these are some of the generic configurations that you might have to do,
but we are more interested in container runtime specific details.
So in the container runtime the first one is the container D.
And within here it is showing some of the important configurations related to each container runtime
like for example the default CRI socket and so on.
And similar configurations will be for Cri-o and Docker Engine and others.
Now, depending upon what container runtime you want to use, you can go ahead and look into the appropriate
instructions here.
Now, let me quickly give you an overview on how things might look like in a Kubernetes based cluster.
Now if you'll quickly do kubectl get nodes currently you see we have one node that is available and
the status is ready.
Now within here since this node for example when I do kubectl get pods, currently I have some pods
that are running.
Now we know that since the pods that are running, you must have a container runtime and you must also
have a kubelet.
So if I do systemctl status kubelet.
At this stage we have the Kubelet component that is available.
Now, in fact, let's quickly revise the cluster architecture.
Otherwise this will lead to confusion.
So generally you have some main components as part of the control plane like the API server, etcd scheduler,
controller manager, etc. and in each node you will have a Kubelet and you will have a kube proxy.
We are more interested in the Kubelet Kubelet as we know it connects to the appropriate container runtime
and containers are created.
So here you see you have a CRE container runtime interface.
So when the kube API server sends a message to the Kubelet stating that you need to run one pod based
on nginx image.
So kubelet, once it receives the instruction from the kube API server, it will pass it on to the appropriate
container runtime through the CRE and the container runtime in turn will create the appropriate containers.
So here we are discussing about the Kubelet component.
Now let's clear the screen.
Now in this specific system I have a container runtime of container D.
If you see I have container D container runtime, the status is active and running.
So ultimately it is the Kubelet that connects to this container runtime for the appropriate instructions.
Now let's take a simple example where I'll go ahead and I'll stop the container runtime and we'll see
the impact.
So I'll say systemctl stop container D.
Now as soon as you have done that, let's say I'll run a command cube CTL run test pod with the image
of nginx.
So it says test pod is created.
Now when I do kubectl get pods at this stage the test pod is in the container creating stage.
Let's run it again.
Again.
You see the test pod is in the container creating stage.
Now when you do kubectl describe pod test pod over here, you see we are getting an error.
What it says failed to create a pod sandbox error while dialing the socket.
So you have a container dot sock, and the kubelet in the node is not able to connect to the container
the to relay the appropriate instructions.
And since container D is not listening, no containers will be created.
So if I do kubectl get pods again it will be in the container creating stage only.
So it is very important to have the container runtime available.
At this stage it is inactive.
So let's go ahead and start our container runtime over here.
Once this is done when I do kubectl get pods.
You see our test pod is currently running.
Now before we conclude, I also wanted to give you a gist on a specific tool called as the CRI CTL at
an overview.
The CRI CTL is designed to interact with the container runtime that implements the CRI specifications.
So using the cry CTL you can interact with the container runtime.
Again, it is not specific to a container runtime like Containerd.
Even if you have another container runtime like Cri-o etc., the cri CTL will work.
The only requirement is that whatever container runtime is available, it follows the container runtime
interface specifications and this is how the interactions will happen.
Now let me also quickly show you.
So I have a crystal that is available.
For example, if I say cri CTL pods you will get the information here.
If I say cri ctl images.
You will get the details of the images that are available.
You can also pull the images so cry CTL pull let's say httpd latest.
So this can also pull the images here in case if you would like.
Now in our case the image is already up to date.
Now within your.
If you quickly look into the crystal dot YAML within here we have explicitly added the runtime endpoint,
which is the container dot sock, and also the image endpoint of container dot sock.
Again, depends on the container runtime.
If you have a different container runtime, then this specific part will change.
So in this case you can consider crystal to be the client container D to be the appropriate server.
And since both of them understands and implements the container runtime interface, they will be able
to communicate pretty effectively.
Alright, so I hope with this at a very high level overview, you have understood the basics of the
container runtime interface.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Configuring cri-docker ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the configuration related to the CRI docker d.
Now at an overview, the cri docker d is primarily like an adapter that implements the Kubernetes container
runtime interface for Docker.
Now, earlier the shim was as part of the Kubelet, so the code was integrated within the Kubelet and
the Kubelet was able to directly communicate with the Docker engine.
However, at a later stage to support multiple container runtimes, this hard coding of the code as
part of the Kubelet was removed, and in this case, if you wanted the Kubelet and the Docker engine
communication to work, you can go ahead and make use of the CRI dockerd, which will act as an adapter
for that.
So in this case, the Docker engine will be responsible for creating and managing the containers in
your environment.
So at an overview it will translate the container runtime interface gRPC calls from Kubernetes into
the Docker API calls.
Now in today's video what we are going to do first in a server, we are going to set up the Docker Engine.
This Docker engine is responsible for creating and managing the containers.
Now Kubelet directly cannot interact with the Docker engine, so you will need one more component which
acts as a middleman, which is the CRI docker d.
So the kubelet will connect to the cri docker de cri de coeur d as we know it will translate the appropriate
cri gRPC calls from Kubernetes to the Docker API calls over here.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
Now the cri docker d is managed under mirantis.
So if you see you have the appropriate instruction what it states.
This adapter provides a shim for Docker engine that lets you control Docker via the Kubernetes container
runtime interface.
Now for today's practical, I have a fresh server based on ubuntu 24 LTS in this server.
First we are going to install the Docker engine.
We are going to use the cri docker d, and then we are going to set up the cube adm and will test the
entire setup.
Now I have already documented all the steps as part of the guide.
So we are going to follow the guide and we are also going to understand what exactly are the steps here.
One of the first and a very important step is to install the Docker.
As we have seen in the diagram, the Docker engine is something that is going to be used.
Now before we start configuring the docker d the Docker engine needs to be available.
So this is the reason why primarily in the step one we are going to install Docker and related packages.
So let's copy this and I'll go ahead and I'll run it here.
Great.
Once this is done you can just verify.
You can say systemctl status docker.
You have Docker that is running.
And if you run commands like Docker PS you should get an output.
Or if you run commands like docker info, this is also where you will get the output.
Once we have Docker configured now, the next step is to configure the cri docker d.
Now in order to configure the CRI docker d, you can within this specific repository.
Again, there are multiple ways to do that.
We are going to look into one specific way.
So within here if you will see there are multiple set of assets that are available depending upon the
architecture.
The one that we are going to use is this specific one.
This is going to be the dev file.
So this is the reason why what we are doing.
We are downloading this dev file.
If you see we are downloading this dev file let's copy this.
And once you have this available you can install it from here.
So you can run the D package hyphen I on this specific file.
And once you have done that you can just verify using systemctl status cri docker.
At this stage you see it is available.
And it clearly states that it is the CRI interface for Docker application container engine.
So let's go ahead and clear the screen.
And one more thing that you have to remember is that whenever you install something, make sure to also
enable it.
Because in case if the system restarts, this will not automatically start.
So this will create an issue.
So you have to make sure that you run the systemctl enable command on the cry docker.
So at this stage we have the Docker engine that is installed.
We also have the cry docker d that is configured.
So now we'll require the kubelet and the appropriate Kubernetes components.
And the easiest way to get it done is through kube adm.
Now sometimes in the exams they can ask you a question to configure the cry docker.
In such case what will happen is the Docker engine would be available.
And what you will have to do is you just have to install the cry docker d.
Now we have already looked into the steps using the D package, so you will have to remember the steps
at a high level.
Overview.
However, in today's video, we are exploring the complete setup so that we have a better understanding
on how things work.
So in the step number three, we are going to set the appropriate kernel parameter since we are going
to install Qbm.
Let's copy this.
Let's run it over here.
Also, the next command will run it over here.
Once this is done, we'll configure the appropriate repository related to kube adm.
Now at this stage, note that we have already discussed about kube ADM and its associated installation
steps.
And this is the reason why we are not going to study about each step related to kube ADM installation
in detail.
The only thing that was unique for today's video was the Docker engine and the cry docker.
And also at a high level overview.
You should know on how we can make Kubelet connect to the appropriate socket related to the cry docker.
We'll just see it in a moment.
So as part of the step four, let's go ahead and configure the appropriate repository to install the
kube ADM version.
So I'll copy this.
Once this is done we'll go ahead and install the appropriate components like the kube ADM, the CRI
tools, the cube, CTL, etc..
I'll copy this.
Let's run it here.
Great.
So once this is done, the next step is to initialize the cluster using cube adm.
So within here.
One point to note is that we are explicitly specifying the CRI socket.
So again this is one point to note which states that the CRI docker db provides its own socket which
kubelet can connect to, and this is the socket in var run cri docker dot sock.
So if kubelet wants to connect to the cri docker d, it has to make use of this socket.
And this is the reason why when we are configuring the cube ADM, we are explicitly stating that the
CRI socket is going to be this specific one.
So let's copy this.
I'll go ahead and I'll press enter.
So this can take 2 to 3 minutes.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here.
Great.
So the initialization has been completed I'll clear the screen.
So we'll set the appropriate cube config files.
Will also remove the taint on the control plane node so that we can schedule the pods on top of it.
And then the most important part when you do kubectl get nodes, you will see that the status is not
ready.
So we have to set up the appropriate network and its plugins.
So we are going to install the network add ons.
In this case it is going to be calico.
Let's copy this.
I'll clear the screen.
We'll go ahead and install it.
Let's copy the second command.
Great.
Once you have done that you can run the cube CTL get nodes command.
At this stage the node status is not ready.
This is fine.
Give it a minute and the status should be changed to ready.
So I'll clear the screen.
And if we run it again you see the status has changed to ready.
Now in order to verify if everything is working, you can go ahead and run the cube CTL run command
to create a new nginx pod.
Let's quickly do that.
Now when you do kubectl get pods, we have one pod.
The status is container.
Creating.
This is fine.
Just give it a moment.
And if we run it again you see our nginx pod is running.
Now at this stage, since we have Docker engine, you can directly also use the docker command.
So if you do docker PS, you see there are so many containers that are running.
One among them is the nginx which we have just created.
Now to understand things in a much more better way, let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and use the systemctl to stop the Docker service.
Let's verify.
Now if you see the status is inactive.
Once this is stopped at this stage note that the docker is still running.
So if I say systemctl status docker Docker is still running.
And and since it is running, the containers are also running.
Now let's go ahead and try to create one more port of nginx to with the same image of nginx.
Once you have done that, when you do kubectl get pods, you see, this time the nginx pod two is in
the pending state and when you do kubectl describe pod nginx two.
Now at this stage we only get a message that it was successfully assigned to the node of kube adm.
And that's about it.
There is no further message now since you also have kubelet that is running.
You also have a Kubelet that is running.
When you do a journal CTL on the Kubelet, I'll press shift G and you will see in the kubelet there
are multiple errors that have started specifically related to the CRI docker dot sock.
Now we know that the Kubelet needs to connect to the docker engine, and for that it will require a
shim.
And this is where the cri docker d was configured.
So Kubelet was supposed to send a message to the cri de cri de coeur d will convert that to the appropriate
API calls on Docker and the containers will be created.
Since the cri docker d is not available, you are getting connection refused.
And this is the reason why, as we know, the new ports are not really getting created.
Once you go ahead and start the CRI docker again.
Now when you do kubectl get pods, this time you see the pending message went away, it went to container
creating and if you run it once again we have our nginx pod number two that is successfully running
great.
So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the importance of cri docker d.
Now again, from what I have seen, most of the organizations they generally do not use this.
They directly have the container D or maybe cri-o and the Kubelet interacts with those container runtimes
directly.
However, sometimes in some organizations there is a requirement where you have a Docker engine.
In such case the CRI docker d proves to be useful.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Kubernetes Events ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about Cuban.
It is events now at a high level overview.
Kubernetes events are created when other resources have state changes, errors or other messages that
should be broadcasted to the system.
Now, let's say that you have created a port.
Now you want to see more details related to it.
So what you can do?
You can look up into the events.
So if you look into the screenshot, you can see that from the default scheduler.
This specific port with the name of Engine X is being assigned to a node as the second node over here.
Then you also have certain messages related to Kubernetes, like it is pulling up the engine image.
It has started the container of engine X and so on.
So in the best case scenario, this might not prove to be very useful, but if things are not really
working well, then Kubernetes even proves to be very useful.
So at a high level overview, Kubernetes events provides insights into what is happening inside the
cluster, such as what are the decisions that are being made by the scheduler, or why some ports have
been evicted from the node.
So let's do one thing before we proceed further.
Let's quickly look into it.
So currently I'm within my CLI and if you will do QC, it'll events over here.
At this stage you are getting a null response over here.
Now the question that comes is how come?
Because we have been using this manage cluster since a long time.
We have created so many ports, so many deployment services, etc. Still, the events are not present
now within the API server documentation.
If you look into the event duration over here, it clearly states that the amount of time to retain
the events and the default time is one hour.
So after one hour the events will not be retained.
So this is one of the reasons why even though you have created multiple resources, still the events
are no longer present here.
In case if you want the events to be present for a longer duration, you can also connect some external
monitoring system with Kubernetes that can store the events data.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create some resource that will generate some events here.
So I'll take you city run the name of the port.
We'll just say as event port and I'll start it from the image of engine X.
All right, now if you do a cube, it'll get ports.
You see, we have an event port that is available.
We also have some deployment.
This is from a different lecture altogether anyways.
Now if you do a cube, it'll get events now and within you see it states that successfully assigned
the event port to this specific worker node.
It is also giving you information related to pulling images started the container and so on.
Now along with that we also have some older deployment that is running let's quickly verify.
So the name of the deployment is demo deployment.
So let's go ahead and quickly delete this deployment.
All right.
Now, again, if you do a cube kill, get events over here.
This time there are three events that are generated specifically related to the Demo Deployment Warrior,
and this time the reason is killing grid.
So I hope that this you understood at a high level overview about the basics of events.
Now, as we're also discussing related to the disk space, know that all the events are generally stored
in the master server, the Kubernetes master server, and to avoid filling of the master disk retention
policies in force where events are removed one hour after the last occurrence.
Or this is very similar to what we were discussing.
And the last important point of this video is related to the events and namespaces.
Note that the events are namespace.
So for example, let's say that you have a namespace called Skip Elapsed Hyphen namespace and you want
to see the events related to this namespace.
Then you'll have to explicitly also specify the hyphen hyphen namespace associated with the namespace.
If you want to see the events, for example, let's quickly do a cube.
It'll get namespace over here.
Now there are multiple namespaces that are available, so let's go ahead and do a cube.
So it'll get events and we'll specify the namespace, let's say cube hyphen system.
So from here you are not releasing any event.
However, if you change it to just default namespace here as expected, we are seeing all of these events
here.
Great.
So that's the high level overview about Kubernetes events.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- Understanding Field Selectors ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about field selectors.
Now at a high level overview, field selectors lets you select the community's resource based on the
value of one or more resource fields.
So if you look into the screenshot, let's take an example where you want to list all of the ports that
are running in the Kubernetes cluster except the one that are part of the default namespace.
So it can happen that there are 100 namespaces in a Kubernetes cluster and each namespace has certain
ports, and you want to list all the ports except that of the default namespace.
So when you have such use cases, when you want to search for a specific type of object based on a specific
constraint, you can make use of a field selector.
So if you look into this sample command, you have cube, ctrl, gate, ports, all namespaces.
So this is quite fine.
This will go ahead and list all the ports from all the namespaces.
And then we are also using a field selector over here and within the field selector we are specifying
metadata namespace is not equal to default.
So that would mean that in all of the ports whose metadata namespace value is not is equal to default,
those ports will be listed and in the namespace section over here on the left, you will see that there
are multiple ports that are appearing from the cube system namespace.
All right.
So there is a lot of flexibility that you can make use of with field selector to achieve a specific
use case.
So let's quickly look into it now.
When you do a cube, it'll get ports and we'll say all namespaces as expected.
You see that there are ports appearing from the default namespace, then you have ports appearing from
the cube system namespace and also a port that is appearing from a namespace called Steam A.
Now let's go ahead and try out the field selector where we want to list all of the ports except to that
of the default namespace.
So I'll clear the screen.
We'll use the same command as earlier, but this time we'll use a field selector of metadata.
Dot namespace is not equal to default.
Alright.
So now you see the board which was part of the default namespace, no longer appears.
All right, so I hope with this you got a gist on what the field selector allows you to do.
Now, similar to what we're discussing, it's not just about namespace.
You can use various other things like name as well.
For example, let's say instead of namespace will give the name and basically I want to see all the
ports except a specific name.
And what is the name that will make use of let's say I'll make use of this, which is which five years.
So I'll put it over here.
So this time you'll see that the port that was ending with five is, it is no longer listed over here.
Great.
So let's quickly clear the screen.
Now, currently, if I do a cube, it'll get ports over here.
We have one port that is available.
Let's also quickly create a new deployment.
I'll just say test deployment with the replicas of three and the image of engine x grid.
Now, when you do a cube, it'll get events.
All right, so you see that there are multiple events over here.
Specifically, if you see these are many new events related to the test deployment over here.
So before that, we also had some events related to the demo deployment.
And from the reason itself, we can identify that this specific deployment was being deleted.
We also have some events related to the port over here and so on.
So let's say that there is a use case in the examples where you want to find all the events related
to a specific object, let's say a port.
All right.
So if I quickly do a cube, it'll get ports.
We have a port over here, and the question states that all the events should be listed, but only associated
with a given port.
No other ports or deployments or replica sets.
Events should be searched.
So how can you solve that question?
You can also solve that question using the field selector.
So let's quickly look into it.
So when you do a cube, it'll get events.
This time we'll use the output of JSON.
Let's go a bit up now if you'll see that this is a specific event.
Now in this event, under the invalid object, you have a kind of deployment and the name is test deployment.
So this specific event is related to the deployment to Warrior.
Similarly, if we go a bit up, you see that this specific event is related to the replica set.
Let's go a bit further.
You have certain events related to ports as well.
So now if you want to go ahead and look up for the events related to a specific port, what you can
do, you can say Cube, it'll get events, I'll add a field selector and in the field selector.
If we look into the events, what happens is first thing is invalid object.
Inside this invalid object, you have various identifiers like the kind of port and the name of this
deployment.
So let's say field selector of invalid object dot name is equal to event hyphen port.
And now you see we are only seeing the events associated this event port and this field selector proves
to be very useful not only from the exam perspective, but also if you're troubleshooting and there
are thousands of events, it becomes really difficult to go ahead and look into the specific event that
you need.
So field selector works pretty well here.
Great.
So I hope that this you understood the basics of field selector.
Before we conclude, do note that as part of the default configuration, whenever you run various commands
like CTL, gate ports, etc., at that stage by default, no selector filters are applied, meaning
all the resources of the specified type are selected for that namespace.
So this makes queries like Ctrl gate ports.
So let's say you run a cube, so it'll get ports.
It is equivalent to cube, it'll get ports, hyphen, hyphen, field, selector and empty containers
here.
So let's quickly look into it.
So if I do a cube, it'll get ports.
So this is quite equivalent to cube.
It'll get ports, hyphen, hyphen, field selector or warrior.
So you see the response of both of them are quite identical.
Great.
So that's the high level overview and with this will conclude today's video.

--- Understanding Docker Logging Drivers ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about the Docker logging drivers.
Now, typically in a Linux or Unix subsystem, whenever you run a Unix and Linux command, they open
up three input output streams.
Now these are referred as standard input.
You have standard output and you have standard error.
And similar applies for the Docker containers that you are running.
So let's say you have running certain Docker containers.
Now these would have a standard input.
It will also have a standard output.
It will also have a standard error.
Now if you remember during the earlier videos where we were discussing about the importance of the IT
flag, now generally in Docker we specify the hyphen I and hyphen T flag so that your terminal basically
attaches to the standard input.
So standard input is where you would provide the input to this specific process or the command.
So you have a bash where you can specify some input like command or a CD command.
So that input can come from various sources like keyboard.
So that is what standard input is.
Now standard output is where, let's say let's take an example of Enginex now.
So Nginx can have a lot of access logs within its standard output.
So those access logs, so you have let's assume you have Nginx running on port 80 and 100 people are
connecting to your Nginx so those logs nginx can share it to the standard output.
You also have standard error where you have error related logs that can be present over here.
So Docker allows you to monitor the standard output as well as the standard error with the help of various
type of logging drivers.
Because many times it is important for you to see what is the standard output data, what is the standard
error data?
So those can be achieved with the help of logging driver.
So let's quickly understand this with a quick practical demo.
So I'm in my CLI if I quickly do a docker.
PS currently we do not have any container up and running, so let's quickly start a container.
I'll say docker container run, I'll specify hyphen D, I'll say name as my BusyBox.
I'll start it from the BusyBox image and we'll run the command called as ping on Google.com.
All right, so now if you do a Docker, PS, you should see that you have a container and the command
which is constantly running is ping, google.com.
So this output of this specific command, which is running this output, it can share it to the standard
output.
So if you want to see a standard output or even a standard error associated with this specific container,
you can make use of the Docker logs command.
So you can see Docker logs.
My busy box.
And now you see, you are able to see the output of the command which is running, which is it is able
to get the reply associated with Google.com server.
So I hope at a high level overview you understood what the Docker logs command does.
Docker Logs command allows you to get the standard output as well as the standard error associated with
the container.
Now there are a lot of type of logging drivers because if you if you remember, if when we had pressed
the Docker logs.
So this should be stored in some kind of a file, let's say you might want to send it in a centralized
location.
So depending upon your requirement, you can make use of certain logging drivers which are available
in Docker.
So if you basically do a Docker info command within the log here, you see there are various type of
logging drivers.
You have logs, you have fluentd, you have GCP logs, you have journaled Json file, local Splunk syslog
and various others.
So these are the types of logging drivers which are available for the Docker.
Now, depending upon the requirement, let's say that you want to send all the logs for Docker.
Let's say you have something similar to the demo that we did.
We are doing a ping on google.com and you want to send all of those standard output logs to the AWS
Cloudwatch service.
So then you can make use of the logging driver of logs.
If you want to send it to a splunk instance, you can use the Splunk driver.
If you want to send it to syslog, you can use a syslog driver and various others.
Now typically if you quickly do a Docker info and let's grep on logging driver, you would see that
there will be one logging driver which is the default one.
So in this case the logging driver, which is the default one is Json hyphen file.
So anytime when you create a container and you do not specify a logging driver by default, Docker will
associate the Json hyphen file logging driver with your container so we can even find it out.
So if you do a Docker inspect on my BusyBox, let's do that and let's go a bit up.
So here you will see within the log config you have the type as Json hyphen file.
Now along with that, one important part to remember is because we are making use of the Docker logs
command.
Let's open this up.
So all of these data that you see over here, it gets stored in a file.
So in case if you want to see on which file all of the logs are being stored, you can do it with Docker
inspect.
So if you go a bit up, you will see that there is a log path over here and this is the log path where
all of the logs are getting stored.
So let's copy this log path and if you do a less here, you will be able to see all of the logs.
Now these are within the Json format, but these are the logs which are being shown from when you do
a Docker log.
So all of these logs are being stored in this specific directory.
Now along with that, let's quickly do a Docker.
PS Let's assume that you want to create new container with a different logging driver.
That is something that you will be able to do.
So let's try it out.
I'll say Docker container run.
You can specify the log driver.
I'll specify none over here.
All right.
I'll start from BusyBox image and we can do a ping on google.com.
Now if you do a docker, PS this time you have a log driver of none.
So basically this will not really capture the standard output as well as standard error.
Now if you do a docker logs on my custom.
It basically says that error response from daemon configured logging driver does not support reading.
So depending upon the logging driver that you choose, the amount of configuration which is required
would differ.
Now a few important details that you need to remember.
The first is that there are a lot of logging drivers which are available in Docker.
We have already seen now some of these logging driver includes you have Json file, you have none,
you have syslog, you have local, you have journaled Splunk logs and there are various others which
are also available.
Now comes the important point that the Docker Logs command is not available for the drivers other than
Json file and journaled.
So when we did a Docker logs command and it basically showed you the entire output.
So the reason why it was able to show you the output because the driver that we were using was of type
Json file.
Now if you are using some custom driver like Splunk, like logs, et cetera, then the Docker logs will
not really show you any output.
So that's about it for the logging driver.
Now do remember that depending upon the logging driver that you choose, there can be certain caveats
that can happen.
So let's say you are choosing a syslog based logging driver and you have a centralized syslog server
and due to some reason your server went down, your centralized syslog server went down, then there
can be a chance that whatever logs that are being shown in the standard output, they will be lost.
So make sure that whichever logging driver that you implement for your environment understand about
the advantages as well as the disadvantages of those logging driver and then only implement them accordingly.
So this is the high level overview about the logging drivers which are available in Docker.
I hope this video has been informative for you and look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Monitoring Application Logs ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we had a great introduction about the logging aspects as far as the Docker
containers are concerned.
Now, the similar aspect applies even for Kubernetes, because in the end, Kubernetes also launches
the containers.
So let's go ahead and look into the logging related aspects as far as the Kubernetes is concerned.
Now for our demo purposes, we have a simple pod Yaml file over here.
The name that we have given here is ping container and we are basically launching it from the BusyBox.
And the command that we are supplying here is Ping and the argument here is Google.com.
So what this will do is it will create a BusyBox container and that BusyBox container will continuously
ping to the Google.com domain.
So let's quickly go ahead and deploy this.
So I'll do a kubectl apply on pod hyphen logging dot yaml.
So now if you do a kubectl get pods you will see that there is one pod which is currently running and
let's quickly do a cube Ctl logs and then you can specify the pod name over here.
So as soon as you specify the pod name, you will get the standard output, which is basically the output
when the ping command happens.
So the output generally is like 64 bytes.
So like when you do a ping on Google.com, let me quickly show you.
So you see the output looks something similar to this.
And exactly this is what we are looking here with the help of the cube Ctl logs Pod zero one command.
Now similar thing that we had seen specifically when we were debugging when things are not working.
So one recent example that let me quickly show you that.
So when you do a cube, Ctl get pods on the namespace of cube system.
So we had basically debugged on y Matrix server was earlier not working.
So in order for us to debug, we basically ran the Cube Ctl command, followed by the name, followed
by the name of the pod, and we had also specified the namespace where the pod was running.
So here we see the output.
So this is basically the logs associated with the application which is running within the matrix server.
So the kubectl logs command proves to be very important specifically when things are not working as
expected.
Now this is one scenario.
Many a times a pod can have multiple containers.
So I have one more file called as multi container hyphen hyphen logging dot yaml.
So here we have basically two containers within a pod.
The first container is ping container hyphen domain and the second container name is ping container
hyphen IP.
So within the ping container hyphen domain we are basically pinging the domain of google.com.
And within the ping container hyphen IP, we are basically pinging the IP address directly.
So we are not really pinging the domain.
So let's call it as Port zero two and let's go ahead and deploy it.
All right.
So it says that the Port zero two is created.
So if you do a kubectl get pods, so it is still in the container creating stage, note that it is zero
out of two.
So from here, you can basically identify how many containers are present within a specific pod.
So let's run this again.
And currently two out of two containers within a pod are currently running.
So here let's say that we want to look into the logs.
So when you do a cube, Ctl logs followed by Pod zero two, it will immediately give you an error saying
that this specific pod has multiple containers.
All right.
So it is saying that this pod has a container called as ping container domain and also a container called
as ping container IP.
So whenever you want to look into the logs associated with a pod, which has multiple containers, then
not only you have to specify the pod name, but you will also have to specify the container name within
the pod.
So here if I do a ping container hyphen domain here, you will see the output associated with the domain.
And when you do a ping container hyphen IP, again, you will see the output related to the second container.
All right.
So I hope you understood about how you can fetch the logs from the container for the applications which
are sending it to the standard out.
So that's the quick overview about the logging aspect.
As far as the applications are concerned within Kubernetes, I hope this video has been informative
for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Monitoring Cluster Component Logs ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll be discussing about the cluster component logs.
Now for every component within the cluster, be it a cube API server, the scheduler, the controller
manager, the Kubelet and others, all of them have the log files associated with them.
And whenever you are troubleshooting something logs becomes the primary factor based on which you can
identify the issue.
Now, if we are making use of a system, then you can look into the component level logs with the help
of the Journalctl command.
Now we have extensively made use of Journalctl while we were configuring our Kubernetes cluster from
scratch.
So I hope you understood what exactly this does.
Now within the official documentation over here, you will see that under the section of looking at
the logs, they have specified the log files associated with various components.
So for the master server components, you have log kube API server dot log.
So this is for the API server.
Then you have the kube scheduler dot log and you have the kube controller manager dot log.
So this is for the master component.
For the worker component you have Kubelet dot log under the var log directory and you have the kube
proxy dot log for the kube proxy component.
But make sure that you read through the first line which states that here are the location of the relevant
log files.
Note that on the system based systems you may need to make use of a journal instead.
So if you are making use of the system, you no longer need to go here.
You can directly make use of the journal Ctl to look into the log files associated with the specific
unit.
Now I'm in my Kubernetes master server that we had configured earlier.
Now if you quickly go to Etsy systemd system, Kube API server dot service.
All right, so this is basically the unit of the Kubernetes API server.
Now if you want to look into the log files associated with this, then you can make use of journal Ctl,
specify the unit which is the Kube API server, and here you will be able to see all the logs associated
with it.
So when you do a page down button, you can skim through the logs so that you understand at which point
you get an error.
So currently you see that there are a lot of logs which are currently available over here.
So if you want to directly go into the last line, you can press shift plus G and you will directly
be added to the last line over here.
So shift G, something that you can make use of.
Now along with that, you can also play around here, so you can also do something like F, So F basically
means that it is doing a watcher.
So any new logs that might come, those logs will be coming over here.
So currently there are no activities here, hence there are no logs which are present.
But if there are new log lines, you will be able to see it over here.
So f option provides a important functionality.
So currently you see you have one more log line which got added over here so you can do a Ctrl C to
come out of it.
Now let's run the earlier command again.
Let's remove the F.
You can also do a sense here.
However, before doing that, let's look into the date.
So this is the date here.
So let's specify 2019 zero nine and let's specify the date of 17 and let's specify the time of 14,
ten, ten.
All right, So this is the command here.
Let's go and remove the comment at the start.
So now what will happen is the start of this specific log file will be from the September 17th, from
the time that you had specified over here.
So if you will see you had specified 14, ten, ten.
So any log, which is after this specific time frame, is the one that will appear.
So this proves to be very important here.
So let's say that your cube API server is having some troubles, but it was working perfectly well.
But since the 7 a.m. in the morning you are having issues with the cube API server.
So what you want is you want to look into the cube API server logs since 7 a.m. because that is the
time frame where you started to get an error.
So with the help of since you will be able to filter the logs based on timestamp.
All right, now you can also make a better filter here where you can specify until.
So within until let's say 2019 zero 917 and specify a time frame, let's call it as 15 0000.
All right.
So now you'll only see the logs starting from 17th September 2019 from 2:10 p.m. to 17th September 2019
till 3 p.m..
So many times it happens that only for half an hour there were certain abnormal activities which were
going on in the Kube API server.
So if you just want to look into the logs for that specific time frame, let's say half an hour, you
can make use of the since command as well as the until command.
This proves to be very important here.
Now many times you will get a request from a specific customer that from 7 a.m. till 9 a.m., he was
not able to perform certain operations.
So you can go ahead and look into the log files based on the time frame that the client or the customer
has shared.
And then you can quickly look into the logs to see if there were any issues with the component there.
Alright, so I hope you understood on how you can go through the logs associated with the various components.
So in today's video we look into how we can make use of journal because we had created a cluster based
on systemd.
So with the help of journal how you can go ahead and look into the logs associated with different components
over here.
So that's the high level overview about the cluster component logs.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Pod Lifecycle Phases ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about the basics of the pod lifecycle
phases.
Now, one point that we have to keep a note of is that in Kubernetes, the pods go through several lifecycle
phases from pod creation to the pod termination year.
So understanding at a high level overview about these phases is crucial.
Specifically when you are debugging and managing the workloads in the cluster.
Now when we discuss about these lifecycle phases it starts with pending.
Then you can have running.
Then you can have succeeded.
Then you can also have failed.
And you also have unknown.
So these are the five primary lifecycle phases that are available.
Let's go ahead and at a high level overview look into each one of them.
So one of the first phases here is the pending.
Pending generally can mean that the pod is accepted by Kubernetes.
But the containers are not yet created.
So generally the pod can be as part of the pending phase due to lot of reason.
One of the reason being the scheduling, then it can also be in pending when the Kubernetes is downloading
the appropriate container image.
Now, one point that we have to keep a note of is that Pod can also stay in the pending phase, if there
are any issues with the scheduling.
So let's say that there are ten worker nodes.
Now the Kubernetes is not able to determine the appropriate worker node for the pod based on the requirement
that you have set.
So in such cases, the pod will continue to stay in pending phase till the time the appropriate worker
node is available that satisfy the requirements of a pod.
The second common phase is running.
This means that the pod has been bound to an appropriate worker node, and all of the containers as
part of the pod have been created.
It can also mean that at least one of the containers is running, or is in the process of starting or
restarting.
So if you see in the status, you have two pods in running state over here, then you have the phase
of succeeded.
This means that all the containers in the pod have been terminated in success and will not be restarted.
Now we are going to discuss about this in just a moment in a practical point of view.
However, if you see in the status you have completed and this is the test board.
So maybe whatever application that was running or whatever script that you had defined as part of the
port, that script has been completed successfully and the port operation has been succeeded here.
Then you have the phase of field.
Again, this can occur due to multiple set of reasons.
Here you can consider in multiple scenarios that all the containers in the pods have been terminated,
and at least one container has terminated in failure here.
And then you have the phase of unknown.
So unknown is generally due to some reason the state of port could not be obtained.
Many a times it happens when there is an error in communication with the worker node, in which the
port should ideally be running.
Now, before we start with the practical, one more thing that we have to be aware of is related to
the port status field.
Now generally when you run kubectl get pods, you get the status field over here and in the status you
also get a message.
So at a high level overview, the status column in commands like kubectl get pods does not always directly
map to the five official pod lifecycle phases.
For example, here the status is pending and the phase is also pending.
So this is simple to understand.
Then you have a phase of running.
The status is also running.
Then you have a phase of succeeded but the status is not succeeded.
The status is a little different.
It shows completed.
Then in this screenshot you see the status is little different.
It is image pull back of.
It is not one of the five official phases that we just discussed.
So just keep a note.
That status column provides more human readable summary of the pods current state.
It might not always map to the five official pod lifecycle phases directly when we compare it with the
status column output.
So let's also understand this.
So when we discuss about pending phase in pending phase the status can be pending.
It can be container creating, it can be image pull, backup, etc. similarly succeeded face.
The status can be completed, failed face, the status can be error, failed, etc..
So this is one point that we have to keep a note of.
Now before we look into various other phases, let's quickly create a simple port.
I'll just call it as nginx port with the image of nginx.
I wanted to show you a few things.
When you do kubectl get pods over here.
You see, at this stage the status is container creating and if we run once again the status has changed
to running.
So do not consider this status to the port lifecycle phases.
They can be different here.
Now generally when you do kubectl get pods nginx pod with the output of YAML.
Now within here you will see a dedicated option that shows you the actual phase.
So within the status the phase will be available.
So let's go a bit down.
So in here you see, the face at this stage is running.
So this is the actual life cycle phase that we were discussing.
Now the phase of running is pretty straightforward and easy to understand.
We are going to focus more on other phases like pending to have a better clarity.
Now for today's practical, what we are going to do in order to test the pending phase, we are going
to create a simple pod.
However, for this pod, we are explicitly stating to Kubernetes that this pod requires 100 GB of memory
and 100 CPU.
Now, in most of the environments, this large amount of memory and CPU will not be available.
So when Kubernetes sees that this pod requires a worker node that should have this amount of memory
and CPU available, it will schedule the pod to that node accordingly.
But what happens if that worker node is not available?
In such case, the pod cannot be scheduled and it will remain in the pending status.
So let's quickly try it out.
So within our CPU labs folder I'll open this with VS code.
I'll quickly create a file called as pending pod dot YAML and within here I'll copy the manifest file
and I'll add over here.
Let's save this now from the terminal.
When I quickly create a pod from the manifest file, and when we run the kubectl get pods command,
you see, this pod is in the pending status and it will continue to remain in pending.
Why?
Because there is no worker node with such high amount of memory and CPU that is available as part of
the Kubernetes cluster.
If tomorrow a worker node with such high specifications is available, Kubernetes will schedule this
spot in that worker node, otherwise it will be in pending state.
The next phase that I wanted to emphasize upon is the succeeded phase.
So in such case, let's go a bit down.
We have one more manifest file that is available.
We'll be discussing what this is in just a moment.
First let's quickly create this file.
Let's create this file first.
Then I'll copy the manifest and I'll add over here.
Now within here the most important part is the command.
So this part is based on the BusyBox image.
And what is the command that we have asked it to run.
The command is hello Kubernetes.
Now from terminal when we run the echo command with say hello, what is the output that we will get?
The output that will get is hello.
But the important part to note is that this is a very short command.
So after the echo hello has run and you have seen hello as the output.
Now there is nothing else to do and same over here as well.
So once the BusyBox pod is created and BusyBox pod has run hello Kubernetes, what is left to do?
There is nothing left to do so in such cases the pod can be marked as succeeded over here.
So it can go into the phase of succeeded.
Now within here we have also added a restart policy of never.
We'll be discussing about the restart policy in the upcoming set of videos.
However, just keep a note on what exactly we are trying to do over here.
Let's save this.
Let's go ahead and quickly create a pod from the manifest file once.
Then when you run kubectl get pods, you see our test pod.
This time the status is completed.
Now when you say kubectl logs test pod in the output, you see we get.
Hello Kubernetes.
So this has successfully ran the command.
And then now it is completed because there is nothing else to do.
Now if you launch a pod from say image of nginx, then in such cases nginx will run in background continuously.
So this is the reason why nginx pod will have the status of running for a long time, because there
is a process that is running in the background.
Now, one more thing that I wanted to show you is that the phase and the status, as we were discussing,
that the phase and the status does not have 1 to 1 mapping so a specific face can have different status
as well.
So to better understand it, let's do one thing.
I'll say kubectl get pods test pod with the output of YAML.
Now within here in the pod status.
In the pod status we are interested in face.
And if you see the face is showing as succeeded.
However, when you do kubectl get pods here, the status is showing as completed.
So I hope you understand the difference.
The next phase that I wanted to emphasize upon is the field phase.
So let's copy this command.
And before we go ahead and test it out first, let's go ahead and delete all the pods so that we have
a clean slate over here.
Once this is done let's go ahead and run this.
So let's quickly look into what exactly it is doing.
We are creating a pod called as field pod from the image of BusyBox.
We also have a restart of never.
So this is the restart policy if not discussed.
We'll be discussing this in upcoming set of videos and we are running some command.
But the most important part is the exit status.
And the exit status is one.
So generally when the command fails with an error, it will give an exit status of one in Linux.
And once Kubernetes detects that application has failed with an exit status of one, then it can take
the next steps accordingly.
Now, instead of starting the application and making it fail with the exit status of one directly,
we are failing with the exit of one.
Now, if I go ahead and if I press enter, let's clear the screen.
Let's do a kubectl get pods over here.
So for this pod you see the status here is error.
Now when you do kubectl get pod fail pod with the output of YAML within the phase here you see the phase
that it comes under is failed.
All right.
So I hope with this you understood at a high level overview about various phases that are available
for pod lifecycle.
Now before we conclude this video there are some additional testing that I wanted to show you.
This will give us better clarity on many of the things.
So let's copy the first command here.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's run it.
So here what we are doing is we are creating a nginx pod from an image of nginx with a tag of not existent.
So basically in Docker Hub there is no such image with this name.
So generally in such cases when you run this it says the pod has been created.
But when you do kubectl get pods here, it clearly states that you have the error in image pool.
Why there is an error in image pool?
Because we know that this image with this tag does not really exist.
In fact, when you do kubectl describe pod nginx hyphen pod, you will clearly see here which states
that it is not able to find any Docker website.
It is not able to find an image with this name and this tag.
It says not found.
Now this is fine, but the main learning here is that although it shows the status of error image pull.
But when you do kubectl get pods nginx pod with the output of YAML, you see the phase is pending.
So since the container by itself cannot start, it is stuck at the first phase by itself, which is
the pending phase.
The second command is also interesting.
Let's copy this.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and run it.
So here we are creating a simple pod called as curl pod from the image of alpine hyphen curl.
So when I press enter and when you do kubectl get pods for the curl pod, also you see the status that
it is showing is error.
However, at this stage when you do kubectl get pods curl pod with the output of YAML.
Now remember that when we had created this failed pod that also had the status of error, it was under
the phase of failed.
However, at this stage, when you look into the pod, the phase you see it is running.
This is not field.
So basically when you do kubectl get pods again, you see the status has changed.
And the most important part here is the restart.
So generally Kubernetes is restarting this specific pod since it is restarting the specific pod.
The phase in which the pod is currently in is running.
Now if you notice in this specific slide, we had clearly stated that this phase can come if at least
one container is still running or is in the process of starting or restarting.
So in such case, since Kubernetes is restarting this specific pod, the fees associated with this pod
is running here.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the pod lifecycle phases.
Again, as we progress further in the course, we'll get more detailed clarity about various phases.
However, at this stage we had to keep it at a high level.
Overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Container Restart Policy ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the container restart policy.
Again, this is an important topic.
And generally in production environments, the knowledge that you will gain as part of today's video
will prove to be useful.
So let's go ahead and discuss this in detail.
Now at a high level overview, you can consider that restart policies can provide self-healing feature
for containers.
Now if you look into the screenshot you have an app that is running.
The status is in error and there is a restart that is happening.
That is true.
So Kubernetes has the ability to restart the containers whenever specific issue occurs like an error.
So restart policies helps here.
And at an overview they specify the condition in which the container that is running inside a pod can
automatically be restarted.
So you don't really have to manually restart it.
Kubernetes based on the condition it will automatically restart the container as part of the pod.
Now, one very important point to note is that there are multiple set of restart policies that are available
in Kubernetes.
Based on the requirement, you can set each one of them accordingly.
One of the common one is always so.
When this restart policy is applied, it instructs Kubernetes to restart a container whenever it terminates,
regardless of whether the exit was due to success, which is exit code zero or failure.
And this is the default restart policy.
So even if you create a pod without any restart policy, always is the restart policy that will be used.
We'll be discussing about all of this practically in just a moment, but just let's quickly discuss
theoretically first.
The second restart policy is on failure.
In such cases, Kubernetes will only restart container if it terminates with non-zero exit code indicating
a failure.
This is slightly different from always in always, even if the container exit due to success with the
exit code of zero, it will still restart, and the third restart policy is never.
The name itself clearly states that Kubernetes should not restart the container, even if it exists
both at a success or a failure level.
Let's discuss about all of these restart policies.
From a practical point of view, this will give us better understanding.
Now, as part of today's practical, we are going to explore each restart policy in detail.
The first one that we are going to explore is the always restart policy.
As we were discussing, this is the default restart policy.
So whenever you create a pod for example through this command the always restart policy will apply over
here.
Now before we run this command I wanted to show you one thing.
So let's quickly create a pod.
Let's just call it as nginx pod from the image of nginx.
Now this is a simple command every one of us understands.
So now when you do kubectl get pods, you see at this stage we have nginx pod that is running.
The status is running.
And the restart at this stage is zero because nginx process is working perfectly well.
Now after clearing the screen, let's run the simple command of kubectl get pod nginx pod with the output
of YAML.
So basically we want to see what is the restart policy that got applied to this specific pod.
So let's go a bit up.
We are more interested in the spec section.
This is status section.
We are more interested in spec.
So in the spec just search for restart policy.
This is what we are interested in.
You see restart policy by default.
Even if we have not explicitly specified it is always so.
This is one important learning.
Now let's go ahead and understand the importance of the always restart policy.
So let's just copy this and we'll add it over here.
Now before we run it let's quickly explore what exactly this command does.
So it creates a new pod called as test pod from the image of BusyBox.
And here we are running a command called as non-existent command.
So this command as we know does not really exist.
For example, if you just run something like this, because this command does not really exist, you
will get an error.
And when error comes, we will look into how Kubernetes deals with such cases.
So I'll press enter.
And now when I do kubectl get pods will watch it.
So at this stage as expected we have run container error because this command does not really exist
and the pod has errored out.
Now when there is an error that occurs you see Kubernetes automatically restarts the pod.
So when restarts happen the restart counts gets incremented.
So first there was restart count of zero.
There was an error on the pod.
Kubernetes restarted it one time.
Again there was an error on the pod.
Then Kubernetes restarted it the second time.
And this will continue to happen.
So this again as you are discussing it can be the self-healing feature where in case if you have a genuine
application it is working correctly.
Suddenly the application stopped and there is an error.
So in such cases, Kubernetes will automatically restart the container and that can help in wide variety
of scenarios.
All right so this is the benefit of the always restart policy here.
The second restart policy is never now from the name itself we can identify what this does.
This states that even if there is an error in the container never restart it.
All right.
So let's copy this.
Let's clear the screen and we'll run it.
Now when I do kubectl get pods you see the test pod two.
The status is start error.
Now since this has restart policy of Kubernetes will never restart it.
So even if I do kubectl get pods you see the restart will continue to be zero.
The third restart policy is on failure.
Now in such cases, what happens is that only if Pod fails.
In such case, Kubernetes will restart it.
If Pod does not fail with the exit status of one, the restart will not really happen.
Let's look into it.
So before we do that let's do kubectl get pods.
So at this stage our test pod has been restarted multiple times.
The test pod number two with a restart policy of never has not been restarted even once.
So let's copy this.
Let's add it over here.
So in restart policy we have onfailure.
The command is very similar to the previous command that we ran.
In such case we are trying to run non-existent command in the container which has the image of BusyBox.
So in such case also since the failure is happening, Kubernetes will go ahead and restart it.
So when I do kubectl get pods our test pod three.
You see as we expected that error is occurring.
So the restart here is happening by Kubernetes.
One restart has already happened.
Now, one very important point here that we have to keep a note.
In fact, we had also discussed that in on failure.
Kubernetes will only restart a container if it terminates with non-zero exit code indicating a failure.
Now in such case let's say instead of non-existent command, this time we run a genuine command that
we know it will run successfully in the BusyBox container.
So this command echo hello, Kubernetes will run.
In fact, if I just run it, you see it is working perfectly.
So the exit status is not related to an error.
So in such case when you copy this and when you run it, let's clear the screen.
When you run this what will happen.
The container will run the command successfully.
And when you do kubectl get pods over here the test port number four.
You see the status is completed this time.
So if you do kubectl logs test pod Part four.
In the output you see, we got.
Hello, Kubernetes.
Now, since this command ran successfully and when you had a restart policy of onfailure, Kubernetes
determined that failure did not happen.
The command ran successfully.
And this is the reason why the restart never happened in such case.
Now, one very important point that you have to keep a note of is that if you run this specific command,
let's run.
This will not define the restart policy of Onfailure.
And I'll just call it as test port five.
Now in such case, what will happen?
As we know, test port five will be created.
The BusyBox will run the Hello Kubernetes command and we know it will be successful.
However, in such case when you do kubectl get pods this time you see the restarts are happening.
Now when you do kubectl logs test pod five, we are getting the hello Kubernetes.
But still Kubernetes is restarting the test pod five.
So if I run kubectl get pods again, you see it is restarting here.
Why is it restarting?
Let's read over here.
So what it says is that when you have a always restart policy and whenever a container terminates,
regardless of the exit was due to success or failure, in our case, the container was terminated because
it successfully ran the Kubernetes.
Now it did not really have a use.
So the container was terminated and the phase was completed.
So since you're using a restart policy of always, whenever it finds that the container has terminated,
it will restart that container.
It will not really look whether the container has successfully ran the command or not.
It will just restart.
And this is the reason why generally in production environments it is very important that based on the
requirement, you have to choose the appropriate restart policy.
Now at an overview you should also be aware about the manifest file.
So let's say that you have a manifest file.
Where do you define the restart policy.
You define it under the spec.
Let's also quickly look into it.
So if I quickly run this command let's clear the screen.
I'll just run this command with the restart policy of on failure.
We are just using dry run of client and the output of YAML.
So if you see under the pod spec over here, you can define the restart policy.
And whatever restart policy you would like you can define it.
Now again you do not really have to define the always restart policy because it is the default.
Any other restart policy like on failure or never.
If you would like to have, you can explicitly define it within the manifest file, or you can directly
add it within the command itself.
Once you have completed the practical, you can just go ahead and delete all of the pods that are running
in the namespace.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics of the container restart policy.
And with this we will conclude today's video.

--- Troubleshooting Application Failure ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
Now in today's video, we'll be discussing about troubleshooting the application failure.
Now, a typical application can make use of various kind of Kubernetes objects, like it can make use
of pods, it can make use of services, secrets, configmaps, it can even make use of roles, role
bindings, etcetera.
Now, if one of the intermediary things stops working, then your application can behave unexpectedly
or application can stop working at all.
So whenever you see that application is not working, then you have to look into all the dependencies
that the application needs in order to work perfectly.
And then you have to check each and every dependency to see if everything is working there.
All right.
So this is more of a theoretical perspective.
So unless and until you don't start to troubleshoot in a practical way, it becomes difficult to truly
understand the troubleshooting aspect.
So what we'll do is we'll take up one scenario and we'll look into how we can go ahead and troubleshoot
it.
So the scenario is very simple here, where you have two pods which are currently running and there
is a node port service.
So what you want is you want to make use of the port, which is been exposed by the Node port service
to see the applications which are running in the pods within the browser.
All right.
This is a very simple architecture and we look into how we can troubleshoot it.
So what I have done is that I have created a file called as application hyphen failure dot Yaml, and
this basically contains the template related to the architecture that we were discussing.
So now what we will do, let's go ahead and run this up.
So let's say kubectl apply on the application hyphen failure dot Yaml.
All right, so there are four objects which have been created and if you quickly do a kubectl get service
you will see that you have a service which is listening on a node port of 312, one zero.
And let's also quickly do a cube Ctl describe Node or let's first do a cube Ctl get nodes.
So this is one node.
Let's quickly find the IP address associated with this node.
Let's go a bit up.
So this is the external IP, let's copy this up and within the browser I'll paste the IP address followed
by the node port, which is 31210.
So currently you see nothing is loading.
However, if you go a bit down, the ports are basically based on the nginx image.
So if things are working then you should see the nginx default page over here.
But somehow due to some issue, this is not really loading.
So basically this I have deployed within the Kubernetes managed environment.
All right.
So what we'll do is we'll conclude this video for now.
The task for you is to find out why this is not working.
All right.
So you can look into this Yaml file, figure out what exactly this does and then try to fix that yaml
file so that you can have the default nginx page available within the browser.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
Now in the next video we'll dedicate it to the solution based on this specific problem that we were
discussing in today's video.
So again, I really encourage you to troubleshoot it.
This is extremely important not only for the exams but also when you are working in a live production
environment, which is based on Kubernetes.

--- Solution - Troubleshooting Application Failure ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So in the earlier video of troubleshooting the application failure, we had basically designed an architecture,
and this architecture was somehow not working.
So you see, it was basically giving us an error.
So our task was to figure out the whys.
So let's look into it step by step.
Now, the first thing over here is the Node port service.
And this node port service is connecting to the two ports.
So now we have to verify whether the service is created and whether the ports are created.
So the first thing, let's quickly verify whether the service is created.
And yes, the service is created.
The name of the service is CP Labs Hyphen Service, and the type here is Node Port, and you also have
the port which can be accessible from the external environment.
So at this stage things seems to be fine as far as the service is concerned.
Now the next part is let's quickly do a kubectl describe service on CP Labs hyphen service here.
Now within here, somehow the endpoints it is showing as none.
However, as far as the architectural diagram is concerned, there should be two endpoints over here.
So there should be two pods which should be connected to the service.
However, somehow the pods are not registered with this specific service.
So now the question is why.
So let's go ahead and do a kubectl get pods and currently you will see that there are no pods which
are created.
Now if you look into the Yaml file of the pod definition, you see that there is a namespace over here.
So that basically means that the pods are created but they are in the namespace called as team A.
All right, so now let's say namespace of team A and currently you see that both the pods are created
and the status of the pods are running.
All right?
So you have to make sure they're ready and the status fields are perfectly working.
Otherwise, if the status is not running, then again you will have an issue.
However, this is not the case in our demo.
All right.
So you have the pods running perfectly.
Now the question is why they are not registered at the endpoint level.
So now within the service you will see that the use of selector is being used.
So we already know that you can either manually add a pod to the service or you can make use of a selector.
Now within here there is a selector which states that the key should be run and the value should be
ingenix.
So this service will select all the pods which has a label of run is equal to Nginx over here.
However, this might not be the case.
So let's quickly verify if this is the case or not.
So you can do a kubectl describe pods.
Let's copy the pod name and we'll specify the namespace of team and let's go a bit.
And within the label you will see that the pod does not have a label of run is equal to Nginx.
So if it does not have a label of run is equal to nginx, then you can either change the label or you
can manually add them to a service.
So let's go ahead and add an additional label to this specific pod.
So again, a few important things here.
So here you have a selector and the selector says as run as nginx.
So if your two pods.
So there are two definitions for pods.
So this is the first one and this is the second one.
So if both of them has the same environment label, let's say here the label is env is equal to prod
and the second pod also has that same label.
Then in such cases you can go ahead and you can decide to change the selector to match the label of
the pods which are currently running.
However, in our case that is not the case because the first pod, so the pod with the name of Nginx
pod first has a label of env as prod and the second pod has a label of env is equal to pod, which is
p o r d, so in such cases, since both the pods have a different label altogether, changing the selector
at the service level will not make sense.
So in such cases you can copy the specific selector and you can add it within the labels here.
So we can we'll add one more label to both of our pods.
All right, let's add these labels.
So now let's go ahead and clear the screen.
So once we have made the change, we will again do a cube.
Ctl apply, and there should be two things configured.
So you have the pod one configured pod two configured based on the labels.
So now if you do a cube Ctl describe Pod, you will see that it automatically has one more label of
run is equal to Nginx.
So now we are one more step closer.
So when you do a cube, Ctl get service and let's do a cube.
Ctl describe service yet again to verify whether it has the right endpoints or not.
So let's do a describe on it.
And again you will see that the endpoints is still empty.
So that means that the service will not direct the traffic downwards.
Now the question is why.
So the answer here is if you look into the namespace field here, this service is basically created
in a namespace called as default.
However, if you look into the pods, the pods are created in a different namespace, so the pods are
created in a namespace called as Team A and the service is created in a namespace of default.
So since there is no namespace which is explicitly defined, it is created under the default namespace.
So in order to solve this, what you can do is as a quick solution, you can either move both of these
pods to a default namespace so you can change the namespace as default.
So then the pods will be created in a default namespace.
So that is one option.
The second quick option here is you can create this service in a same namespace where the pods are running,
so that is much more better.
So let's do that.
So I'll say namespace as team A.
All right, let's go ahead and do a save once, then let's quickly do a apply.
So it says that a service is created.
Now if you do a kubectl get service, you will see that this is a Cape Labs service.
However, this was the older service which was running in the default namespace.
Now you can also do a namespace of Team A and you will see that there is one more service with the same
name and the type here is Nodeport.
And if you see this service which was created in Team A is now listening on a different port which is
32170 as opposed to 31210.
All right.
So now let's quickly do a describe on the service of Cape Labs service for the namespace of Team A,
And now you will see that this service has two endpoints which are created associated with both the
pods.
So now we have this service and now this service has both the endpoints which are registered.
So the next thing is to copy this Nodeport and let's replace this within the browser.
And as soon as I press enter you will see the default nginx page.
All right, so I hope you understood the solution associated with this specific architecture.
Now, again, the architecture was quite simple.
However, we learned a lot of things as far as the troubleshooting is concerned.
Now, in production environment, there can be a lot of things which would be involved.
So it can be secrets, it can be config map, it can be issues related to the permissions, it can be
issue related to the worker node by itself, or it can be issue related to the networking aspect and
so on.
So there can be multiple issues.
But since we were discussing about troubleshooting the application failure, we did not really discuss
about the things like the components going down.
So it can happen that the controller manager is not working or the scheduler is not working.
However, that was not the purpose.
Our purpose was that all the components are working, the master is working, the worker node is working,
but there is some issue related to the application by itself.
So that was the purpose.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Troubleshooting Control Plane Failure ---

Here you are.
And welcome back.
So in today's video, we'll be discussing about the overview steps required during the troubleshooting
of the control plane failure.
Now, at this step of cluster level troubleshooting here, we assume that you have already ruled out
your application as the root cause of your problem that you are experiencing now.
Many times what happens is that the things are not working as expected and similar to what we were discussing
in the earlier video, the first thing that we look is the application level troubleshooting to see
if there are any misconfigurations or not.
So once that part you have verified that there are no misconfigurations and things used to work perfectly
earlier, but it is not really working now, then the next step would be to look into the cluster components
because it can happen that some cluster components might misbehave like controller manager due to which
certain functionality of your application might not work.
So that is the second step.
Now the step one of the troubleshooting is to verify the cluster components.
So when you run a command called as Kubectl get component status, then you will be able to see the
status of various components like scheduler controller, manager, Etcd and so on.
Now during the video where we were creating a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, we have already seen
this and we also saw that once when we have misconfigured a controller manager, the health status of
that controller manager was not okay so quickly verifying with the help of kubectl get component status
can give you an overview whether the things are working properly or not.
Now, the second thing that you can do is that you can verify the cluster info and you can also dump
that information for further analysis.
Now you can verify if the master and DNS servers are running and also on the IP addresses on which they
are running.
So with the help of the kubectl cluster hyphen info, you can quickly see whether the Kubernetes master
is running and it is running at which port and which IP address and also whether your DNS is running
or not.
Now that is one aspect.
Along with that, you can also do a cluster info dump which basically dumps a lot of relevant logs for
the debugging and diagnosis purposes.
Now from the CLI, when you do a cube Ctl cluster info, as expected, our master is running and our
DNS server is also running.
Now if you want to further it already says that to further debug and diagnose the cluster problem you
can make use of the cube Ctl cluster info dump.
So let's run this out.
And what it basically does is it gives huge amount of information.
Now one of the information that it gives is the logs associated with all the pods which are currently
running.
It also gives you information related to the pods which are running the Daemonsets, which are running
the metadata associated with it and so on.
So you see huge amount of information is being outputted by this specific command.
And through this information you can diagnose things in a much more greater detail.
Now the third very important aspect as far as the troubleshooting of components is concerned is to check
the logs of individual components.
And we have extensively used it while we were designing our cluster from scratch.
Now for the system based components, you can make use of Journalctl to look into the logs of various
components.
So we have already discussed about what Journalctl is.
So you can use Journalctl for Kube API server, for a scheduler, for a controller manager for the Kubelet
and so on.
So Journalctl basically or the logs if you directly open the logs are one of the great source of information
which will give you a great deal of information if things are not working perfectly or not.
Now do remember that although the status is healthy sometimes due to some reason, it can happen that
even though the status is healthy, there will be certain errors that you will see within the cluster
components.
So for such cases it is always recommended to also make use of a journalctl to verify whether the things
within the components are working or not.
So that's the overview about the troubleshooting of the control plane components.
Now, again, we did not really go in much detail because we have already done a lot of troubleshooting,
a lot of debugging while we were creating our Kubernetes cluster from scratch.
So this video was more of a revision about some of the important steps while troubleshooting the components.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Version Skew Policy ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the version skew policy in Kubernetes.
Now, one point that we already know is that Kubernetes consists of multiple set of components behind
the scenes.
So when we discuss about control plane node there are multiple components like API server, controller,
manager, scheduler.
Then in worker node you have two important components like Kubelet kube proxy.
Now one point to note is that in Kubernetes it can happen that different components like API server
controller manager are interacting with each other across various versions.
So it can happen that kube API server for example is on version one.
Controller manager is in version 1.1.
Scheduler is in the version of 1.2.
Now, when you have different components with different version, the question is will your cluster
work perfectly well?
And the answer to that is it depends.
And primarily to deal with this issue where there can be multiple versions of components, you have
the version skew New policy that is made available to us.
Now, the main aim of this specific policy is to ensure that whatever component versions that are running
these versions should be compatible with each other and it should be stable.
So the version skew policy defines how versions of these components can differ while still maintaining
a functional cluster.
So you do not really want the controller manager to be version 1.1 and Apiserver to be 1.0, only to
realize that after a few months you are facing a lot of issues.
So to avoid all of these issues at a later stage, it is important for us to understand the version
skew policy.
Now, at a very high level overview version skew happens when two components that are interacting with
each other are not running at the exact same version.
For example, you have a kubectl on version 1.26 API server on version 1.33.
So this is a big difference in terms of version.
Now in Kubernetes it is not compulsory that all of the components needs to be on the exact same version.
Certain level of version skew is allowed.
However, whenever you have excessive difference between version, it can lead to compatibility issues,
failures, or unexpected behaviors.
So, for example, version 1.26 of kubectl might work with the API server, but it is not 100% guaranteed
that everything will work.
It can lead to compatibility issues that you will realize maybe after six months in production environments,
it can lead to certain failures or unexpected behaviors.
So this is the reason why understanding the version skew policy is important over here.
Now, before we explore the version skew policy, it is important for us to note on how the Kubernetes
versions are released.
So at a high level overview, Kubernetes versions are expressed as x dot y dot z where x is the major
version, y is the minor version, and z is the patch version.
So the format is major dot or minor dot patch.
Like 1.32.2.
Now that we understand the basics, let's look into the version skew policy for various components.
First important component is the cube API server.
And when we discuss about cube API server, you can have a single node running cube API server in production
environment.
Generally you can also have cube API server running in a highly available cluster based environment.
Now if you look into this specific architecture diagram, you have a load balancer and there are multiple
servers or multiple virtual machines where components of the control plane nodes are configured.
You have API server configured on multiple virtual machines, controller manager configured, scheduler
configured, etcd configured, and near the load balancing happens.
So in case even if one server goes down, you don't really need to worry, the load balancer can send
the request to the other working nodes.
Now that we understand it at a high level overview, the first pointer will make better sense, which
states that in a highly available based clusters, the newest and the oldest kube API server instance
must be within one minor version.
For example, if the newest cube API server is 1.32, then the other cube API servers that are supported
is either 1.32, which is the same version, or 1.31.
So this is one minor version difference.
Specifically, when we discuss about Ha based clusters.
Now the next important component is the Kubelet.
This is very important.
Kubelet must not be newer than the cube API server, and the second point states Kubelet may be up to
three minor version older than the cube API server.
So if the cube API server is 1.32, then 1.32 of Kubelet is supported, and then the three minor version
1.31, 1.30, and 1.29.
The next important component is the cube proxy.
Similar to Kubelet, you have to ensure that cube proxy must not be newer than the cube API server,
and it can be up to three minor version older than the API server, so 1.32 of API server.
If it is running, then the cube proxy can be 1.32, which is the same 1.3, one, 30 and 29, which
are the three older versions, then the cube API server.
The next important part is related to the controller manager scheduler and the Cloud controller manager.
So one important point here is that these components must not be newer than the cube API server instances
that they communicate with.
In an ideal scenario, they are expected to match the cube API server minor version, but may be up
to one minor version older to allow live upgrades.
For example, if API service 1.32, then the scheduler controller manager and the Cloud Controller Manager
that are supported is either 1.32 and 1.31.
Now here it is important to note that one minor version older is supported to allow live upgrades.
Why?
Let's say that your API server is 1.32 and all other components are also 1.32.
Now tomorrow you want to upgrade your Kubernetes cluster and you are upgrading the cube API server.
So what you will do, you will upgrade the cube API server from 1.32 to 1.33.
Now at this stage, kube API server is running at 1.33, while all other components are running at 1.32.
So you want to ensure that the live upgrades do not create issues.
And this is the reason why this part of compatibility is made available.
And the last part is related to kubectl.
Ideally, kubectl is supported within one minor version of the kube API server.
So if kube API server is 1.32, the kubectl supported is 1.33, 32, and 31.
Now note that one minor version it can be older or newer.
Over here.
Along with that, if you want to read about the version skew policy in detail, there is a specific
documentation related to it where they have explained all of this in more detail.
So when you are upgrading your Kubernetes cluster, it is very important that you are aware about the
latest version skew policy before you start with the upgrade process.
Great.
So that's a quick overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Draining Worker Nodes ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So in the earlier video of facilitating the OS upgrades, we were discussing about the upgrading of
the worker node and also the two scenarios.
Now, in the first scenario, we were discussing where there would be an immediate restart.
So you quickly restart a worker node and both the static pod and the pod, which was part of the deployment,
it comes up perfectly well.
Now in the second scenario of brief downtime, your controller manager will go ahead and terminate both
the pods if there is a default downtime of more than five minutes.
Now what you want is you want to have a better control over this because operating system upgrades is
something that you might typically do on a monthly basis.
So you do not really want to rely on this specific toss.
So sometimes it might be immediate restart, sometime it would be a brief downtime.
So you don't want to rely on this.
You want a much more better approach to work around these things.
So let me quickly show you.
So if you quickly do a cube Ctl get pods on the output of Y, you will see that both the replicas associated
with the Nginx deployment, they are running in the cube.
ADM Worker zero two over here.
So let's say today is the patching time for the worker.
Zero two So if you go ahead and shut down this server, then both of these pods which are currently
running in this worker zero two would not be available and your application will go down.
So what you would want is that if you want to go ahead and shut down this server for maintenance or
for patching activity, you want to move both of these pods in a second worker node which is currently
ready.
So in this case, if you do a cube Ctl get nodes, you will see that there are two nodes which are ready.
One is worker zero one and second is worker zero two However, both the deployments are part of the
worker zero two and what you want is since you want to perform some maintenance task on Worker zero
two due to which Kubelet might not work for a brief amount of time, you want that both of these pods
should migrate to the worker zero one, which is already working perfectly well and is also patched.
So how you can do that is something that we'll be discussing in today's video.
Now to have more control over the upgrade process, as we were discussing, we can choose to drain a
node.
So in order to drain a node, the command is Cube Ctl Drain followed by the node name.
Now what will happen is that if you drain a node that will gracefully terminate all the pods on the
node while also making the node as unschedulable.
So that would basically means that once you have drained that specific node, no new pods will be assigned
to that node.
Even if the kubelet and if the server is working perfectly well.
So for the pods which are based on replica set, those pods will be replaced with a new pod and that
new pod will be scheduled in a different node.
However, the static pods will sooner be terminated.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
So I'm in my terminal and let's quickly do a cube Ctl get nodes over here.
So as expected, there are two nodes.
Now since the pods are within the worker zero two what you want is you want to drain this specific node
so that both the pods, which are part of the deployment, would be started in the worker zero one.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
So the command is Cube Ctl Drain, followed by the node name, which is Cube ADM Worker zero two.
All right.
Now, what happened here is that it basically went ahead and let me quickly show you, if you do a cube,
Ctl get nodes, you see it added one more thing within the status call as the scheduling disabled.
So the scheduling disabled means that no new pod will come to this specific node.
All right, so when you do a cube, Ctl run, let's call it as Nginx two, we'll make use of image of
Nginx and let's create a replica of five.
Now all of these replicas will be created within the cube ADM Worker zero one So if you want to quickly
find it out, let's do a O of Y and you will see that all the replicas associated with the Nginx two
deployment are within the worker.
Zero one All right.
The reason why they are in the worker zero one is because this worker zero two has the scheduling of
disabled, so no new pods will be assigned to it.
Now the reason why you also got an error over here is because this node had daemonset managed pods over
here.
So it clearly states that for the nodes which has the daemonset pods, you can make use of certain additional
arguments along with the cube Ctl drain.
Because now what is happening is that even after you have drained it, you will see that your pods are
still running in the worker.
Zero two over here.
So let's run the drain command with few options sets.
One is ignore daemon sets and second is delete local data in case if they're using things like empty
data.
So now as soon as you run it, you will see it is saying that it is evicting the pod.
So it is evicting the pod.
So these two are basically the pods associated with a daemon sets.
So first it was trying to evict it.
And second, it says that it has evicted both the pods.
Now when you do a cube, Ctl get pods on the output of Y yet again, you will see that all the pods
are within the worker.
Zero one Now none of the pods are within the worker.
Zero two So what you have done is you have told that the worker zero two where the pods were running
this specific node is going to the maintenance.
So you have manually drained the node so that whatever pods which were present typically of replica
sets, they would automatically be migrated to the next working node, which in our case was the worker
node zero one.
All right.
So this is very important because if you are planning to have some kind of a maintenance over a specific
node, it is important that you go ahead and drain the node so that whatever replicas are running in,
that would be shifted to some different nodes during that period of time.
All right, so let's do a cube, Ctl get nodes again, and the worker zero two is again has the status
of scheduling disabled.
So let's say that your work and your maintenance has been completed on this worker node.
You can go ahead and do a cube.
Ctl on Cordon Cube, ADM Worker zero two So it says that it has on cordon and if you do a cube Ctl get
nodes again the scheduling disabled status went away and this specific node is currently ready.
So tomorrow if you would have to do some maintenance work on the worker zero one then you can go ahead
and run the same command.
Let's go ahead and drain the worker zero one And you see it is evicting all the pods which are running
in this specific worker node.
So everything is evicted.
And if you again do a cube, Ctl get pods on the output of Y, you will see that all of the pods are
now running in the worker.
Zero two So this works perfectly because this is of the type daemon set.
However, if you have a static pod, you will have to be careful because those will be terminated.
So I hope you understood about facilitating the OS upgrade video and what exactly that meant.
So that's about it for today's video.
I hope you understood on how you can go ahead and deal with the maintenance specific activity.
And we also covered the two scenario where after patching the system would immediately come up or after
patching, there can be a brief downtime.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Drain and Uncordon Node ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Taint Based Evictions ---

Hey, everyone.
And welcome back.
So in today's video, we'll be discussing about the taint based evictions.
Now, before we go ahead and discuss about this, there are two prerequisites.
First one is you need to watch the video associated with the taint and toleration.
Second is to watch the video associated with the components of taint and toleration.
So only once you understand both of these, then we can go ahead and discuss about the taint based evictions.
Now, during the video of facilitating the OS upgrades, we were discussing about the two scenarios
where in the scenario one, your server restarts or your kubelet restarts, and if it restarts immediately,
then both of your static pods, as well as the replica set specific pods will come up.
Now in this scenario, two of brief downtime.
Now if your reboot takes longer, now the default time here is the five minutes, then your node controller
will go ahead and terminate the pods, which are bound to the unavailable node.
Now, one of the question that comes is what exactly is this default time and how can we configure this?
So this is important for us to understand and this is what we will be doing in today's video.
Now, before we go ahead and jump to practical, few important parts to remember is that the worker
nodes are automatically created in Kubernetes based on a specific node condition.
Now, there can be various node condition, like Node can be out of disk.
There would be a memory pressure disk pressure, there would be a network related issue, or the node
itself would not be ready.
So in these cases, you will have this specific taint which would be associated with that node.
So let's say that node is out of disk.
So what Kubernetes will do, Kubernetes will basically add this specific taint to the node, which is
having issue related with the disk storage and so on.
All right.
So that's the high level overview.
Let's jump into the practical to understand it in a better way.
Now I'm in my master node here and let's quickly do a cube.
Ctl get nodes.
All right.
So there are two worker nodes which are currently available.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and run a simple deployment of Type Nginx.
Let's do a cube.
Ctl get pods on o of white and you will see that this specific nginx pod is running on the node calls.
Cube ADM Worker zero two.
So now let's do one thing from a new tab.
Let's go ahead and log in to the worker.
Zero two We'll be doing some interesting things which will help us gain more insights into how things
work now within this worker.
Zero two If you do a system Ctl status on Cubelet currently, you will see that the Cubelet is currently
running.
Now, the reason why the Cubelet is running is also the reason why we are in the status here.
It is showing things as ready.
All right, so now let's go ahead and stop the cubelet within the worker.
Zero two.
All right.
So now let's go ahead and verify with the status and the status of this Cubelet is dead.
All right.
Now, from the master node, if you run the kubectl get nodes again, you will see that it is still
showing the status as ready.
So there is something called as the grace period, which is of 40s post which this status would change.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here and let's try it again.
And as expected, it is showing that the status is not ready.
So do remember, it will not show you immediately by default.
So there is a grace period of 40s post which this status would be updated.
Now, if you do a kubectl get pods over here on the O of Y, you will see that the pod status is still
running and it is showing that it is running in the cube.
ADM Worker zero two Although the worker zero two status is currently not ready, the status associated
with the pod is not yet updated.
All right.
Now, there is a specific reason behind this and we need to understand that.
So let's go ahead and do a describe on the node associated with the ADM Worker zero two.
Let's go Beta.
Now, if you would look into the taints, you will see that Kubernetes automatically added two taints
to this specific node.
The first taint was related to Unreachable and it was of type no execute, and the second taint is also
of unreachable and the type of no scheduled.
So that basically means that no new pods will be scheduled in this given node and the pods which are
present within this node, they will be evicted.
Now if you would have seen our video associated with the taint and toleration components, you would
understand what no execute is and what no schedule is.
Now, the question that comes is even though there is a no execute effect over here, why did the pod,
which is running, has not been evicted yet?
So when you do a kubectl get pods, you will see that the pod is still running in Kube ADM.
Basically the Kubelet is not really working there.
In fact, if you just do a halt.
So that basically means we have shut down the entire server.
Now even after you do this halt.
And when you do a kubectl get pods within here, it will still show it as a running.
So basically this acts as an incorrect data and this can lead to downtime a lot of times.
All right.
So make sure that by default, this data that you will see might not always be accurate.
Now, the question is, why is it still showing it to be running?
So the answer is within the toleration associated with this pod.
So when you do a cube, Ctl, describe pod, let's specify the name and let's go bit up.
And if you look into the toleration over here, it says that there are two tolerations over here.
One is associated with not ready and second is associated with unreachable.
And for this toleration, there is a period of 300 seconds.
Now, what this means is that if there is a node which has this specific taint attached to it, then
wait for 300 seconds post which these pods will be evacuated.
So this is the reason why if you would have seen our PPT, where we had mentioned that if there is a
downtime of more than five minutes, then your deployment pods will be evicted to the next worker node,
which is currently running.
All right, So I hope you understood this.
So basically the pods will wait for 300 seconds post which they will be removed from this specific node
which has this specific taint and will be rescheduled to the different node.
And since there is a grace period here of 300 seconds when you do a cube, Ctl get pods on all of white,
you would now see that after 300 seconds the pod is in the terminating stage here and the new pod has
been scheduled within the cube worker zero one.
So only after 300 seconds is this specific aspect possible.
So going back to the Digitalocean console, our server is in stopped state.
Now, again, if you find the issue that even after the halt command the server is not in the stop state,
you can manually.
Stop it from here.
All right.
So now let's go ahead and turn it on yet again.
So coming back to the CLI, if you quickly do a cube, Ctl get nodes again, both of our nodes are in
the ready state.
Now, one of the things that we have learned now is that even though our kubelet might not be running
or even though the server is in the shutdown, state your pod for the 300 seconds, which is five minutes,
the status would not be updated and this can be a problem in many of the scenarios.
So what you want is you do not want to wait for five minutes.
You only might want to wait for five seconds or you might only want to wait for 10s depending upon what
you want to achieve.
So that is something that you can configure as part of the pod spec.
Now if you look into this specific Yaml file within the toleration we have specified two tolerations
over here.
Now one of the toleration is node kubernetes.io/unreachable.
So this is the key.
So by now I am sure that you already know what keys are.
Then the operator is exists and the effect is no execute and the toleration seconds is two seconds.
So that means that if the node is being assigned this specific taint, which has the effect of no execute,
then only tolerate it for two seconds instead of 300 seconds.
So as soon as a node has this specific taint added within two seconds, this pod will be evicted from
that specific node.
So this is much more better.
So let's try this out.
So I'll copy this up and let's call it as toleration pod dot Yaml and I'll paste the contents here.
All right, let's go ahead and apply this file.
And it has created a pod.
Now if you quickly do a cube, Ctl get pods on the O of Y.
Our pod is created in the cube.
ADM Worker zero two So if you quickly do a describe on the pod with the name of Nginx web server, you
will see that there are two tolerations which are specified.
One is for the not ready no execute and second is for the unreachable.
No execute and the toleration.
Second is just two seconds over here instead of the 300 seconds.
So from a different tab, let's quickly go ahead and connect to the node where our pod is running.
All right.
So if you quickly do a Docker PS on the grip of Nginx web server, you will see that there is one container
which is currently running as expected.
Now if you do a cube, Ctl get nodes, things seems to be perfectly well so similar to the earlier experiment.
Let's go ahead and stop the Kubernetes service.
Let's quickly verify if the Kubernetes service is stopped.
And as expected, currently it is in the inactive state.
Now, as we were discussing that, there is a grace period of 40s post which it will get updated.
So you see, even though the kubelet is stopped, the status is not yet in the not ready state.
So the grace period is still pending.
So let's try it again.
Let's do a kubectl get nodes and now it is in the not ready state.
So in this state, if you quickly do a kubectl describe node.
On the worker zero to what you have seen is that you have seen that there are two chains which are attached
to it of the key of unreachable.
One is for no schedule and second is for the no execute.
Now if you quickly do a cube Ctl get pods, you will see that our pod is in the terminating state.
So since we had the tolerance period of just two seconds, it is immediately terminated.
It will not wait for even five minutes over here.
So now I hope you better understood what this brief downtime is.
This brief downtime is nothing but the toleration seconds.
Now, here we had specified five minutes during the kubectl describe command.
It was in seconds, which was showing as 300 seconds.
However, it is recommended that you reduce it because otherwise many times you will see that even though
the node has been deleted.
But still, when you do a cube, Ctl get pods, it will still show you that the pod is running and that
will lead to certain confusion.
Now the second important part over here is that if you just have a pod and you have specified the toleration
seconds of two seconds like we were discussing, now that pod will be terminated, but it will not be
rescheduled to a different node.
All right.
However, if you have a deployment or a replica, set, that deployment pod within that node will be
terminated, but the new one will be created in a different node.
Great.
So in today's video, I hope you understood more in detail about what exactly was happening when we
were doing practical associated with the facilitating OS upgrade video and also understood the taint
based evictions.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Exercise - Nginx and ConfigMap ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
In today's exercise video, we are going to take a use case related to nginx and immutable config map.
Now for today's video, the architecture would look something similar to the diagram where you have
an nginx deployment and the main nginx related configuration is stored as part of the immutable config
map, which is mounted as part of the deployment.
Now, as part of the requirement, you need to change certain aspects of the configuration, which is
part of the config map, so that it can reflect as part of the nginx.
And since this is a immutable config map, the approach that needs to be used will be slightly different.
So this is what we are going to try it out in today's video.
Now as part of today's exercise, first we have to set up the environment.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So I already have a script.
We'll use this script to deploy the necessary deployment as well as the immutable config map.
So first we'll go ahead and download this script.
If I do a LZ this is the file.
We'll go ahead and make it executable.
And then we'll run this.
So this will go ahead and create the necessary deployment service, the immutable config map and other
resources.
So once this is done you can go ahead and do kubectl get pods.
You see we have a pod that is running.
Now let us go ahead and understand the requirement in more detail.
What it states your task is to modify the setup so that the NGINX server in the secure web deployment
only accepts TLS 1.3 connections.
And one of the task here is modify the config map associated with the deployment to only allow TLS version
1.3 using any way possible.
Now first we have to identify what is the config map that is associated with the deployment.
So first let's go ahead and verify the deployment.
So the deployment here is secure hyphen web.
Now when you do kubectl describe deployment secure hyphen web.
Let's see if we are able to see config map details.
We can see it.
So here you have a volume.
The type is Configmap and the name of the configmap is nginx hyphen config hyphen one.
So basically this is the volume and this volume is mounted inside the pod in this specific part of etc.
nginx nginx.conf.
So let's go ahead and explore this config map.
So when I do kubectl get config map we have one config map that is available.
Now let's go ahead and explore what exactly this config map contains.
So I'll say kubectl get config map nginx config version one with the output of YAML and within here
you have nginx specific configuration here.
So within the server you have less than 403.
You have the server name, you have some SSL certificate.
And then you have the SSL protocol.
You have TLS version 1.2, TLS version 1.3.
So this is what it is stating that modify the config map associated with the deployment to only allow
TLS version 1.3 using any way possible.
And then you can test the setup using the following command to verify if TLS version 1.2 and 1.3 are
accepted.
So here first let's go ahead and test it.
Whether both 1.2 and 1.3 are accepted then we'll do the modification.
So here in the terminal tab one let's copy this I'll clear the screen in the terminal tab one I'll copy
this.
And then in the terminal tab two let's go ahead and run this OpenSSL command.
And here we are using TLS 1.2 I'll copy this.
And from the tab number two I'll run this.
And at this stage you can see a lot of details over here.
So here you have connected.
Here you have the server certificate and all.
So this means things are working at this stage.
In a similar way if we run this command let's go ahead and paste it again.
We are getting similar details.
So this means that things are working at an overview.
So I'll do a control C.
So now let's go ahead and look into the solution.
First we have to modify the config map.
So I'll just do a Ctrl C over here.
Now if I do kubectl get config map again one thing that you will see is that in this config map the
immutable is set to true.
So you cannot really modify this config map directly.
So in such case what you can do is you can go ahead and run the same command.
You can output it to say config map dot YAML.
And since here it is stating any way possible, we are free to modify things as required.
So now let's do one thing.
This specific config map that we had will go ahead and will delete this.
And now the config map that we had available here what we are going to do.
We are going to remove this TLS 1.2.
And also let's go ahead and change the name of this config map to version two and I'll save this and
I'll go ahead and I'll create a newer config map here.
Now when I do kubectl get config map we have a newer config map that is available.
So we have to use this as part of the deployment.
So what we are going to do we are going to go ahead and edit this deployment.
And within here since we had the config map volume that was used let's find where exactly volumes are.
So this is where the volumes are specified.
We'll go ahead and we'll change this to version two.
And I'll save the change.
Once the deployment is edited and the config map has been changed, this would mean that pods will also
be recreated.
So if you see this specific pod has been recreated, the age is six seconds.
Now sometimes what happens is you might get a slightly different requirement as part of the exams.
In case if you would like, you can also do something like kubectl rollout restart deployment secure
web.
So in this case also the deployment will be restarted and all the pods will be recreated.
So you see this pod has been recreated.
Now that we have modified the Configmap to allow only TLS version 1.3, it is time to test again.
So in the terminal tab one we are going to copy this command.
And then in the terminal tab two first we are going to make a request using TLS 1.2.
So here let's look into 1.2.
So immediately here you see we are getting error related to the protocol version.
So this means things are not really working.
Let's go ahead and run the second command with TLS 1.3.
So here you see things are working.
We are getting the handshake and related details over here.
Great.
So I hope with this at a very high level overview, you have understood on what might be the workflow
when you have the immutable config map that is available, and also how you can edit the deployment
accordingly.
Now, once you have completed the practical, go ahead and delete all of the resources that have been
created as part of this lab.
So what we'll do, we'll go ahead and we'll delete everything so that we can have a fresh start here.
Now again, note that again, if your file names are different, you might get an error.
The nginx config version one is something that we have already removed.
Now at this stage, let's just go ahead and remove the files called as config map YAML.
We'll also remove the script and just verify if you have any config map available.
You have the version two of the config map.
So let's just go ahead and delete it and make sure that you have a clean slate to start the next exercise,
if any.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Exercise - PV and Deployments ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
So today's exercise video is going to be interesting.
And the primary topic for today's video is related to the persistent volume and the deployments.
Now for today's exercise the architecture is going to look something similar to this where you have
a MariaDB deployment.
Now this deployment is associated with a persistent volume claim.
And this claim in turn is bounded to a specific persistent volume.
Now what has happened is this MariaDB deployment and its associated persistent volume claim has accidentally
been deleted over here.
So the task is that you have to recreate the deployment and the persistent volume claim to use the existing
volume to restore the data.
Now this volume is still present, which contains the important database information.
So you have to recreate the appropriate deployment and the PVC so that it connects to the volume that
the MariaDB deployment previously had.
Now for today's exercise, we have one prerequisite.
The prerequisite states that the local path provisioner must be set up with the appropriate storage
class.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
So within here if I do cube CTL get storage class we have this local path available.
And the provisioner is rancher.
Now we have already discussed on how you can configure the local path provisioner in a storage section.
So in case if this is not configured go ahead and configure it because this is the prerequisite for
today's exercise.
Once you have this configured let's go ahead and look into the requirement.
The requirement is there is a deployment named MariaDB in the MariaDB namespace.
A intern has deleted this deployment by mistake, and this deployment used to use a PV named MariaDB,
retained PV, which still exists.
Now your task is to recreate a deployment with a new PVC that binds to the existing PV, which was not
really removed, and to verify the solution, confirm that the MariaDB deployment pod is running and
that var lib mysql initial dot.
TXT file exists inside the port.
Now let's go ahead and quickly set up the environment.
I'll copy this.
We'll run this command over here.
This is the script file.
So we'll go ahead and make it executable.
And we'll quickly go ahead and set up the resources.
Great.
So once this is done first let's go ahead and verify the deployment.
So I'll say kubectl get pods in the namespace of Maria db.
At this stage there are no pods that are available.
Now this is as expected because the deployment has been removed along with the PVC.
However, what exists is the PV.
So you can just run kubectl get PV.
You will see that there is one PV available called as MariaDB retained PV.
This PV has the necessary database related information which we want.
Now here it also states that the MariaDB deployment file Maria hyphen Deployment.yaml will be created
in the same folder where you will be running the script, and this can be used to recreate the deployment.
So we had run the script in the root and here you will see there is one more file called as MariaDB
hyphen Deployment.yaml.
And if we'll quickly look into this deployment file, it's a very simple deployment where you have a
volume mounts and you have volume configured in the volumes.
You have the persistent volume claim.
The claim name is MariaDB.
And where is it mounted.
It is mounted to var lib MySQL.
Now at this stage, one of the first things that we need to do since the persistent volume already exists,
we have to create a persistent volume claim before we create a PVC.
First, we have to ensure that our persistent volume is not associated with any claim, because currently
it is associated with one claim.
So you will not be able to associate your PVC with this PV.
So you have to make sure that this claim is removed from our persistent volume.
Now you can go ahead and do that.
You can say kubectl edit pv name of our PB.
Now within here if we go a bit down.
So within here you have this claim reference.
So we can go ahead and remove this specific claim reference.
I'll press DD to remove a line.
Once then I'll go ahead and I'll save this once we have saved it.
Now when you do cube CTL, get PB, make sure there is no claim associated with that PB.
So now when we create a PVC this PVC can be bounded to easily.
Now from the documentation you have to find the base manifest file associated with the PVC.
And then we can modify the manifest file based on the requirement.
So we'll go to the documentation of persistent volume.
And you'll have to scroll a bit down till you find a manifest file on PVC.
So this is one of the examples here the persistent volume claim.
Let's go ahead and use this again.
You don't really need selectors and all.
We'll keep it very simple.
We'll just copy it till here.
Let's copy this and I'll create PVC dot YAML.
And we'll go ahead and paste it here.
Now you have to modify this based on the requirements.
So from another tab I'll just do kubectl get PV so that we can get the right information.
So the capacity of our PV was 250 mi.
So let's just change it to 250 mi.
Now volume mode is not really required.
I'll just do Ctrl K to remove it.
Access mode you have to verify read write once here.
Also you have read write once.
Now the next important part is the storage class name.
Now when you do kubectl describe pv let's look into this specific PV.
So volume mode here is file system.
The storage class is local hyphen path.
So let's go ahead and change this.
Let's just change it to local hyphen path.
part.
And now what we are going to do, just for simplicity, there is one more, better way that you can
add here.
Let me in fact show you which is the volume name.
So volume name can be used.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Now in case if it is confusing like where you will add this you can run command like kubectl explain
PVC.
Let's see what we get here.
We get API version kind metadata spec and status.
So we are more interested on what goes inside the spec.
So what you can do kubectl explain PVC dot spec and let's just make it recursive.
So this way you will get better details.
So you will see that storage class name volume mode volume name.
So it is in the same alignment.
So here you can say volume name.
And then whatever name the volume had.
Let's copy the exact same name over here and I'll save this.
One more thing you'll have to verify is what exactly is the PVC name in the deployment?
So when you do a cat on MariaDB deployment, the PVC name here was just MariaDB.
So this is something that you will have to verify.
In this case the PVC name is just my claim.
Let's just change it to MariaDB.
And I'll save this.
Let's go ahead and create the PVC.
Now again note that since deployment is getting created in the namespace of MariaDB, the PVC, also
we have to create in the same namespace, because here we have the default namespace that is used.
So what you can do, you can just do a cat on MariaDB.
You have this namespace and the same namespace you can add as part of the PVC over here.
Once this is done, you can just quickly create the PVC.
Once PVC is created, the most important part is you have to make sure that it is bounded to the right.
PB.
As we can see in the claim, our PVC is successfully bounded.
Now you can also verify with cube CTL.
Get PVC in the namespace of MariaDB.
You have to verify that the status is bound.
Once this is done now we can go ahead and create our MariaDB deployment and just verify.
I'll say kubectl get pods in the namespace of MariaDB.
Just verify the pods are running.
Now in the requirement it clearly stated that to verify a successful solution, confirm that the MariaDB
deployment pods are running and that var lib MySQL initial dot.
TXT file exists inside the pod.
So now what we are going to do?
We are going to quickly connect inside our pod in the namespace of MariaDB.
And then you can do LZ hyphen L.
You can copy this specific path, just add it here and you should see that there is a file.
Or in fact you can manually also go to var lib MySQL.
If you do a LHS you should see you have a initial dot.
TXT file that is available.
So this means that we were able to successfully connect our deployment of MariaDB to the existing persistent
volume which had the data.
Once you have tested the entire setup, you can also go ahead and delete the setup.
First you will delete the namespace.
This will also delete the deployment.
Then you'll go ahead and delete the PV and maybe any other data that is created.
You can just copy this.
Let's just come out of it I'll just run this.
All right.
And in case if you have the files that are created as part of this root folder, you can go ahead and
remove it so that you have a clean slate.
Great.
So I hope with this you understood the requirement and the appropriate solution to deal with such use
cases.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Our Community ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Part 1 ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the part one of the important pointers for the CPA exam.
So let's get started.
Now the first important pointer is related to the priority class.
As we have already discussed, that priority indicates the importance of parts relative to the other
parts.
So depending upon the priority class it can happen that if a higher priority pod is trying to get scheduled
in the worker node, if there are any pods with a lower priority, those pods can be evicted or terminated
for the higher priority pods to be scheduled.
Now you should know on how to create the priority class.
Specifically, the commands will be much more simpler.
So cube CTL create priority class, and for each priority class you can assign a value higher the value,
higher the priority, lower the value, lower the priority.
And you should also know on how you can add the appropriate priority class name to a pod or a deployment.
It can be a new pod, or there can be an existing deployment to which you will have to add a priority
class.
So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of.
Again, when we discuss about the manifest file, you don't really have to remember this.
There is a documentation on the priority.
So if you go a little bit down you have a priority class basic manifest file that is available.
And also if you want to assign a priority to an appropriate pod, this is the syntax priority class
name followed by the name of the priority class.
And same goes for deployment.
If you want to add a priority class to an existing deployment, you can just copy this from here and
add it to the existing deployment using the appropriate methods.
The second important topic is related to the Horizontal Pod autoscaler.
You should be familiar on how to create the HPA manifest file, along with a very specific configuration
related to the stabilization window.
Now to configure an HPA, the command is simple.
You have a cube CTL Autoscale you have the deployment, the name of the deployment, you can define
the CPU percentage, the minimum, as well as maximum.
Now for the horizontal pod autoscaler.
One thing that I wanted to show you as we're discussing, you can use the kubectl autoscale set of commands
to go ahead and create the basic configuration.
Again, the help page is very helpful.
You have kubectl autoscale deployment name of deployment.
And then maybe based on CPU utilization minimum and maximum.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share specifically related to this is from the perspective of the
stabilization window.
So in the horizontal pod autoscaler, if you go to the stabilization window this is the basic approach
of behavior scale down stabilization window.
And I have also added it as part of the screenshot for better reference.
So here behavior scale down stabilization window.
So this is something that you have to be aware of.
And also one more thing that I wanted to share.
It can happen that in the newer version this will not be the case.
But I wanted to emphasize on this.
So let's say that when you create this, let's just change this to nginx deploy.
This is the deployment name that I have.
Now when you do a dry run on client with the output of YAML, you will see that at this stage the auto
scaling is showing as version one here.
However, the problem that can happen is that if you have a stabilization window, you need the version
two.
Remember here you see in the screenshot you have the version two.
However, here it is showing as version one.
So if you try to add a stabilization window in the version one, it will not really work.
So just change it to version two.
After you have created a manifest file in such cases, the next important topic is related to helm.
We have already discussed about helm in great detail.
However, you should be aware about all of the basic commands like you should be able to find the appropriate
helm charts using the helm search command.
You should be able to add an appropriate Helm chart repository.
You should know how to install and very important you should know about the helm template command.
Now, specifically related to helm, you should know on how to skip the crds.
Now one of the common ways is hyphen.
Hyphen skip crds.
But this might not always work.
It all depends upon how the chart is created.
So you can go ahead and look into the chart and based on how the code is, this part might change.
For example, if you look into this code associated with the CRD, you have a condition of if values
dot Crds dot install.
So if this is true, then the Crds will get installed.
If this is false, then the Crds will not get installed.
So in such cases, whenever you are installing a chart, you will have to explicitly add hyphen.
Hyphen set Crds dot install equals to false.
And if you're generating a template, you should also have to add hyphen.
Hyphen set Crds dot install equals to false.
Specifically, when we discuss about helm in your practice lab, try with the helm chart of Argo CD.
This is one important chart that you should be familiar with.
Again, it can change at a later stage, but Argo CD is something that you have to be familiar with
as well.
The next very important topic is related to ingress.
You should be able to create ingress for a specific requirement and also in ingress.
Be familiar with ingress with TLS.
Now generally when we discuss about ingress with TLS or even gateway API with TLS, one of the common
things you will see is a secret with the type of TLS.
So the type of the secret is TLS.
And here you will have a TLS certificate and TLS key.
And whenever you create an ingress you will have to specify the secret name.
So you are using you have to specify the name of the secret from which the certificate and the key will
be referenced from.
And then you can specify the host and the appropriate rules here.
Now generally when we discuss about ingress the documentation is very extensive.
You will see a lot of examples.
So this is a minimal ingress resource.
If you go a bit down.
You have manifest files available where you have multiple set of hosts as part of the ingress.
Let's go a bit down further.
So within here you have a ingress Fanout where based on the exact URI, the request can be routed to
the appropriate service.
Again, all of this we have discussed in detail as part of the course.
The aim here is to understand that multiple set of manifest files are available.
Name based virtual hosting is also something that you have to be familiar with, where as part of a
single ingress, you have multiple set of hosts, and for each host you are redirecting it to a service.
For example, Fubar.com is going to service one bar dot, Foo.com is going to the service two.
So the example here is available.
And the important one that we are discussing is the TLS, where you have to create a TLS secret.
And also within here you have a TLS based example.
You have to specify the secret name, the host, and the appropriate set of rules.
The next important pointer is related to the gateway API.
You should know the difference between ingress ingress controller as well as gateway API and the appropriate
controllers.
So you should know on how to create a basic gateway API resource.
Now again, note that when we discuss about gateway API, the rules are not directly added.
As part of this resource, you have a separate HTTP route where you can go ahead and add the rules.
This is a little different when compared with the ingress.
Now if you see this gateway API is also based on the TLS.
So you have the protocol of Https.
And within your you have to specify the secret name.
So this is the actual TLS secret where the certificate and the keys are stored.
Now discussing about the gateway API, you should also be familiar on how you can migrate an ingress
to a gateway API.
For example, it can happen that they'll give you an ingress code and they'll ask you to migrate it
to the gateway API.
Now if you see this ingress is based on TLS, so you have a TLS and then you have a secret name and
then you have the appropriate set of rules.
Now in gateway API things are a little different, although the TLS is something that you will add over
here.
But this rules part over here, you will not add as part of the gateway resource, you have to create
a separate resource, for example HTTP route.
And then you can create the rules accordingly.
Now one more thing.
Again, you don't really have to remember all of the gateway API related manifest file in the exams.
If there are any questions, you will have the documentation which is the external documentation of
the gateway API, and it is also allowed as part of the exam.
So if you go to this documentation page now within the gateway API documentation, again this is quite
extensive.
You can go to guides.
And within here you will have a lot of examples.
For example simple gateway.
This is a simple manifest file.
Then specifically discussing about the TLS over here.
So again you have a manifest file related to TLS.
So in the TLS in the certificate reference you can give the appropriate secret name where your certificates
are present.
So based on the use case related to migration or maybe even to create a gateway API resource from scratch.
The documentation is very useful.
You have to be familiar with the gateway API documentation.
The next important topic is related to the Kubernetes volumes.
You should be aware about the basics of volumes, and also that there are multiple types of volumes
that can be used.
For example, Configmap can be used as a volume, you have empty data, you have Hostpath, etc. now
in the volumes you should also know the basics of the ephemeral as well as the persistent volumes.
Ephemeral volumes are deleted as soon as the pods are deleted.
One of the classic example here would be the empty, persistent volumes goes beyond the life cycle of
the pod.
So even if the pod is removed, the persistent volume can continue to exist.
Going further on the topic of volumes, one of the very important area that you have to be familiar
with is the volume.
And the volume mounts.
So in the volume you can give a name.
This can be any name.
And here you have the type of volume you have empty, you have hostpath etc..
And then whatever volume that you have defined it has to be mounted on the pod.
So mount path is the location where the volume data will be made available inside the pod.
So you have to be familiar with both of these.
Again the documentation on volumes is quite useful.
So again here you have multiple types of volumes that are available.
Let's take an example of Hostpath.
And if you go a bit down here the manifest file examples are already available.
The most important part here is the volume and the volume mount.
So there are multiple set of examples on volume volume mounts available in the documentation, so you
can directly get it from here.
Discussing about volume and volume mounts, just keep a note about the basics of the empty volume and
its associated use case.
Again, the entire manifest file is available in the documentation.
In case if you see a question or a subtask related to it, and also be familiar with the basics of the
hostpath volume.
Again, we have discussed about all of this in detail as part of the course.
Going further, you should be very familiar with the topics of the persistent volume and the persistent
volume claim.
You should know on how the persistent volumes can be created, how the persistent volume claims can
be created, and how you can reference those PVC as part of your manifest file.
It can be Pod as well as deployment.
The next important topic is related to the storage class and dynamic provisioners.
You have to be familiar with that.
Specifically, in the storage class, you should be familiar about the default storage class and the
important part of the volume binding mode, as well as the provisioner.
You should know on how you can create an appropriate PVC that uses the storage class to create the persistent
volumes.
Now, one more point to note is that it can happen that in the exams they'll give you multiple set of
persistent volume, and you will have to create a persistent volume claim that will target a specific
persistent volume.
So how will you target a specific persistent volume?
There are multiple ways.
First you have to match the storage class, the access mode maybe the size.
And also there is one more specific part of the volume name.
So you can also claim using the volume name.
So if there are multiple set of persistent volumes that are available, the claims can use the volume
name field to explicitly bind to a specific volume.
So that is also something that you have to be familiar with.
We have already discussed this as part of the course.
So in case if this is a little confusing, make sure to revise the appropriate videos.
The next important pointer is related to the immutable Configmap.
It can happen that you will see a configmap with the appropriate configuration, and you will have a
deployment that depends on the config map.
Now in the exams it can happen that the question will state that there is some configuration that you
will have to modify as part of the config map based on a use case.
Now, since this is a immutable config map, you will not directly be able to edit this.
So you should know about the entire workflow on how you can update an immutable config map and deployment
based on the requirement.
So first you will have to fetch all of the details on the config map, store it to a file, delete the
config map, modify the file and create the config map again and deployment.
Also in case if your name changes then you can go ahead and leave it as it is.
The deployment will automatically restart.
Considering that you have modified the config map name in the deployment using the kubectl edit.
If the name is same, you can go ahead and do a kubectl rollout restart to restart the deployment.
This will go ahead and terminate all the pods and recreate the pods.
Again.
We have a exercise related to this in the video course.
So make sure that you go ahead and complete that.
The next important topic is related to the Kubernetes service.
You should be aware of various service types, specifically the cluster IP as well as the node port.
Node port again is quite important, and also you should know on how you can associate a specific deployment
to a service.
So you can create a deployment using the CLI commands like kubectl create deployment.
You can also create a service using commands like kubectl create service.
And in case if you want to directly expose a deployment to a service, you can also try the third command
which is kubectl expose deployment the name of the deployment, the type of service that you want to
create, and the name of the service.
So this will create the service and it will automatically add the deployment as part of the service
here.
So the commands can also make things simpler.
The next important pointer is related to request and limits.
You should be familiar with both of them in terms of CPU and memory.
Now again, for this example, you have a manifest file of ports, but it can happen that in the exams
they'll give you a deployment manifest.
And in the deployment manifest they might ask you to add the appropriate set of requests and limits,
or maybe modify the requests and limits based on the worker nodes configuration.
Now, discussing about the requests and limits, you should be very familiar with the capacity allocatable
and the allocated that you find as part of the kubectl describe nodes command.
It can happen that they'll give you a use case where you will have to analyze all of this, and based
on that, you will have to determine the appropriate values for the request and limits.
So this can also happen.
For example, if I quickly do kubectl get nodes I have one node that is available.
Now when I do kubectl describe node and the name of the node now within here you have the allocated
resources.
You have the allocatable and you have the capacity.
So the question might challenge you related to this data.
And based on this data, the question will ask you to set the appropriate request and limits for the
deployment.
So again we have a great exercise in the course related to this.
So make sure that you have completed that.
And your understanding on this should be clear.
Now sometimes what will happen is based on the value of the allocated resources as well as the Allocatable.
You will have to determine the appropriate result.
It can be addition, it can be subtraction, etc..
For example, let's say that in the allocatable you have 900.
And in the allocated you have 702.
So you have to find the difference.
So in such case calculator can be needed.
You can use the CLI command itself for example 900 -702.
You will get the direct answer.
So this way things becomes much more quicker.
So just be familiar with this as well.
So that's a high level overview on the part.
One of the important pointers for the CA exams.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Important Pointers for Exams - Part 2 ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the important pointers for the CPA exam.
So let's get started.
Now the first important part is related to the troubleshooting.
So in the exams you will find a scenario where you will have a broken Kubernetes cluster and you will
have to fix the cluster.
Now as we know that there are multiple components as part of the cluster, it can happen that the issue
is related to kubelet.
It can be related to the etcd, it can be related to the scheduler, API server, etc..
So it is very important that you understand the basics of each component.
So it is very important that you go ahead and understand about each component.
Here.
I will highly recommend you to practice our Kubernetes Cluster from scratch video, where we go ahead
and build each individual component from scratch to build an entire Kubernetes cluster.
Now, the reason why we have such detailed videos is to help you during the troubleshooting part during
the exams.
So this is very important section that you have to cover.
Now note that troubleshooting of broken Kubernetes cluster is not the only area it can happen that they'll
give you a troubleshooting related scenarios related to a broken deployment, or maybe a broken pod.
So for all of them, you should be ready to identify and fix the issues.
Now, when we discuss about troubleshooting a broken Kubernetes cluster, again, it depends whether
the cluster is configured through kube ADM or the components are directly configured on the system without
kube ADM.
So in such cases, one of the very important component is the Kubelet.
Always verify with systemctl status kubelet whether the kubelet is running.
Now, in case if kube Apiserver etcd are directly configured on the system, you can run systemctl status,
kube api server, etc. however, with a high level of certainty you will have a kube ADM based cluster
that would be broken and you will have to troubleshoot them.
In such case, using the systemctl status kube API server will not work because all of these are static
pods when it comes to kube adm.
All right.
So this is one part to remember.
Also note that using the Journalctl, you can look into the logs of various components.
This is also very helpful in case if it is a cube ADM based cluster.
This directory is very important etc..
Kubernetes manifest.
This is where the static pod related configurations are present.
So you can look into that.
And also you can look into the var log containers.
This is where the container specific logs will be present.
For example kube API server logs.
All of them will be present in this directory.
So you can go ahead and look into it to identify why exactly a component is not starting up or not running.
Now let us take a small example that will give you a gist.
For example, when we run a command like kubectl get pods, at this stage you are getting errors, so
you have to read the error.
This is very important.
So what it is stating dial TCP.
This is the IP address.
This is the port could not connect to server connection is refused.
Now in this case this command of kubectl get pods.
It directly goes to the API server.
Now, since you are getting error here itself, it means that there is some issue related to the API
server itself.
Now if you go to etc. Kubernetes manifest file.
This is a kube ADM based cluster.
Here you will have the configuration associated with each component.
Let's look into the kube API server.
So I'll do a cat on the kube API server.
And here just verify if you see the secure port here is 6443.
And when you're running command like kubectl get pods here the port is 5443.
So there is a mismatch.
Now why there is A5443.
And what you will have to modify.
You will have to modify the kube config file here.
And within here you have 5443.
Let's change it to say 6443.
And we'll save it.
Once you have saved this when you run kubectl get pods command.
Oops.
We made a small mistake.
It should be kubectl get pods command again.
We are getting the connection refused message.
However, this part at this stage is fixed.
Now how will you identify what is the reason behind the error?
First thing that you can check whether Kubelet is running.
At this stage Kubelet is running.
So this is good.
Now one of the ways in which you can identify why the error is coming is you can go to the var log.
And within here you can go to containers.
And within here you have to look for the API server specific container, not the calico API server but
the kube API server.
So this is the one that we are looking for.
So now when you look into this let's press shift G.
Let's come to the end.
Let's go a bit down.
Here you see there are multiple set of errors.
So what it is stating error while dialing TCP 1270012389.
Connection refused.
So there is something related to 2389 where API server is not able to connect due to which the server
is not starting up.
So let's identify what exactly this is.
Now when you go to etc. Kubernetes manifest file, let's explore the kube API server here.
Let's identify where exactly 2389 is present.
So 2389 you will see it is in the etcd servers.
Now question is is etcd listening on 2389 port.
One way to find out is look into the etcd YAML.
Now in the etcd YAML you will see that it is not really listening on 2389.
The listen client URLs here is 2379.
And in fact when you do netstat NLP also you can identify that on 2379 you have etcd running.
So there is some issue with the kube API server where you have a wrong port that is defined.
So let's go ahead and fix it.
So within here let's go ahead and change it to 2379.
And I'll save this.
Now if Cubelet is running the cube API server pod will automatically be restarted.
So when you do kubectl get pods this time you see error is not coming.
And our cube API server is fixed.
Great.
So I hope with this you got a better understanding on what are the important files that you might have
to check in case if you find a broken cluster.
Now again, note that this was a simple demo, but in exams it can be that cluster is broken due to
some configuration issue at a etcd level at a API server level.
Or it can also happen that due to requests and limits, some of the pods are not really coming up.
So you have to look into all the aspects to identify the issue.
And this is the reason why covering the Kubernetes cluster from scratch related videos that we have
as part of the course is very important to understand the integration and also the troubleshooting area.
Along with that, to aid during the troubleshooting.
You can also keep a note on the CRI CTL command using the CRI CTL command.
You can check what are the ports, what are the containers running, and other important areas.
For example, Chris CTL pods will show you all the ports.
Chris CTL will list all the containers.
You can also check for a specific container logs using the cry CTL logs, and you can also exec into
a specific container using the cry CTL exec.
For example, when I run cri ctl PS hyphen a, it is showing all of the containers not only running
but also exited.
Now when you do cri CTL pods, it will show you all of the ports.
Some of them are ready, some of them are not ready.
Now let's quickly do Chris CTL a and if you want to check the logs you can say Chris ETL crystal logs.
Let's look into some of the containers.
Let's go a bit down.
Let's take an example of this.
All right.
So I'll copy the container or let's just zoom out.
So it is much more clear.
Otherwise it is a little confusing here.
So if you go a bit up you have the container.
And what container we are interested in.
We are interested in this one.
So you can copy this I'll add this.
And you see you are seeing all of the logs.
So this also helps in wide variety of scenarios.
The next important topic is related to network policies.
You have to be familiar with reading, analyzing and also writing the network policies.
Along with that, you should also be familiar with some of the CNI plugins that support network policies.
Not all of the CNI plugins support them.
For example, you have calico psyllium.
These supports network policies.
However, some, like flannel, do not, so sometimes the exam can say that.
Go ahead and install the appropriate CNI plugins that support the network policy, and it will give
you documentation of calico and say flannel.
So which one will you install.
So you have to install calico in such case.
And then there can be a subtask related to the network policy where you'll have to create a basic one.
So this is one part that you will have to be familiar with.
Now again, the Kubernetes documentation related to the network policy is quite extensive.
So you can go ahead and get examples from there.
We have discussed about network policies in great detail as part of the course.
So this is something that you can be familiar with in case if not you can go ahead and revise it.
Now you should also be familiar with the networking specific steps.
For example, it can happen that the question will say that you have to install the Tigra operator along
with calico, and you should be able to change the Cidr based on the cube ADM, Cidr block.
So in such case, the documentation link will be provided to you so you can go ahead.
And again, this is very simple.
All you have to do is you have to install this specific operator, you have to run this command, and
then you have to install calico from this command.
However, one thing is that it can happen that the cube ADM cluster is already configured.
Now generally when you configure cube ADM you run cube adm init with the pod network Cidr.
And this is the Cidr block.
Now in case if this Cidr block is not used and a different Cidr is used, then you will have to change
this as part of the YAML file.
For example, if you open this YAML file here, let's open this.
Now within here you see the Cidr block is 192.16800 slash 16.
Now if cube adm init is configured with the same port network Cidr, then everything is good.
However, if this Cidr is different then you'll have to modify this to reflect it over here.
So there are multiple ways in which you can verify.
One of the simplest way that I can tell you is you can go to etc..
Kubernetes manifests Manifest and within a you can look into the controller manager manifest file.
And within this manifest file, if you go a bit down you will see a cluster Cidr.
So this is the Cidr block that is used.
So this is one reference point.
Along with that when you do cube CTL get config map in the namespace of cube system you have cube adm,
hyphen config.
You can also go ahead and explore that.
So let's say cube ctl get config map cube adm config in the namespace of cube system.
Let's in fact do hyphen o of YAML.
So within here you see you have the pod subnet 19216800 16.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now again all of this and many more we have already covered as part of our Kubernetes cluster from scratch
series.
So you should be familiar with this.
The next important topic is related to the container runtime interface.
You should be familiar with it.
It can happen that during the exams they will ask you to configure a specific runtime.
Now, as we know, there are multiple container runtimes that are available and the runtimes that supports
the CLI, they can be direct communication between the Kubelet and the container runtime using the appropriate
socket.
Now discussing about the container runtime, be also familiar with the installation and configuration
of the CRI docker d.
We have already discussed this in the course, so cry docker d basically allows you to have Docker engine,
and Kubelet can communicate to configure containers through the docker engine via the CRI docker d.
Now here be familiar on how you can install and configure the cri docker d using the D package we have
already discussed in the course.
So this is something that you need to keep a note of.
Along with that, you should also be familiar on how you can use the Sysctl to modify the appropriate
set of kernel parameters.
Now here you can either modify temporarily or if you want permanent changes, then you can add it directly
as part of the sysctl.
Conf.
This is not a recommended way.
The recommended way is that inside the etc. Sysctl.
Create a file like 99 hyphen customer conf and in that file add the appropriate kernel parameters that
the question might ask you to do.
So this is one point.
And also note that after you have added the appropriate kernel parameter in the Sysctl related configuration
file, it will not directly apply.
So if you want that kernel parameter to be applicable right now itself without a reboot, you can run
the Sysctl hyphen hyphen system.
So this will go ahead and load all of the parameters from the configuration files again.
Now you should also know various ways in which you can edit the resource.
One of the standard ways is the cube CTL edit.
You also have the cube CTL patch command that will allow you to update an object Non-interactively.
Now generally in the exams, if not, ask avoid using cube CTL patch.
This can take a little amount of time.
Kubectl edit is one of the easiest way.
However, you have to be careful if you make some mistakes, make sure that you do not save it and just
exit out of the default editor and try again.
Now discussing about editing, note that there are certain fields that are immutable, so you will not
be able to edit those fields.
So in such case, if there are immutable fields that you will have to edit, what is the possible workflow?
First, you will have to get the entire YAML file associated with the resource.
For example, if it is a deployment, use a kubectl get deployment name of the deployment output of
YAML and store it in a file called as deployment.yaml.
Go ahead and delete the deployment.
Modify this deployment YAML and change the appropriate immutable file, and then create the resource
from this deployment YAML file.
So this is one of the approach that you can take in case if the question asks you to edit a field which
is immutable.
Now the next important topic is related to the Multi-container pod port configuration.
You should know how to create a multi container port.
And also for each port you can have a very specific configuration like the volume volume mounts.
If both of the containers wants to share the data, then you can have the empty volume that can be mounted
across both the ports.
We have already discussed about this in our course, so make sure that you go ahead and look into it.
Now.
Again, sometimes in the question you will see a phrase like sidecar container or sidecar pattern.
So all of that is something similar to the multi container pod itself.
So this is one point that you have to be aware of.
Now again exams will not test you.
Very simple multi container based patterns.
As we are discussing it can ask you that both of these containers wants to share the data.
So in such case you will have to use empty volume.
You will have to use volume.
Volume mounts as part of the manifest.
It can be pod deployments etc. along with that at a high level overview, you should also be familiar
with the JSON path to extract some data.
Now regarding the JSON path, you don't really have to remember the commands if you will see there are
sufficient amount of example expressions that are available, so you can use this expression to get
started.
Along with that, also be familiar related to the kubectl explained command.
Now you can directly use kubectl explain pods dot metadata.
If you want to see what exactly goes inside the metadata.
And also sometimes the recursive proofs to be very useful.
For example, kubectl explained pod dot spec recursive.
So what are the fields that you can add as part of the pod spec?
Everything is available.
What is the value that it expects?
Everything is available.
So this can be useful.
So let's also quickly look into it.
So when you do kubectl explain say pod dot metadata I want to see what exactly goes inside the metadata.
So it will give you the field.
It will give you the description.
However the better way during the exams in case if you want to quickly find, you can use the recursive.
So in the pod metadata these are the fields like annotations.
Is their labels is their name is their namespace is their.
So this is much more easier to quickly find out where a specific field will reside.
Along with that, you should also keep a note on the basics of the custom resource definition.
We have already discussed this as part of the course, so make sure that you revise the basics.
You should also keep a note on the basics of the deployment and the service specific commands.
This will allow you to answer the question, if any, quite quickly.
For example, you should know how to quickly create a deployment with the replicas and expose the port.
You can also use the commands to quickly change the image of the deployment.
The kubectl rollout restart will redeploy the pods as part of the deployment.
You can also scale the deployment.
So in case if deployment has one port and if you want three pods so you can run the cube CTL scale replicas
followed by the name of the deployment.
And the last command is kubectl expose deployment.
So this will go ahead and create a nodeport service.
So the type here is nodeport.
It will create a node port service called as example service, and the deployment call as Hello World
will be associated with it.
Now, many of the commands that we have just discussed, along with various others, you will find it
as part of the kubectl quick reference guide.
So if you go a bit down, you have various common commands that you might be using, including the JSON
path based examples on updating the resources you have, commands related to changing the image, restarting
the deployment, and so on.
You also have commands related to Autoscale.
So this is for the Horizontal pod autoscaler.
In case if you want to patch, there are some examples in case if you want to edit.
There are examples if you want to scale the deployment or a replica set.
Again there are examples related to it.
So this again in case if you forget the commands, this is one of the good reference page.
So make sure that you are aware of this as well.
So that's a high level overview on the part two of the important pointers for the CA exam.
And with this we will conclude today's video.
