

=== Overview ===


--- Course Overview ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
Thanks for enrolling and welcome to the
course! Before we start getting into the
details of the Linux operating system as
well as how to use and manage Linux
systems, I want to give you an overview
of the topics will be covering in this
course. In the first section of the
course we're going to focus on Linux
fundamentals and lay down a strong
foundation of understanding before we
move on to advanced concepts. You'll start out by learning what Linux is, what a
linux distribution is and how to choose
the right one.
You'll also learn how to get access to a
Linux system as well as a couple of
different methods for installing Linux.
From there, we'll talk about the Linux
filesystem hierarchy and what sets it
apart from other operating systems.
Next, you'll be ready to start working at
the command line. Here you'll learn how
to easily navigate Linux from the
command line and how to create and
manage files and directories. This leads
to the important topic of Linux
permissions. This is one of the hardest
concepts for those new to Linux to grasp,
but i'm going to really break down this
topic and simplify it. I'll also share with
you a couple of quick shortcuts that
will make this complex topic really
click for you.
We'll keep working on command line skills by talking about ways to
customize your command line environment and how to create shortcuts called
aliases. You'll learn how to get help and find the documentation you need to make
the most out of the command line. You'll also learn how to search for and find
data on a Linux system, whether it be by name or by the contents of files.
We'll get into some advanced concepts that really demonstrate the power of the
Linux command line.   You'll learn all about input, output, redirection, and
command pipelining. Next we'll be covering users and groups. We'll talk
about the various types of users found on a Linux system and a very special
user known as the superuser. You'll learn how to share files and directories with
others.
How to manage users and groups. And we'll even talk about
switching users, running processes as others, as well as when and why to do
that.
The later sections of the course deal with Linux system administration
techniques. In this part of the course you'll learn all about the Linux boot
process. You'll learn where to find log files generated by Linux and how to use
those to troubleshoot problems. We'll also talk about managing disks and filesystems.
Of course, you'll learn about how to install applications and manage
software too.
Next, we'll cover networking concepts that apply to Linux administration and
specifically how to configure network interfaces. You'll also learn how to
transfer files over the network and in between systems.
Finally we'll talk about ways to automate tasks on Linux servers. You'll
learn about process and job management. How to schedule and automate
jobs.
Finally, you'll be taught the basics of shell scripting so you can simplify
complex tasks. And those are just the highlights… You'll learn even
more along the way. I know that it sounds like a lot of material to cover,
and frankly it is.  But the good news is that we're going to start at the beginning
and take this journey together step by step.  I've designed this course so that
each lesson builds upon the previous one. So, by the time you reach the end you'll
fully understand all the things we talked about here today.


=== Installing and Connecting to a Linux System ===


--- Linux Distributions ---

In this lesson, you're going to learn what a Linux distribution is, what the most common Linux distributions
are, and how to choose the right one for you.
Generally, when someone uses the term Linux, they're referring to the Linux operating system as a
whole.
An operating system is a collection of software that manages hardware resources and provides an environment
where applications run.
The operating system allows applications to store information, send documents to a printer and interact
with users.
For example, a Linux distribution is simply a collection of software and applications bundled together
and distributed as a single operating system.
For example, one Linux distribution might come with one particular web browser installed, while another
Linux distribution will come with a different web browser installed by default.
You'll be able to browse the web on either distribution, but the specific piece of software used to
do that might be different.
It's important to point out here that the software that comes installed by default can be changed if
you don't like the web browser that shipped with the Linux distribution you're using, you can install
another one and use that.
You can think of a Linux distribution as a curated collection of software that works well together,
but you're more than free to use the software and applications that you like best.
Before we continue, I'd like to point out that you'll often hear the term distribution shortened to
distro.
Also, some people refer to the various distros or distributions as flavors.
What every Linux distribution has in common though, is the Linux kernel.
Again, typically when the term Linux is used, it refers to the Linux operating system as a whole.
However, it can refer to just the Linux kernel as well.
The Linux kernel is the core or the heart of the operating system.
It's the layer that sits between the hardware and applications.
Said another way, it's the intermediary between software and hardware.
However, to have a useful operating system, you need other components in addition to the kernel.
These components can include system libraries, graphical user interfaces, email utilities, web browsers
and other programs.
To summarize, the Linux distribution is the Linux kernel and a collection of software that together
create an operating system.
By far, the two most popular Linux distributions used in information technology departments and by
Linux professionals are Red Hat, Enterprise, Linux and a bunch too.
So if you plan to use Linux in your current or future career as a Linux system administrator, a Linux
systems engineer, or even a database administrator or software developer, then I highly recommend
focusing on these two Linux distributions.
You can forget about the literally hundreds and hundreds of Linux distros and choose between Red Hat,
Enterprise, Linux and a bunch two.
By the way, you'll often see Red Hat Enterprise Linux abbreviated as Racheal and pronounced REL.
If you want to work for large traditional organizations like financial institutions, transportation
companies, telecommunication corporations, large retailers, health care organizations or governmental
agencies, then you should choose Red Hat.
Up until recently, you needed to pay for a license to run Red Hat at all.
However, at the time of this recording, Red Hat now lets individuals run up to 16 systems without
having to pay for a license.
It wouldn't surprise me if this changes again.
So to avoid managing and paying for licenses, you can use a Red Hat enterprise Linux derivative that's
completely free.
The two most popular free Red Hat enterprise Linux derivatives are Alma Linux and Rocky Linux.
They are really Red Hat with a branding and logos replaced with either alma logos or rocky logos.
Either one is perfect if you're going to be running Linux for personal projects at home or want a Linux
distro to practice on.
I would also like to quickly mention that CentOS Linux used to fill the role of a free Red Hat Enterprise
Linux clone.
However, it recently moved from being a clone of Red Hat to being more of a preview of what is coming
to Red Hat.
When this change happened, CentOS became Sinto stream and people who needed or liked having a clone
of Red Hat Enterprise Linux started using Alma Linux or Rocky Linux.
Now, if you want to work for a startup or smaller, more nimble web based companies like software as
a service type businesses, social networking sites, smaller ecommerce stores, or companies that rely
heavily on cloud computing, then a buncha is the distribution for you.
If you're using Linux strictly for fun, for personal projects or just want to see what other.
Their distributions have to offer.
Feel free to try out some other popular distros such as Linux, mint, majuro, pop OS, fedora, Debian,
Open Souza, Arch Linux and Slack where when choosing a Linux distro for personal use, it mainly comes
down to personal preference.
And if you like most of the software that comes installed by default.
Of course, don't forget alma linux and a bunch too.
They make great distros for personal use as well.
Ultimately, Linux is Linux at the core.
No matter which choice you make, the Linux concepts are going to be the same.
Sure, each distribution is going to be a little different, but if you can do something on one distribution,
you'll most likely be able to figure out how to do it on another.
What this really means is that you can't make a wrong decision.
Know that by simply choosing a Linux distribution, any distribution, you've already made the right
choice.
To recap, a Linux distribution is the Linux kernel and a collection of software that together create
an operating system.
The two most popular Linux distributions used in the industry today are Red Hat, Enterprise, Linux
and a bunch too.
If you want to gain Red Hat experience without paying a licensing fee, then use Almere Linux as its
red hat with the branding and logos replaced with Alma Linux branding.

--- Installing Linux using WSL on Windows (Windows Subsystem for Linux) ---

In this lesson, you'll learn how to install Linux on Windows using WSL.
That means this video is for Windows users only.
So if you're using a mac, skip ahead.
After you've learned how to install Linux using WSL.
You will learn how to access Linux files and directories using the Windows File Explorer.
Finally, you will learn how to remove any of the Linux distributions you installed with WSL stands
for Windows Subsystem for Linux and it's a Windows feature that allows you to run Linux without the
need for virtual machines or dual booting.
Also, you're not limited to a single Linux distribution, as WSL allows you to run multiple Linux distros
if you so desire.
Finally, WSL consumes less resources than virtual machines.
In order to install WSL, you need to be running Windows 10 or newer.
Also, you will need to have virtualization enabled in your computer's BIOS settings.
If you see a message from asking you to enable virtualization in your bios, then you need to boot your
computer into the bios and enable virtualization.
Now exactly how to do this varies from manufacturer to manufacturer, so you might have to look up the
documentation for your specific computer and hardware.
Finally, you need a working internet connection so you can download Linux.
There are several Linux distributions supported by WSL, including Ubuntu, alma, Linux, Debian,
Kali, Linux, Oracle, Linux and Sousa to name a few.
If you don't specify a distribution when you install Linux using WSL will install the latest version
of ubuntu LTS by the way.
LTS stands for long term support.
Now we're ready to install WSL.
First, open up a Windows terminal as an administrator to do that search for terminal and when you see
the Windows terminal application appear right, click on it and then click on Run as administrator.
The installation is really simple.
Just type L, space dash dash, install and press enter.
If L is not already installed and enabled, this command will do that.
Also, it will download and install the latest version of ubuntu.
This will take a few minutes to complete, so I'm going to speed up the video for you.
By the way, if you're prompted during the installation, just click yes.
Or allow.
Now that the installation is complete, we need to reboot windows.
Once your system reboots.
Log back in and you will see ubuntu being installed.
Keep this window open and wait until you're prompted to create a linux user.
I'm just going to create a user named admin user with a password of admin user as well.
By the way, this username and password doesn't necessarily have to be the same username and password
as you use on your Windows system.
At this point.
You can start using Linux, but I want to show you how to get back to the Linux command line in the
future.
So you can either click the X to close the window or type exit and hit enter to get back to the Linux
command line.
Search for the name of the distribution you installed.
Again, by default that distro is ubuntu, so let's search for that.
And now you can see the command line.
If you're like me and have a hard time seeing small fonts, you can right click on the top bar.
And then click on properties.
And then select the font tab by clicking on it and then set whatever size or type of font you want.
I'm going to set it at 28 and click okay.
So now I can see my terminal and my command line better again to quit the command line, click on X
in the top corner of the window like you would close any other program or type exit and press enter.
At this point you have everything you need to take this course.
There's an upcoming lesson on how to install Linux inside a virtual machine on Windows, as well as
a lesson on how to manually install Linux.
However, if you were able to get working and gain access to the command line, you will not need to
take those lessons.
Now, if you're interested in learning about virtual machines and manually installing Linux, be sure
to watch them.
But just know that to complete this course you need access to the Linux command line.
And at this point you do have that.
The remainder of this lesson will cover how to install additional Linux distributions, how to remove
them and how to access Linux files from Windows.
Okay, let's open up a Windows terminal.
I'll click there to search and type terminal and when I see the application I can hit, enter or click
on it to start it.
And that's what I'll do.
If you want to see what other Linux distributions you can install with the command run.
WSL Space Dash.
Space dash.
Oh by the way, Dash L stands for List and Dash O stands for Online.
So this will show us all the available Linux distributions we can download from online.
Let's say we want to install Debian and to do that we would run WSL space dash dash, install space
dash d Debian.
The dash d option stands for distro.
So we're telling WSL which distro to install by the way you type in the name that is shown on the left
side of the output of the dash l o command.
Okay, now we need to create a username.
And again, I'm going to use the admin user as the username and password, just like I did with the
ubuntu distro.
Okay.
Now we're at the command line and again to exit.
Just type exit and hit enter.
When you want to return to the debian command line, you can open up the debian distro like you would
open up any other application.
And of course I like searching for those.
So I'll click on the search section and type debian.
There it is.
I will click on it to open it.
And again, I can close this application like any other by just clicking the X over here in the window
and I'll do that now.
So now we have two Linux distributions installed on our Windows system and we can use both of them at
the same time if we would like to do so.
To see what distros are installed, use WSL Space dash.
L okay, there we can see our Ubuntu distribution and our Debian distribution.
This is different from what distros are available to install using the dash l o command.
Just using l space l shows us what's currently installed.
Let's say there's a distro that you would like to install that is not included in that list.
For example, I want to install all my linux, but at the time of this recording it is an available
to be installed with the command.
In this situation you would go to the Microsoft store and let me start that application.
Now just search for the Linux distribution you want to install.
And again, I'm looking for ALMA Linux, so that's what I'm going to type.
At the time of this recording, we have the option of installing ALMA Linux eight or ALMA Linux nine
and I'm going to install the latest version.
So I'm going to click on ALMA Linux nine and to install it, click on get.
It's asking me to sign in and I'm not going to do that.
But you can if you would like to.
Okay, Now that it's installed, I'll close the Microsoft store application and I'm going to open it
like I would any other application.
Or if you'd like, you can open it from the Microsoft store application right there.
But I'm going to type in Alma and see what comes up.
And we see here Alma Linux and I will click that to start it.
Now it's doing the initial installation and you're going to be prompted for a username and password.
Again, I'm not that creative, so I'm just going to use admin user as the username and admin user as
the password.
Okay.
Now we have access to an instance of ALMA Linux and again to quit or exit type exit and hit enter.
You can access the Linux file system for each distro with a Windows file explorer.
First open the file explorer.
You can search for file Explorer.
Or if you're like me, you might have a shortcut to it in your taskbar.
And I'm just going to click the file Explorer icon in the Taskbar to start it in the left hand pane,
you will notice the Linux logo, which is a penguin and the word Linux and so let's click on Linux.
Here is where you'll be able to access the files from all the Linux distros on your system.
Right now I have three Linux distros installed.
As you can see, I have alma Linux debian and ubuntu.
I'm going to double click on ubuntu to see the root of its file system and here it is the root or the
topmost level of the Ubuntu Linux file system.
Later in the course you will learn all about the Linux file system layout and where to find specific
types of files and directories.
But for now I just wanted to show you that you can use the Windows File explorer to access these files
that are inside these Linux distributions.
Okay, let's close out of the File Explorer.
Let's talk about how to uninstall a distro.
Let's say we're not going to use the Debian distribution anymore, so let's get rid of it by running
this command first.
WSL Space dash dash unregister and then the name of the distro which is debian.
That command removes the debian root file system and removes it from the view of WSL.
So if we run WSL space dash l, we won't see Debian any longer.
And again, if we go back to our file explorer, we can see that Debian is gone from this view as well.
However, the Debian application still exists and if you were to launch it it would go through the installation
process again and ask you to create a new user account.
So if you want to totally get rid of it, you need to uninstall it like any other application.
And to do that go to installed apps and remove it.
So I'm going to search for installed apps.
Okay, click on that.
And now we can search for the application here, which was Debian.
We can click on its menu and click on install to remove it.
Okay.
Confirm by clicking on install again and in just a minute this application will be completely removed
from the system.
In this lesson you learned how to install a Linux distribution using WSL.
Next, you learned how to install additional Linux distributions using the command.
From there, you installed a Linux distribution from the Microsoft store.
You then saw how easy it is to access Linux files and directories from the Windows file manager.
Finally, you learned how to remove and completely uninstall a Linux distribution.


=== Linux Fundamentals ===


--- Installing VirtualBox on Windows ---

In this lesson, you'll learn how to install VirtualBox on Windows.
That means this video is for Windows users only.
So if you're on a mac.
Skip ahead to the next video.
Before we install VirtualBox, we need to install a dependency named the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable
package.
If you're taking this course on the Udemy platform, you'll see a link to the download in the resources
section of this lesson.
Simply click that link to download the installation file.
If you're not on Udemy, you can simply search for Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable Package download.
Then once you're on the download page, click the download link for the x 64 platform.
Once the file has been downloaded, click on it to start the installation.
Click the check mark to agree to the terms and conditions and click install.
If you're asked any yes or no questions, simply click on yes.
Now click on close to complete the installation.
Now visit VirtualBox dot org and your web browser.
Now find the link that takes you to the download page.
Currently, this link is aptly named downloads, but it may change in the future.
Just simply navigate to the download section of this website.
From here, select the file for your platform, which is Windows.
So click on Windows Hosts.
Once the download is complete, click on the file to begin the installation process.
The installation is very easy.
We're simply going to accept all the defaults and answer yes to all the questions.
So here's a yes or no question.
So we'll click on Yes.
Now.
We'll click on next.
Again, we're going to accept all the defaults.
So there's nothing to do other than to click on next.
Click on.
Yes.
Again, here's another yes or no question.
So click on.
Yes.
Finally click on install to begin the installation.
At the end of the installation, clicking on finish will start VirtualBox going to minimize the web
browser to see VirtualBox and there it is.
The installation has been successful to start VirtualBox in the future.
There are a couple of ways to do it.
One way is to click on the search icon and start typing virtualbox.
You'll see the application in the search results.
To start it, click on Oracle VM VirtualBox.
Another way you can start it is by clicking on the Windows button and navigating to the application.
Click on all apps and then make sure you're looking for the full name of the application, which is
Oracle VM VirtualBox.
Click the folder to open up some options and you'll see the Oracle VM VirtualBox application here and
of course click it to start it.
Now let's install a program called seven zip.
To do that, visit seven dash, zip, dot org.
You should see a download link right on the home page.
But if for some reason they change the website, you can always find the download section of the website
to go to the full download page.
Here, I'm just going to click on the download link next to the 64 bit line.
Once the download has been completed, click on it to start the installation process.
Just like with VirtualBox, we're going to accept all the defaults and answer yes to any questions.
Click the install button.
And now the installation is complete so we can click on close.
In an upcoming lesson, you'll be asked to download and extract the contents of a compressed archive
file.
You'll do that with a seven zip program that you just installed.
Here's an example of how to do that.
I have a file downloaded that ends in dot seven Z.
I've navigated to that file using the file Explorer.
It's in my downloads directory.
Now I will click on the file to highlight it and then right click the file.
If you don't see an option for seven zip here, click on Show More options.
Now you'll see the seven zip folder here and hover over it to open up this submenu and click extract
here.
You'll see that a new folder appears.
I'm going to double click in this folder.
And then now you can see that the uncompressed file is in that folder.
Now you have everything you need to install Linux in a virtual machine using VirtualBox and you'll learn
exactly how to do that in an upcoming lesson.


=== Intermediate Linux Skills ===


--- Installing VirtualBox on Intel-Based Macs ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
This video is for Mac users only.
If you're using windows, skip ahead to the next video.
The first thing we're going to do is
open up a web browser and visit virtual VirtualBox.org.
Next, find the link that takes
you to the download page
From here, select the file for your platform which is max so well click on the link next to OS X hosts.
Once the download is complete,
we'll go ahead and click on the file to open it.
Now we can, double click on "VirtualBox.pkg" to start the installation.
Click Continue.
continue and will click continue again
and now we'll click install
It prompts you for your password go ahead and enter
that.
The installer reports that the
installation was successful so we can go
ahead and click on the close button. Now,
that the installation is complete.
You can start virtualbox by using spotlight. Press command-space or click the
magnifying glass icon in the upper right
hand corner of the menu bar to bring up
the spotlight search bar. From here,
simply type in virtualbox and press return.
You can also start virtualbox by
opening up the finder, navigating to the
applications folder and double-clicking
on VirtualBox there.
Next, let's install The Unarchiver. The easiest way to do that is to open up the app store.
Let's start spotlight again by clicking
on the magnifying glass icon in the
upper right hand corner of your screen
or again by pressing command space.
So, now just type in appstore and press
return. Next, what we want to do is search for the "the unarchiver".
That should bring up a list of matching applications.
Now simply click on install under the on
archiver and enter enter your password
if you're prompted to do so. In an
upcoming video you'll be asked to
download and extract the contents of a
compressed archive file.
You'll do that with The Unarchiver. Here's an example. I have a file I downloaded that ends in 7z.
I've navigated to that file using the
finder. Now I'll just double click the file and The Unarchiver
will extract the contents of that file. We navigate
into the folder that are created you can
see that the uncompressed file is in
that folder. Now you're ready to install
linux and a virtual machine using virtualbox.


=== The Linux Boot Process and System Logging ===


--- Installing Linux Using an OVA (Open Virtual Appliance File) with VirtualBox ---

In this lesson, you'll learn how to import an ova or an open virtual appliance into VirtualBox.
An OVA is a pre configured virtual machine that is packaged in a single file and is ready to be imported
and used in virtualization software such as VirtualBox to save you time manually installing Linux.
I've created an alma Linux OVA for you to use in this course.
Don't worry if you're interested in learning how to manually install Linux as there is a lesson on that
as well.
But to get you started quickly, I'm going to show you how to use an OVA.
First, open up a web browser and visit Linux training academy dot com forward slash 0va click on the
alma Linux gnome desktop ova download link.
Next, click on download.
At the time of this recording, the file is hosted on Google Drive.
You might see a message stating that the file is too large for Google to do a quick virus scan on it,
but that's okay.
The image is perfectly safe to use.
Simply click on download anyway.
This is a rather large file, so it could take several minutes to download.
Once the download is complete, you need to extract the contents of the archive.
First, open up the file Explorer and navigate to the folder where you save the download.
If you're on Windows right click on the archive file and click on Show More Options.
Now go to the seven Zip Submenu and click extract here.
This will take several seconds to complete.
If you're on a mac, simply double click on the archive to extract its contents.
Now that you have the OVA image downloaded and extracted, it's time to start the VirtualBox application.
Now click on the file menu and then import appliance.
Next click the folder icon next to the file input box.
Navigate to the OVA file by going to downloads, then the alma Linux gnome folder.
Finally click on the alma Linux ova file and click open.
Now click on next.
You'll see the settings for this virtual machine.
Click on Finish to import it.
Once the import process finishes, you'll see a new virtual machine named on the desktop in the left
pane of the VirtualBox application.
Click on the virtual machines name to highlight it and click on Start to boot it.
I'm going to click in the top right hand corner to get rid of this message.
Now you'll see that the VM has booted and you're presented with a login screen to log in as the admin
user, click on that username and now enter the password, which is also admin user.
All lowercase, all one word, no spaces admin ucr.
Now hit the inner return key to log in.
By the way, the root password is also admin user.
We'll be talking about the importance of the root account later in the course.
In this course you'll be spending a lot of time at the command line.
So let's practice opening up a terminal.
When you first log in, you'll be presented with a view that's called overview mode.
In this mode, you can see an icon for the terminal application at the bottom of the screen.
To start it, click on it.
To stop the terminal application, you can click on the X in the top right hand corner of that window
or type exit and hit enter.
I'm going to type exit into the terminal and hit enter to close the window, thus stopping the terminal
application.
To get back to overview mode, click on activities in the top left hand corner of the screen.
Again, you could click on the terminal icon to start it, or you could type in the search bar.
I'm going to start typing terminal and you'll see a list of applications that match the search.
Once you see the terminal, click on it to start it.
You could also press enter when the terminal application is highlighted to start it.
Now that we see everything works, I'm going to shut down the system by clicking in the top right hand
corner, then clicking on Power off logout and next click on Power off.
And finally, click on Power off to confirm.
Now you have a fully functional Linux installation that you can use to complete this course and practice
your Linux skills.


=== Disk Management ===


--- VirtualBox Troubleshooting Tips ---

1
I want to go over some common issues
2
that might arise when working with
3
VirtualBox. The first issue I want to
4
talk about is antivirus software. Some
5
windows antivirus software such as
6
Avira, AVG and others have been known to
7
interfere with the operation of
8
virtualbox. I've listed some errors on
9
your screen here that can be associated
10
with this type of issue. If you get such
11
an error when starting a virtual machine
12
try disabling your antivirus software
13
and rebooting your system.
14
Here's a screenshot of one such error.
15
Again the workaround for this is to
16
simply disable the antivirus software or
17
switch to another antivirus software
18
that doesn't interfere with virtualbox.
19
If you happen to have a mac you could
20
use it for your coursework as most of
21
the issues will be talking about here
22
are windows related in some way. If you
23
see an error in your virtual machine
24
window that says something along the
25
lines of this kernel requires an x86 64
26
cpu but only detected an i686 cpu
27
then you need to enable the
28
virtualization options in your bios. This
29
means making sure that you have VT-x for
30
Intel processors and AMD-v for AMD
31
processors enabled. This varies from
32
manufacturer to manufacturer so you
33
might have to look up the documentation
34
for your specific computer.
35
Another thing that can cause the this
36
kernel requires an x86 64 cpu message
37
can be that you've selected a 32-bit
38
processor in virtual box itself. In this
39
case the error message really isn't
40
talking about your physical processor
41
but the virtual processor that it sees.
42
Go into the settings of the virtual
43
machine you're having an issue with and
44
make sure you selected a 64-bit version
45
for whatever linux distribution you're
46
using. For example, if you're using CentOS
47
select red hat 64-bit because centos
48
really is red hat just without the
49
branding. If you are using Ubuntu make
50
sure you select Ubuntu 64-bit, etc.
51
Finally, I want to leave you with one
52
last troubleshooting step which is to
53
simply reboot your physical computer and
54
try again.
55
There's a chance that something is not
56
functioning properly that isn't
57
immediately obvious to us. When it comes
58
to troubleshooting our local systems
59
this is a relatively quick and harmless
60
thing to try.


=== LVM - The Logical Volume Manager ===


--- Installing Linux on Apple Silicon CPU Macs ---

This video is for Mac users who have an Apple silicon chip or CPU in their computer.
Now, if you have one of the slightly older Intel based Macs, you can skip this video.
However, if you have a newer computer with an Apple silicon CPU such as an MB one, MB two or newer,
you are going to need to follow the instructions in this video.
We're going to use an application called UTMB that allows you to run virtual machines.
I'll be sure to provide you with a direct download link in the instructions.
Follow that link to download the UTMB application.
Once the download completes double, click it to open it.
To install simply drag UTM to the application shortcut.
Next download the Fedora Linux image and again I'll provide a direct link to this download as well.
Currently I have the file hosted on Google Drive and this is just saying that it's too big for it to
do a virus scan.
But don't worry, this is an image that I have created and it's completely safe to download.
So we'll go ahead and click download anyway.
Once the download is complete, double click to unzip it.
Now you should be left with a file that ends in dot UTMB double click that file to open it with the
UTMB application.
Here.
You're going to get a couple of warnings because we downloaded UTMB from the Internet and Mac is just
making sure that you want to do this and go ahead and click open again.
Here we have the similar error.
We'll go ahead and click open there as well.
Now the UTMB application is running and you see the virtual machine listed in the left hand side of
the screen.
To start it, simply click the play button.
And now we just wait a few seconds to let Fedora go ahead and boot.
Once Fedora has booted up, you'll be presented with a login screen to log in as the admin user.
Simply click on that username.
Now enter the password which is also admin user in all lowercase.
And then type enter to sign in.
At this point, you're given the option to take a tour of the graphical user interface, and I do recommend
that you do that.
It only takes a couple of minutes and it will help you get acquainted with the graphical user interface
on this system.
However, I've already done that, so I'm going to click on No Things.
You're going to spend a lot of time at the command line in this class.
So let me quickly show you how to open up the terminal application.
You simply go to activities, click on it, and then type terminal.
You'll see that I haven't even finished typing it all the way and it suggests the terminal application.
Go ahead and click to open it.
By the way, any time I say anything about Red Hat or CentOS or RPM based distribution in this course,
you can do all of those things here on Fedora as it is an RPM based distribution as well.
So if you hear Red Hat or CentOS, then it's safe to follow those instructions here on Fedora Linux.
However, if I'm talking specifically about a bunch to then some of those commands are not going to
work on Fedora.
For example, the package manager on Ubuntu is different than it is in Fedora.
However, the package manager is the same on fedora, red hat and CentOS.
When you're done working with the virtual machine, come to the top right hand corner and click the
little power button here.
Then you can click power off or log out and go ahead and click Power Off to shut down the virtual machine
again, I'm going to click Power Off to finish this process.
At this point, you now have a Linux installation to use to complete this course and practice your Linux
skills.


=== User Management ===


--- When to Install Linux from Scratch or Manually ---

The next video demonstrates another method for installing Linux.
If you've already installed Linux using the OVA file or open virtualization appliance file with VirtualBox,
then you can skip the next video.
You can also skip it if you have Linux installed in any other manner as well.
The method you'll learn in the next video can be used to install Linux directly on physical hardware
or it can be used to install Linux with another virtualization system such as VMware.
Hyper-V parallels desktop for Mac, KVM and others.
You'll also want to use that method if you want to customize your install.
For example, if your first language is in English, you may want to add additional language support
for your native language.
Perhaps you want to install some additional software or maybe you want a really minimal install and
don't want to install a lot of software.
Many of these things can be changed after the initial installation, but sometimes it can be easier
to start out with a system exactly the way you like it than it is to modify an existing system.
Again, if you already have Linux installed and running in VirtualBox, you can either watch the next
video to see what a manual installation looks like or you can skip it altogether.
Either choice is fine.


=== Networking ===


--- Installing AlmaLinux from Scratch / AlmaLinux (Rocky Linux, RHEL) Manual Install ---

In this lesson, you'll learn how to install all Linux from scratch.
Or set another way.
You'll learn how to install Alma Linux manually.
Knowing how to do this is useful if you want to customize your installation or if you're working on
physical hardware.
Now, if you already have a Linux distribution installed and you're ready to move on with this course,
feel free to skip this lesson.
For example, if you have already installed Linux using a VDI or a virtual disk image in VirtualBox,
you already have a working Linux system to use for this course, so you can choose to skip this lesson
if you want to.
At this point you should have virtualbox installed on your operating system.
The next thing you're going to do is download all my Linux from all my Linux dot org.
Once you're on the website, find the download link and click on it.
By the way, this might look completely different when you're accessing the Alma Linux website.
Of course, websites get updated all the time, so just find the download section of the site no matter
where it is or what it looks like at this time.
Now choose the latest version that is next to your architecture.
For most people this is going to be x 86.
Underscore 64.
I'm on a Windows PC with an intel processor in it, so I'm going to choose x 8664 at the time of this
recording version 9.1 is the latest version of all my Linux.
So I'm going to click on that to download it.
Don't be surprised or concerned if there is a newer version when you visit the site.
Simply look for the highest number and click on that.
Now you'll be presented with a list of sites called Mirrors.
You can choose any of the options because they all contain copies of the exact same files.
I'm just going to click on the first one in the list.
Now you are presented with a list of files.
Click on any of the files that contain the text DVD.
Once you do so, the download will begin.
It's a very large file, so it will take some time to download.
Once the ISO file has been downloaded, you're ready to create a virtual machine.
So go ahead and start the virtual box application.
Create a new virtual machine by clicking on machine and then clicking on new.
You can see that VirtualBox asks you for a few bits of information.
The name, the machine folder, the ISO image, the type, and the version.
I'm going to name the virtual machine on the desktop.
Use the default value in the folder field unless you need to store the virtual machine in some other
location where you have more disk space such as another drive.
Next, you'll see a line that starts with ISO image on the right hand side of that line, click on the
arrow.
If you've used other ISOs with VirtualBox before, you'll see them listed here.
Since this is the first time we're using this specific ISO, we need to click on other.
Navigate to your downloads folder and click on the iso.
Here I have a shortcut to my downloads folder and I'll click on that.
And now I'll highlight the ISO and click on open.
Near the bottom of the window you'll see text that reads Skip unattended installation.
Click the checkbox next to that text.
The reason we want to do that is twofold.
The first reason is that VirtualBox may not support unattended installations for this specific version
of Linux.
There will always be a delay between the latest release of Linux and support for the unattended installation
to appear in VirtualBox.
The second reason is that this allows us to simulate what it's like to install Linux directly on physical
hardware or other virtualization platforms.
This way you'll know how to install Linux anywhere, not just inside VirtualBox.
Now that we've selected to skip the unattended installation, click on next.
The minimum amount of memory recommended is two gigabytes or 2048 megabytes.
I have plenty of RAM on my system, so I'm going to dedicate about half of my memory resources to this
virtual machine.
I'm going to type 4096 megabytes, which is four gigabytes in the base memory box.
As for the number of CPUs, I'm going to leave it at the default of one.
You might want to assign more CPUs to the virtual machine if you are going to be running resource intensive
applications.
If you want to explore the desktop and use the VM for learning Linux, there's no need to add more CPUs.
Now we're ready to click on next, so I'll do that now.
At this time we need to create a virtual hard disk in the disk size field.
I'm going to set it to 100 gigabyte.
The default of 20 gigabyte is enough to perform the installation, but I like having some additional
space.
It's important to note that the virtual disk space is dynamically allocated by default.
This means that only the amount of space actually used by the virtual machine will take up space on
your physical computer's disk, even though you set the size of the virtual disk to 100 gigabyte.
For example, if you wanted to pre allocate the entire size of the virtual disk, you would click on
the checkbox next to pre allocate full size.
If you do that, then the entire size of the virtual disk will consume that same amount of space on
your physical disk.
If your primary concern is about preserving disk space or using as little space as possible, leave
this box unchecked.
However, if you're looking for better performance, check the box.
If you're not sure if you need extra performance, just use the default and leave the box unchecked.
So once you've decided on your disk size, click on next.
Now you'll be presented with a summary of the configuration for the virtual machine that you're about
to create.
Click on Finish.
Now we're ready to start the virtual machine.
So click on Start.
The virtual machine will power on or start up and boot from the ISO file.
You'll notice that you have three options to test this media and install on the Linux option is highlighted.
It's hard to tell that it's highlighted, but it is.
What this will do is make sure that the image you are using isn't corrupted.
I recommend going with the default, so press enter to start the installation.
You'll see the system start to boot and perform a check on the media.
If for some reason the ISO got corrupted during the download process, this will alert you to that fact.
You may notice a message from VirtualBox.
This message tells us that we need to click inside the VMs window in order to use the mouse with the
VMM.
What we're going to do is click the X to close this message.
Now to interact with the VM, click inside its window.
This allows the virtual machine to take control over the mouse and keyboard.
So anything you type or any mouse movements you make are going to the virtual machine at this point
to give control of the mouse and keyboard back to the host system.
You need to press the host key, which is a special key reserved for virtual box actions.
The default host key on a mac is the left command key, while the default host key on Windows is the
right control key.
Even if it's something different, you can always tell what the host key is by looking in the bottom
right corner of your VM window.
I'm on window so you can see the words right?
Ctrl which stands for the right control key.
Again, that is displayed in the bottom right corner of the VMM window.
We've clicked inside the virtual machines window and now we're inside of our virtual machine, if you
will.
And the first thing we need to do is select the language.
And as you can hopefully tell, I speak English, so I'm going to use the default of English and click
continue.
There are many selections you can make here on this installation summary screen.
Most of them are optional.
However, anything with an alert symbol next to it requires your attention.
Let's start by clicking on the installation destination since it has an alert icon next to it.
The only thing you have to do on this screen is to simply click done.
Now Alma Linux is forcing you to make sure that you are installing it to the right disks.
This virtual machine only has access to one virtual disk and it's already selected.
By the way.
If it wasn't selected, you can go ahead and click on it and you'll see a checkmark indicating that
it is selected.
So if it wasn't selected, it would look like this and you would click it again and then you would see
the check mark.
So again, once there's a check mark by the disk, go ahead and click on done.
Now you can see that the alert icon has disappeared next to the installation destination.
We want to enable networking for our installation option, so click on network and hostname.
Next, if you see the word disconnected next to the interface name, go ahead and click the on off toggle
switch.
The network interface status should go from disconnected to connected.
Now, if it looks like this and it says it's connected and you see the blue background that the toggle
is on, there's nothing to do on this screen.
So either way, click on done.
The next thing we need to do on this screen is to change the software selection.
So now click on software selection in the left hand pane, click on workstation.
Now on the right hand side, click on development tools.
And if you can't see it in the right hand pane, click on the scroll bar to page down until you can
see it.
So I'll click over here on the bottom of the scroll bar so that I can now see development tools.
So what you do is click next to development tools.
By the way, what you're looking for is the small mouse in the window.
Here you can see that I have two mouse pointers and we're going to fix this in a little bit.
But when you're first doing the installation, you might see something like this.
So just pay close attention to the little small mouse pointer and that is what you are guiding.
By the way, if you don't select development tools, you won't be able to install something later called
VirtualBox Guest editions.
And we'll be talking about those guest editions in a little bit.
So just make sure that there is a checkmark next to development tools.
These are the only changes we need to do on this screen.
So now we are ready to click on done.
Finally, we need to set a root password.
You may not be able to see that setting, so hover over the scrollbar on the right and click on it to
page down.
Now you can click on root password.
We'll be talking about the root account in detail later in this course.
But for now, just choose a password.
It's very important to remember that password.
And if you can't think of a password, then I'll suggest one for you.
It's admin user, all lowercase, all one word.
So I'm just going to enter that now.
A d m i n u s e r and I'll go to the next box here where I can confirm that password and type it again.
Admin user.
As you can see, there's a little message at the bottom of the screen.
If the password you've chosen is considered to be weak, it's going to require you to press Dunn twice
to confirm that password.
So this particular password is weak.
Now, this is a virtual machine that no one but me will have access to.
So I'm not really concerned about a strong password here.
So go ahead and click on done once.
If you have a strong password or twice if you have a weak password.
At this point, we're ready to start the installation.
So click on begin installation.
Now you can simply sit back and relax as the installation will take several minutes to complete.
I'll speed it up here on video so you don't have to wait.
Once you see a complete message from the installer click reboot system so you can finish the installation.
Once the system has rebooted, you'll be greeted with a welcome screen.
Click on Start setup.
If you don't want location services enabled, click the toggle switch to turn them off.
Personally, I'm fine with location services being enabled, so I'm going to accept the default here
and click on next.
At this point you can connect your online accounts.
I'm going to personally skip this process now.
You can also skip it and always do it later if you decide you want to.
So go ahead and click on Skip.
Now you're being asked to create an account for yourself on the system.
Of course, you can fill in your actual real name here, but I'm going to keep it generic and use admin
user.
A suggested username will be generated based on your input.
You can accept the default or click on the down arrow for more options.
Finally, if you don't like the auto generated options, you can click in the username field and type
your own username.
I'm fine with admin user and I'm going to use that.
So click on next.
On this screen you need to supply a password for your account.
Again, since this is a test system for myself, I'm going to use the very insecure password of admin
user.
Once you've entered your password twice, click on next.
Finally, click on start using Alma Linux.
So what you see here is a tutorial or a tour for the desktop environment, which is called GNOME.
If you click, no thanks, you'll go straight into the desktop environment.
If you click, take tours.
Then you'll learn about some of the desktop features.
Now I recommend you click, take tours and read through the information that follows.
For the sake of time, I'm just going to click No thanks, and let you explore that tour on your own.
At this point, your job would be completely done if you were installing Linux directly on physical
hardware such as a desktop computer, a laptop or a server.
However, since we're using a virtual machine, we can optionally perform one more step that will help
Linux understand the virtual hardware that it's working with.
That step is to install a piece of software called VirtualBox Guest editions.
One of the main benefits of installing VirtualBox guest editions is that the Linux desktop will conform
to the shape of the virtual machine window.
For example, if I click the host key to detach the mouse from the virtual machine and back to my host
operating system, then I can resize the window.
But what we see when I do that is that the usable space of the Linux desktop doesn't expand or conform
to fit the window.
Instead, we just see a non usable background expand around the Linux desktop.
Another benefit of installing VirtualBox guest editions is that you get mouse integration, and mouse
integration is the ability to use the host computer's mouse in the guest operating system without having
to click into it and then without having to release it by pressing the host key.
So if you're looking for the best Linux desktop experience within VirtualBox, then you'll want to install
the VirtualBox guest editions.
And to do that, remember to first press the host key, which is the left command key on a mac or the
right control key on Windows.
Now that lets your host system take back control of the mouse and keyboard.
Now click on the Devices menu in the VirtualBox application and then click insert guest edition CD image.
Now you'll see a pop up that asks you if you would like to run the software that is on that image.
And we do.
So first, click inside the virtual machine to give control back to the mouse and keyboard and click
on Run.
You'll now see a prompt asking for your password.
The password that is being asked for is the password of your user account.
Now, this might be the same password as the root account, or it might not be depending on what you've
done in the previous steps.
Again, it's important to know and memorize the password for the root account as well as your own personal
account.
Now, if you've been using my suggestions throughout this lesson, the password is going to be admin
user, so I'm going to enter that now admin user and click on authenticate.
Now we'll wait for the VirtualBox guest editions to install.
Once the installation is complete, you'll get a message to press return or enter to close the window.
And that's what we'll do now.
I'm going to hit the inner or return key.
Now we need to reboot the virtual machine, and to do that, we'll click in the top right hand corner.
Now we'll click on Power Off Logout and we'll click on Restart to restart our virtual machine.
If there are any updates to install to the operating system, it'll ask you if you'd like to do that.
And I'm going to do that.
I'm going to leave the install pending software updates checked and go ahead and click on restart.
Now if you want to be a little quicker here, you can uncheck this and click restart.
Either way is fine.
Now the system has been rebooted, so I'm going to click on my name here or click on admin user.
Enter the password of admin user and log in.
Now, if I were to resize the window, the Linux desktop should expand to fit that resize.
So let me do that.
I'll drag and drop it.
And as you can see, once I've done resizing the window, the desktop expands to fit the area.
So that brings us to the end of this lesson and wraps up the manual installation of Alma Linux.
Again, all Linux is a clone of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, so this exact same process applies to Red
Head, Enterprise, Linux and any other RedHat Enterprise Linux clones such as Rocky Linux.


=== Advanced Linux Permissions ===


--- Logging In Directly to a Linux System ---

In this lesson, you're going to learn how to connect directly to a Linux system if you have Linux directly
installed on your computer.
Then accessing the system is as simple as typing into that computer.
For example, you might have Linux installed as your primary operating system on your laptop and you
can just type using the attached keyboard.
Perhaps you have Linux installed on a server that you have physical access to.
In that case, connect to keyboard and monitor to the server and you're ready to go.
In most data centers there will be a keyboard and monitor that can be easily moved around and connected
to an individual server at any given time as shown in this picture on your screen.
Let's talk about accessing Linux when it's installed in a virtual machine.
First, open up the virtualization software on my Windows computer.
I have Linux installed in a VM using the VirtualBox application, so I'll open up VirtualBox.
I'm simply going to search for VirtualBox and then open it up.
Click on the virtual machine that you want to use and then it becomes highlighted.
And from there you can click start to start the virtual machine and let it start to boot up.
After the virtual machine has booted, you'll be presented with a login screen.
Here we are looking at a graphical user interface login screen for Alma Linux.
If you see the username listed, you want to log in with, click it and if not click not listed, I'm
going to click on the admin user and enter the password for that account, which is admin user.
All lowercase, all one word, and I'm going to hit enter.
When you first log in, you'll be presented with a view that's called overview mode.
In this mode you can see an icon for the terminal application at the bottom of the screen.
To start it, click on it to stop the terminal application, you can click on the X and the top right
hand corner of the window or type exit and hit enter.
I'm going to type exit in the terminal and hit enter to close the window.
To get back to overview mode, click on activities in the top left hand corner of the screen.
Again, you could click on the terminal icon to start it, or you could type in the search bar.
I'm going to start typing terminal and you'll see a list of applications that match the search.
Once you see the terminal application, click on it to start it.
You can also press enter when the terminal application is highlighted to start it.
To log out a form of Linux, click on the top right hand side of the window, click on power off, log
out and finally click on.
Log out.
Confirm that you want to log out by clicking Log out.
To log back in, just click on your username.
In this case, again, I'm going to use admin user and type the password and hit enter.
So that's how you can log in.
Initially when the system boots log out and log back in again.
If you wanted to take a break between your work, for example.
And of course when you're done with a virtual machine, you can shut it down like I am going to do now.
So I'm going to go to the top right corner, click on the Power button icon, then click power off,
Log out, click Power off.
And finally confirmed by clicking Power off, let's see what it's like to log into an Aberto Linux system.
I'm going to highlight my a Bantu virtual machine and then instead of going to the top right and clicking
start, there's another way to start.
I can right click and then hover over, start and then click on normal start.
This will power on the virtual machine and start to boot a bunch to this Linux system is configured
to boot into a graphical user interface.
And here we're presented with a list of users that we can select.
I'm going to select the admin user and then I'm going to type in the password and hit enter to log in.
You'll notice that the desktop is slightly different than Alma Linux, but it behaves in much the same
way.
You'll see a list of applications on the left hand side of your screen and you can click on one of those
to start it if you would like.
But if you don't find what you're looking for, you can go ahead and come to the top left and click
on activities.
From here.
You can search for an application.
In this case, we're looking for the terminal application, so I'll type in terminal.
You can click it with a mouse to start it, or if it's highlighted like it is here, you can hit enter
to start it and I'll just go ahead and hit enter.
As you already know, once you're done with the terminal application, you can close it by typing,
exit and hitting enter.
So let's say I'm done with this virtual machine for the day, so I'm going to power it off.
I'll go to the top right hand corner, click on the power icon, click on Power off, Log out, click
on, Power off.
And finally, click on Power off again to confirm.
Sometimes you'll be presented with a text prompt to log in instead of a graphical user interface.
I'll demonstrate this with a VM.
I've named Alma server.
It's actually the same as the Alma desktop VM with one exception, and that exception is that I configured
it to not start the graphical user interface on boot.
So I'll highlight the VM and click on start to boot it.
This is the type of screen you'll see if you plug a monitor into a server, for example.
This can also be very similar to what you see when you connect to a Linux system over the network,
and we'll cover connecting over the network in another lesson.
Instead of being given a list of users to choose from, you have to type in your username.
The user.
I want to log in as is admin user with a password also of admin user.
Now you're presented with a command prompt and of course when you're done you can exit back out to the
login screen by typing exit.
Let me log back in again real quick.
However, if you want to power off the system from the command line, you can type the command sudo
space, shut down space now and hit enter.
You'll be prompted for a password, which is your account's password and I'll enter that in now.
By the way, don't worry about the specifics of this command just yet.
Just know that it shuts down and powers off the system.
We'll get into detail of what each of these things does later in the course.
So those are the ways to connect to Linux directly.
For most of you in this course, this will be all you need to know about accessing Linux systems and
you can skip the lesson on connecting to Linux over the network.


=== Shell Scripting ===


--- The Linux Directory Structure ---

In this lesson, you'll learn about the Linux directory structure where you can find different components
of the Linux operating system and you'll see how applications can use the same conventions as the Linux
operating system for their directory structure as well.
So why should you even care about the Linux directory structure?
Well, having a solid understanding of the directory structure will increase your overall knowledge
of Linux.
Help you navigate the file system, save you time because you know where system components and files
are most likely to be and helps you in troubleshooting issues because you'll be able to find log files
and configuration files.
Typically, applications use the same standards for their directory structure, so by learning the Linux
file system layout, you'll be able to use and administer applications more effectively.
Overall, your experience of using a Linux system will be improved by understanding the key ways Linux
organizes its files and directories.
First, I would like to share with you some of the most common top level directories that you'll see
when using the Linux operating system.
There are several top level directories to be aware of, but these first few are the most important
and they're the ones you'll interact with the most often.
The Linux directory structure is like a tree.
The base of the Linux file system hierarchy begins at the root.
Directories will start to branch off the root, but everything starts at root.
The directory separator and Linux is symbolized by a forward slash and is often abbreviated to just
slash.
So root is often referred to as slash as there are no other directories above it.
If you hear someone say well look in slash or that file is in slash, they are referring to the root
directory bin or slash bin or a forward slash bin is where you will find binary files or executable
programs.
Programs are written in source code which is human readable text.
Those text files are then compiled into machine readable binaries.
They are called binaries because machine code is a string of zeros and ones.
Keep in mind that applications that you can run are sometimes located in forward slash bin slash ETSI
or ETSI is where you'll find configuration files, configuration files, control how the operating system
or applications behave.
For example, there is a configuration file in slash ETSI that tells the operating system whether to
boot into text mode or graphical mode.
Slash home is where user home directories are stored.
So for example, my home directory would be forward slash home Ford slash Jason Linux systems can and
often do have multiple users or multiple user accounts and the home directory is where you can separate
your data from another accounts data.
You can store anything you want in your home directory like documents, music files or vacation pictures.
Opt is where optional or third party software is stored.
OPT is for software that is not bundled with the operating system.
For example, Google Earth is not part of the standard Linux operating system, so that application
would typically be installed in forward slash opt slash temp is called temp and it's for temporary space.
Most Linux distributions clear slash temp at boot time.
So if you put files in temp and the Linux server or your Linux desktop gets rebooted, the files you
stored in temp will be gone.
Temp is a great place to store temporary files, but don't put anything in temp that you want to keep.
Long term slash user is called the user directory and it's where user related programs live.
Each one of these directories can have subdirectories.
For example, we already talked about Ford slash home, Ford slash user name.
The user directory is no different and there will be a sub directory structure within Ford slash user.
For example, you'll find binary programs and executables located in slash user slash bin slash.
Var also called var is for variable data.
Think of things that change often.
Things that change often on a Linux system are typically log files that are generated either by the
operating system itself or applications.
In Linux, we typically talk about directories, but other operating systems may call the similar concept
folders.
If you think about it in terms of folders, then slash or root is the main folder, and each one of
these are subfolders.
Again, folder and directory is often used interchangeably, but in Linux we're going to use the term
directory.
Here's a graphic that illustrates that each one of the directories hangs off of slash or starts at the
root.
This graphic simply illustrates that each directory can have its own set of subdirectories.
Here's yet another way to visualize this.
And in this example, we can see that home JSON has three directories, documents, downloads and music.
Up until this point, we've only talked about a few top level directories.
However, when you actually get.
On a live Linux system, you're going to see that there are several other top level directories.
I want to expose you to these other top level directories so that you're slightly familiar with them
when you see them.
Probably the most interesting directory on your screen that we haven't talked about yet is forward slash
boot files that are needed to start or boot the operating system live in slash boot.
This is where you'll find the Linux kernel.
For example, here are even more top level directories.
I want to point out one on this screen.
In some Linux distributions, the directory slash media is used as a location to access the file stored
on CD ROMs, DVDs or USB drives that are inserted into the computer.
The contents of these devices are mounted at this location, allowing you to interact with them as if
they were local files.
Here are even more top level directories that you might find on a Linux system.
Earlier we talked about home directories residing in home.
This is true for normal user accounts, but there is an exception for the root account.
Root's home directory is forward slash root root is a special administrative account and we'll be talking
more about that account elsewhere in this course.
Just know that Roots Home Directory is not slash home slash root, but is instead slash root.
Some Linux distributions.
Use forward slash serve as a location to store data served by the Linux server.
For instance, web files could be in forward slash CRV, Ford slash w w w.
And if it's an FTP server, then the files might be located in forge slash CRV.
Slash FTP.
As I mentioned earlier, the user directory will have a directory structure of its own.
Here are some common things you'll find there.
For example, user bin for binaries, user lib for libraries and user local for software that's not
installed as part of the base operating system.
Let's switch gears a little bit and start talking about application directory structures.
You'll find that some applications that are not bundled with a Linux operating system or distribution
are installed in user local and often they're installed in user local program name and from there they'll
have their own subdirectory structure.
And this example crash plan is backup software that's not bundled with a Linux distro.
If you were to install it from their website, it would install into user local crash plan.
If you wanted to find the binary for this program, you would look in user local crash plan bin.
If you wanted to configure how the program behaves at runtime, you would modify configuration files
that are located in forward slash user slash local slash crash plan, slash ETSI.
And if you wanted to see the log files that this program is generating, again, you would look in user
local crash plan under the log sub directory.
By the way, that's where this software gets installed at the time of this recording.
But of course that could change and I have no control over the crash plan application.
Just be aware if you try to install it yourself, it may install in different location, but this is
just one example of how many applications get installed on a Linux system.
I mentioned earlier that applications can get installed in forward slash opt or slash.
Opt AVG is an antivirus software that is not bundled with a Linux distribution.
This particular application installs itself into forward slash opt forward slash avg, so you'll see
this common pattern a lot.
An application will install to forward slash opt forward slash application name and then have a subdirectory
structure of its own with its actual binary located in slash bin.
Here is a slight variation you'll sometimes see applications follow.
Let's take this fictitious application called my app for example, even though the main my app program
gets installed and opt my app where perhaps the binaries and libraries live, you'll also see that it
installed files in ETSI opt my app.
That is where you would find the configuration files for this particular application.
The log files in this example would be stored in var opt my app.
Sometimes when applications are installed, they are not given their own directory structure.
Instead they are installed in a shared manner.
For example, an application my app could get installed in user local.
The binary would be located at user local bin.
My app and the configuration for this file would be at user local ETSI.
My app conf.
Note that the user local bin directory would not only contain my app but also other applications that
were installed in this shared manner.
Another common practice is to use the directory slash opt slash company name or slash opt slash organization
name to install software written by a specific company or organization.
For example, if you work for the Acme Corporation, you might see programs installed in the Opt Acme
bin directory.
This helps maintain a clear separation between software developed in-house and software from external
sources.
Another slight variation on the theme of application directory structures is to use slash opt followed
by slash company name and finally slash product name.
A real life example is Google.
So when you install Google's Chrome browser on Linux, it installs into OPT, Google Chrome and Google
Earth installs into OPT Google Earth.
Here's yet another slight variation, and I promise we're almost done with this.
Opt organization name or opt company name or even user local organization name or company name.
The most important thing to know about applications that are not shipped with the Linux operating system
or by default in a Linux distribution is that they're typically found in forward slash opt or in slash
user slash local.
In summary, the most common top level directories that you'll interact with on a Linux system are slash
also called root bin or slash bin or a forward slash bin, then a slash Etsy slash home slash opt slash
temp slash user and slash var.
Also applications that are not shipped with a Linux operating system are typically installed in either
user, local or in opt.


=== Advanced Command Line Skills - Command Line Kung Fu ===


--- The Shell ---

In this lesson, you'll learn what the shell is, how to access it.
And we'll talk a little bit about the super user account.
The shell is the default user interface to a Linux system.
When you log into a Linux system over the network, the shell is the program that starts and acts as
your default interface to the system.
If you're presented with a text based login prompt, you'll also be interacting with the shell By default.
If you log into a graphical user interface, then you'll need to start a terminal emulator application
to gain access to the Shell.
And on the Linux for example, you can go to the activities menu, then type terminal and click on it
to start it.
It's the same for a bunch to just click on activities in the top left corner of the screen and start
typing terminal.
Once you see the terminal application, click on it to start it.
You can also press enter when the terminal application is highlighted to start it.
The graphical user interface on a Linux system is also called a shell, but it's a graphical shell.
However, if someone isn't specific and they say shell, they're typically talking about the command
line interface.
The shell is nothing more than an application or program that takes the commands you send to it and
executes those commands for you.
Sometimes you'll hear the shell referred to as a command line interpreter.
The command line interface can be more powerful than the graphical interface.
For example, if you have several files and you need to perform the same operation on all of those files,
you can often do this easily at the shell.
If you had 100 documents that you needed to rename, you could run a command at the shell to do all
100 at once.
However, if you're using the graphical user interface, you would have to click on the first file,
rename it, click on the next file, rename that one and repeat that process 98 more times.
In this instance, the command line is a much better solution.
Another reason you want to be familiar with a command line and be able to use it effectively is that
it's always going to be there.
Most server editions of Linux distributions do not include a graphical interface.
Also, when you're connecting to a Linux system over the network, you're typically going to be connecting
via SSH or secure Shell, which gives you access to the command line interface as well.
Desktop Linux distributions have both graphical user interfaces and command line interfaces, allowing
you to have the best of both worlds.
When it makes sense to use the command line, we'll go ahead and use it, and when it makes sense to
use a graphical program, then use that program.
For example, if I was working on a Linux desktop and wanted to visit Wikipedia on the web, I would
start a graphical web browser like Firefox.
Now there are command line web browsers that come with Linux so you can surf the web from the command
line.
One of those is called links spelled ly and X.
You can use links to browse to any page you want, but the experience is not the same as it would be
in a modern graphical web browser.
Given the choice of using command line for web browsing or graphical web browsers such as Firefox.
Well, I would choose Firefox when the shell is started.
It displays a prompt or a shell prompt.
The prompt simply sits there and waits for you to do something interesting.
Like give it a command to execute a shell prompt typically gives you some sort of useful information.
In this example prompt you'll see a username which is JSON, followed by an at symbol and the name of
the Linux system that you're connected to.
In this case Linux, SVR or Linux Server.
At the end of the prompt, you'll see a dollar sign, which is an indication that you're using the system
as a normal user as opposed to a super user.
The super user shell prompt typically ends with a pound sign.
The super user on a Linux system is also called root as it is the root account.
We previously talked about the root of the file system or slash being root, but this is a different
route.
This is an account called root.
So when someone talks about root, they're either talking about slash, which is the beginning of the
file system or the superuser account named root.
Obviously, you'll know which one.
Given the context, the root account on a Linux system is similar to an administrator account on a Windows
system.
Anything that can be done on a Linux system can be done by the root user.
Normal user accounts can only do a subset of the things that the root account can do.
Most of your day to day activities will be performed with the normal user account.
Root access is typically restricted to system administrators.
For example, if you're working in a company and you have access to Linux servers, there will be a
team of people that are responsible for the upkeep, maintenance and configuration of those servers.
And those people are the system administrators.
Sometimes there are not dedicated people who are system administrators.
For example, if you're running Linux on your desktop, you'll have access to a normal user account
and the root account as well.
You may need root access if you're going to install an application that resides outside of.
Your home directory.
You may also need root access in order to start or stop that application.
Applications that run as services or servers typically need root access to start or stop.
For example, you need root access in order to start a web server.
However, you don't need special privileges to start normal applications like a web browser, for example.
Prompts can vary greatly in appearance.
Sometimes they're very simple.
They're only one character in length, like a dollar sign.
Sometimes they contain more useful information, such as the account you're using, the name of the
server that you're connected to and the directory that you're currently in.
And a couple of these prompts here on your screen, you'll notice a tilde.
The tilde is a shorthand way of representing a home directory.
The tilde used by itself represents your home directory or the current accounts home directory that
you're using.
For example, if I'm logged into a Linux system with a JSON account, Tilde represents forward slash
home forward slash JSON.
You can also append a username to the tilde and that will expand to that accounts.
Home directory.
For example, Tilde Pet could expand to forward slash home forward slash pat routes.
Home directory is typically forward slash root.
So tilde root equals forward slash root.
Not all accounts on a Linux system are associated with an individual user.
For example, services often have their own accounts.
In this case, tilde FTP expands to the home directory of the FTP service account which lives in forward
slash far forward slash FTP.
So far we've looked at prompts that are contained within a single line.
Just know that they can span multiple lines as well.
Later in this course you'll learn how to customize the shell prompt to your liking.
In summary, the shell is the default user interface for Linux systems.
You're automatically presented with a shell prompt if you connect to Linux over the network using SSH.
If you log into a graphical user environment, you can start the terminal application to gain access
to the command line.
Shell prompts are symbols or text that appear on the command line interface.
The appearance of shell prompts can vary greatly depending on the system, the configuration and personal
preferences.
Root is a special user on a Linux system.
It's the all powerful super user.
Your day to day activities will be performed using your regular user account, while system administration
tasks will be performed using the root account.


=== Extras ===


--- Essential Linux Commands / Basic Linux Commands ---

In this lesson, you'll learn some basic yet essential Linux commands.
Learning these basic Linux commands can be incredibly valuable for someone new to Linux.
These commands can help you quickly navigate through the system and perform common tasks.
However, these basic Linux commands that you'll learn here are universal and can be used on any Linux
distribution, making them an essential foundation for your Linux knowledge.
The first thing you need to know about Linux commands are that they're case sensitive, so lowercase
p dx is not the same as capital P, Capital W, capital D, for example.
This really isn't much of an issue because most commands in Linux are all lowercase.
Of course there are a few exceptions, but again, the majority of Linux commands are in all lowercase.
The first command to know is p WD and it displays the present working directory.
I like to think of the present working directory as my current directory or the directory that I'm in.
For example, when you log in to a Linux system, you're automatically placed into your home directory.
Your home directory is typically forward slash home forward, slash your user name.
As you can see, I have a screenshot where I've logged into a Linux system as the user named admin user
and I executed the P command.
The command displayed my present working directory or my current directory as forward slash home forward
slash admin user CD is the change directory command and it does exactly what its name says.
It changes your present working directory.
As I mentioned before, when you log into a Linux system, you're automatically placed into your home
directory.
Your home directory again is typically forward slash home forward, slash your user name in order to
navigate to a different location or directory on the file system, you will use the CD command followed
by the directory you want to change into.
If you don't provide a directory to change into, then the CD command will place you back into your
home directory.
The next command to know is RLS and it lists the contents of directories.
So when you execute the RLS command you will see what files and directories exist in your current working
directory.
RLS can also display detailed information about files and directories.
For example, if you use the Dash L option to the RLS command, it will display a long listing format.
It's important to note that you need a space after the command and before the hyphen.
So it's L.
S space hyphen l.
The cat command concatenate files.
Essentially the function of the cat command is to show the contents of files.
The clear command clears the screen.
If you have output from several different commands displayed on your screen and you want to start over
with a fresh view type clear hit enter and you'll have a nice clear screen to begin filling up again.
Linux systems come with built in documentation.
You can use the man command to display documentation for a given command.
If you hear someone talking about man pages, this is what they are talking about.
The documentation that can be viewed with a man command.
By the way, man is short for manual.
Personally, I use man pages as my primary source of information.
I rarely use a search engine to learn how to use a command because the built in man pages correspond
directly to the command that is installed on the system that I'm working on.
For example, if you want to learn how to display the contents of a directory in reverse order, you
could type manned space RLS and hit enter and find exactly what option does that.
And by the way, it's dash r.
Once you are displaying a man page, you can press the spacebar to display the next page of information.
And once you're done looking at a man page type cue to quit to exit or log out of your shell, use the
exit command.
Let's see some of these commands in action.
Here I am logged into a Linux system using an account named admin user.
Let's see what my present working directory is and we can do that with p w d oc reports back that I'm
in home admin user.
This is the home directory for the admin user and it's where I would expect to be when I first open
up a terminal or first log into a Linux system.
As you might recall from earlier, I said Linux commands are case sensitive.
So let's see what happens if we type in Capital D.
OC.
We get an error message saying that the command is not found.
Let's try other variations of capitalization.
Och, that's not found either.
Course, this isn't going to be found either.
And just for fun, we'll do one more.
Again, the lesson here is that case matters when using the Linux command line.
Now let's use the CD command to change the current directory.
I've typed CD four slash ETSI and that should put us in the ETSI directory.
And let's confirm that with a command.
Okay, great.
Our present working directory is indeed forward slash ETSI.
Now, if you look at the prompt, you might notice that it contains the name of the directory you're
in.
This isn't always the case by default, but it is a common practice.
In a later lesson, you'll learn exactly how to customize the prompt to your liking.
It's also important to know that directories and files are case sensitive as well.
So Capital ETSI is not the same as lowercase ETSI.
We get an error message because Ford slash capital E Capital PT Capital C does not in fact exist because
it is completely different than lowercase Ford slash ETSI.
If you ever get a message from the shell stating that no such file or directory exists, believe it,
Linux isn't going to lie to you when you execute CD without any arguments.
It takes you back to your home directory and we can confirm that with CD.
Now that we're back in our home directory, you'll notice a tilde in the prompt and the tilde represents
your home directory.
It's a shortcut for whatever your home directory is.
So when I'm logged in here as the admin user, tilde represents forward slash home forward slash admin
user.
Now, if I were to log in as the JSON user, for example, Tilde in that case would be forward slash
home forward slash JSON.
Let's go back to the ETSI directory for a minute.
Now let's use the RLS command to see what is in this directory.
There are so many files in the ETSI directory that they scroll off the top of our screen.
Also in this example, the output is color coded.
Now, this may not always be the case, but it is a common thing to see on Linux distributions.
We can use LHS space dash L to display a long listing with more detailed information about these files.
Now you see more detailed information about each file and directory in the ETSI directory.
In a later lesson, we'll cover what all this information means, including the cryptic looking letters
that start each line.
Now, I happen to know that there is a file named Shells in the ETSI directory.
And let me prove that to you by running LHS Dash L shells to see the contents of a file, use the CAT
command.
So let's run this cat shells.
This file contains a few lines of text.
By the way, the contents of this file represent the valid shells that can be used on this system.
This really isn't important to know at this point.
I just simply picked a file to demonstrate the cat command with Use the man command to learn more information
about how to use a particular command.
Type the word man followed by a space and then the command you want to know more about.
Here's how to learn more about the LZ Command.
Now that we have manned space in the command, which is LZ will hit enter.
Anything you need to know about the LZ command can be found here in order to display the next page of
information.
Simply hit the spacebar.
When you're done looking at the man page type cue to quit man, the clear command clears the screen.
So let's demonstrate that now, in order to quit or exit your session, type the word exit.
In this lesson you learned about the command, which displays what directory you're currently in, you
also learned how to change directories with the CD command.
From there, you learned how to display the contents of a directory with the LZ command.
Next, you learn that you can use the CAT command to display the contents of a given file.
You also learned how to get help on a command by using the man command.
Once you've cluttered up your screen with all these new commands, you're learning.
You can clear that screen with a clear command.
Finally, you learned how to quit your command line session with the exit command.


=== Summary ===


--- Getting Help at the Command Line ---

In today's lesson,
we're going to talk about
how to navigate man pages,
what the '$path' environment
variable is used for,
what the 'which' command does,
how to ask commands for help,
and how to search for man pages.
When using the man command,
there are a few key combinations
that you should be aware of.
Enter - moves down one line,
so return or enter, you see the page
just moving down by one line.
If you want to move down an entire screen
or page at a time, hit the space bar.
If you want to go to the top of the page,
type lowercase 'g',
and to move to the very bottom,
capital 'G'.
Shift+g
And to quit, you simply type 'q'.
Environment variables store information.
Their stores locations
that are a named value pair.
And they're typically uppercase.
All the letters in the
variable are uppercase.
And you can see the
contents of the variable
by using the 'echo $variable_name' command.
We're going to greater detail about
environment variables in a later lesson.
However the environment variable that
we are most interested in today is 'path'.
Path is an environment variable.
It controls the command search path.
It contains a list of directories
that are separated by a colon.
What I mean by it controls
the command search path is that,
when you type in the command at the prompt
and press enter,
that command will be searched for
in the directories
that are listed in your
path environment variable.
In this example, /usr/local/bin
will be searched first.
If the command is found there
it will be executed.
If it's not found, then
/bin will be searched.
And this process goes on and on
until either the command
is found in your path,
or if it doesn't match your request,
then you'll be politely told
that it can't be found.
If you want to know
the location or the full path
to the command that you're executing,
use the 'which' command.
For instance, you could type 'which cat'.
Now if there were multiple
programs named cat,
then the one that gets executed
depends on your search path.
If cat is in /bin, and
also in /usr/local/bin,
whichever directory occurs
first in your path
will be that cat command
that gets executed.
Here's an example of using
'which' with a 'tac' command.
Tac is cat spelled backwards,
so can you guess what tac does?
That's right, it displays a
file's contents in reverse order.
Putting this all together
you can start looking
at what is in each
directory in your path.
And use the man command
to discover what each and
everyone of those programs does.
In theory, you could teach yourself
how to use Linux this way.
However, it would be long, tedious process
and not very efficient.
Knowing about the path environment variable
gives you an idea of where commands
are located on the Linux system.
If you have an idea of something
that you want to do,
but you're not exactly sure
how to go about it
or which commands to use,
you could start by looking in your path,
looking those directories and see if
anyone of those commands
may help you out.
And then you can get more details
on exactly how to use that command
with the man command.
Many commands will provide hints for
how to use them at the command line.
Some commands will accept the '--h' flag
and others will accept '-h'.
And some will refuse to
give you any help at all.
In that case, you would
use the man command.
'ls' will provide some information
at the command line
when you specify '--help'.
You can get help from 'gzip'
by using '-h' or '--help'.
If you're not sure which command to use,
you can search the man pages
with 'man -k your_search_term'.
From there, you can read
the man page for the command
or ask for help with '-h' or '--help'.
In this example if we search for calendar,
we see a couple of programs
and we can just type man
and those program aims
to determine which one does
what we want to do.
In summary, man is the command
you can use to display the documentation
that is built into the Linux system.
The path environment variable
controls your search path.
You can determine which
command gets executed.
You can learn the full path to a command
with the 'which' command
by typing which and the command
you're interested in.
For example 'which ls'.
You can ask commands for help
by using '--help' or '-h'.
And if you want to search man pages,
use 'man-k'.
Here are some suggested next steps.
Log onto your Linux system.
Take a look at your path
environment variable.
Go through each one of those directories
and perform an 'ls' on it.
For example your path may contain
/bin/command/usr/bin,
so you could type 'ls /bin'
or 'ls /usr/bin'.
You could also change directory
to those directories
and then perform an 'ls' there.
For example, you can type 'cd/bin'
and hit enter
and then you're in the bin directory
and you can simply type 'ls'.
From there, pick some commands
that look interesting to you
and run man against them.
Additionally pick a few commands
and try using '--help' and '-h' on them.


=== Course Slides ===


--- Working with Directories ---

In today's lesson,
we're going to talk about
some shorthand ways to access directories,
how to execute
commands that may live
outside of your path
environment variable,
and how to create and remove directories.
Directories are just containers for
other files and directories.
In a previous lesson we've
already covered how directories
provide a tree-like structure
for the file system.
Directories can be accessed by their name,
a full path or a couple of short cuts
that we're going to go over next.
When working on Linux systems,
a period is often referred to as 'dir'.
This is no different than 'Google_dot_com'
instead of Google_period_com.
So in Linux, a single dot
represents this directory,
the current directory.
Two dots represent the parent directory.
You can think of the parent directory
as being the directory above
your current directory.
The 'cd' command provides
a short cut as well.
If you type in 'cd -', enter,
then you'll be placed into
your previous directory.
The directory separator in Linux
is the forward slash.
So you can think of
directories as ending in '/'.
And often this is understood.
For example if you, 'cd'
into '/home/Jason',
that's the same thing as running
'cd/home/Jason/'.
Using directory shortcuts
can make navigation easier,
so let's look at a couple examples.
pwd shows our present working directory.
You can type in the name
of a directory to change to it.
It shows that we are in that directory.
'cd..' is go to the parent directory.
So in that again, 'cd..',
that takes us to '/home'.
And you can end directories with a slash,
so 'cd jason' is the same as 'cd jason/'.
See what happens when
we type 'cd space dot'.
So the dot didn't take a 'cd'
because dot represents this directory.
Let's do this one more time, 'cd..'
takes us to the directory above.
And we can also specify a full path.
For instance, 'cd/home/jason',
or 'cd/home/jason/'.
Let's change to another directory,
'cd/var/temp'.
'OldPWD', this environment variable
holds the directory that
you were previously in.
So if we look at that,
it shows us that
we were previously
in '/home/jason'.
So if 'cd -', that takes
back to '/home/jason'.
We've previously talked about
how the environment variable of path
determines your command search path.
You can specify a command
with the full path.
You can execute commands
that are not in your path.
And if you want to execute a command
in the current directory you're in,
you type './command'.
So our path environment variable determines
where your shell will look for commands.
So 'which' tells us that
if we just ran 'cat',
that it would run 'bin/cat'.
And we can also specify
the full path of that
'/bin/cat'
And we get the same result.
However if we want to run a different cat,
then we could do something like this.
Again, that cat will not be executed
because '/home/jason/my-cat' is not in
the path environment,
it's not in my command search path.
Then change directory into 'my-cat'.
So we can remember that
'dot' is this directory,
'slash' is a directory separator.
And this is the name of the program.
And it executes.
So if you want to execute something
in your current directory,
just remember - './the_name'.
If you want to create a directory,
you can use the 'mkdir' command.
Now '-p' is in brackets
and when I place something in brackets
that means that it's optional.
So make directory requires that you
give it a directory name to create.
However, '-p' is optional.
So 'mkdir new_dir' will
create a new directory,
named 'newdir'.
'-p' stands for parents.
So if we want to create
a directory structure
that is more than just one directory deep,
we need to specify '-p'
so that it will create
the parent directories.
For example we could use,
'mkdir -p 1/2/3.'
That would create 3 directories
with one command.
1, that's one directory,
1/2 - that is your second depth,
your second directory,
1/2/3 - your third directory.
When you want to remove a directory,
use the 'rmdir' command.
The 'rmdir' command only
removes directories
that are empty, that have no file contents.
So if you have a directory that you
want to remove it and all the files,
you need to use
'rm-rf-that_directory_name'.
And that recursively deletes
everything in that directory
and below that directory.
One important thing
to know when you're
working at the command line in Linux,
there is no undo,
there is no trash can
that you can go and
retrieve a file that you've deleted.
When you delete something, it's gone.
When you recursively delete something,
all of those files and directories
that you recursively deleted, are gone.
You can't get them back.
So just be careful
when you're using 'rm-rf'.
Let's create a directory.
Let's try this again.
We can see that make dir command
will not create the third directory
because its parent,
dir2 does not yet exist.
So if we want 'mkdir', to do this,
we'll need to specify '-p' for parents.
So that will create the 'dir2' directory.
And that worked.
Again the 'rmdir' command only
removes empty directories,
so dir1 contains dir2 and 3.
If we want to recursively remove them,
we can use 'rm-rf dir1'.
And now that will delete dir1,
and if there were any
files in that directory,
they would be gone.
In this case, there's only
one directory there.
So dir2 will be gone
and then all the files and
directories that are in there.
Again, this deletes everything recursively.
So anything at dir1 and below will be gone,
and you can't get it back.
Today we've talked about
some directory shortcuts,
how 'dot' represents this directory
and 'dot dot' represents
the parent directory,
how 'cd -' will take you to the
previous directory that you were in.
We talked about how to execute commands
that may not live in your search path.
You can use a full path
or you can use './' and the
name of the command
to run the command that is in
the current directory that you're in.
We also talked about how to create
and remove directories.
Practice navigating
with directory shortcuts
like 'cd ..' to take you
to the parent directory
and 'cd -' to take you back to the directory
that you were previously in.
Also execute some commands with full paths
like '/bin/cat' to execute cat.
Also work on creating
and removing directories
and using 'rm-rf' to recursively
remove directories.


=== Bonus Section ===


--- Listing Files and Understanding LS Output ---

1
In today's lesson, we'll be talking about the components of the long listing format of LS.
2
We'll talk about hidden files and directories.
3
We're going to list files by type and sort them by time.
4
And we're going to talk about handling spaces in file names and directory names.
5
And also, we're going to talk about what symbolic links are.
6
Here is some sample output from LS used with the "-L option".
7
If you just want to see what files or directories exist, you can run LS without any options.
8
But if you want to see detailed information, use LS space dash L.
9
The first bit of information that is displayed is a series of characters which represent
10
the file's permissions.
11
We won't go into detail what every character in that string means, but we'll be covering
12
that in a later lesson.
13
So the first group of characters is the permissions.
14
The second bit of information is the number of links to that file or directory.
15
Next we see who the owner of that file is and what group that file belongs to, the size
16
of that file, and the last time that file or directory was modified.
17
And of course, at the very end is the name of the file or directory itself.
18
Files or directories that begin with a period or a dot are considered hidden files.
19
So if you run LS, it will not display hidden files by default.
20
In order to see hidden files, you need to use the "-A option to LS".
21
If we want to see a long listing output that includes hidden files, we could run LS space
22
dash L space dash A.
23
There's also kind of a shortcut for this.
24
You can just include one hyphen and then follow it by all the options that you need.
25
For instance, LS space dash LA is the same as LS space dash L space dash A.
26
Let's run LS in this directory.
27
Notice that there are no files that begin with dot.
28
So if we want to see if there are any hidden files, we can run LS with the "-A option".
29
And now we see a few more files that show up.
30
.bashhistory, .bashrc.
31
We've already talked about dot, which means this directory, and dot dot, which is the
32
parent directory.
33
If we run an LS dash L, again by default hidden files are not displayed.
34
You can run dash L for a long listing and dash A for all files.
35
And now we see the dot files or the hidden files.
36
It doesn't matter which order that we specify these command line arguments as.
37
I mean, dash A dash L does the same thing as dash L dash A.
38
And then also know that you can combine the arguments with LS space dash L for long listing
39
and A for all files.
40
And again, the order doesn't matter.
41
So we can do LS space dash AL and we get the same output.
42
When you perform an LS by itself, you may or may not know what is a file and what is a directory.
43
You can use LS space dash capital F to reveal file types.
44
LS space dash capital F appends a character to a file or directory name that tells you what it is.
45
So if it ends in slash or forward slash, then it's a directory.
46
If it ends in an at sign, it's a link.
47
A star or an asterisk means that it's executable.
48
You can think of a symbolic link as a pointer.
49
It looks like a file or a directory, but it just points to where the actual file or directory is.
50
And you would operate on the symbolic link, or symlink for short, the same as if it were
51
the file that it's pointing to.
52
Symlinks are often used to create shortcuts to long file names or long directory paths.
53
Another common use of symlinks is to indicate the current version of an application.
54
Let's change into this directory.
55
When we perform an LS, we don't know if current is a link, if it's a directory, if it's a
56
regular file, or an executable file.
57
We can get this information by running LS dash capital F.
58
And we see that current is a link.
59
The two myapps are directories and readme is a regular file.
60
And we can confirm by running LS dash L capital F for a long listing format.
61
And we see current points to my-app-2.4.7.
62
Here we see a program.
63
It's an executable because it ends in an asterisk or a star.
64
And we can execute this by doing dot slash m-y-a-p-p.
65
If you want to list files sorted by time, use LS space dash T.
66
Use the dash R option to reverse the order.
67
And a common command that I like to use is LS space dash L-A-T-R.
68
This provides a long listing that includes all files sorted by time in reverse.
69
Let's look at this directory with an LS dash L.
70
It sorts the files and directories by name.
71
If we want to reverse this, we can use long listing and R for reverse.
72
Now we'll see it's sorted in reverse.
73
Videos comes first as where with LS dash L videos was last.
74
Let's do a long listing including all files sorted by time.
75
And we see bash history is at the top.
76
It's the most recently modified file.
77
If we do LS dash L-A-T-R, that will reverse this output.
78
And we'll see the most recently modified files at the bottom.
79
And this can help if you have a long list of files and they can scroll off the screen.
80
So you'll get the most recent files displaying on your screen.
81
To list directory contents recursively, use LS space dash capital R.
82
This will display all the contents of the current directory and any subdirectories below that.
83
The tree command is a similar thing to LS space dash capital R, but it's more of a visual output.
84
You can give tree a dash D option and that will only list directories.
85
If you use a dash capital C, that will colorize the output.
86
Tree is on a lot of Linux distributions.
87
It may not be installed by default, so you may or may not have access to this command.
88
Like the tree command, LS has a dash D option that only lists directory names and not their contents.
89
By default, when you run LS space directory name, LS will provide the contents of that directory.
90
You can also tell LS to colorize output by using LS space dash dash color.
91
This is just another option to distinguish file types.
92
You can do LS space dash capital F or LS space dash dash color or even combine the two.
93
If we want to display recursive output, we can use LS space dash capital R. And a lot
94
of the information has scrolled past the screen, but that's okay.
95
The tree command is something similar.
96
It displays things in a visual output and you see files and directories in this example.
97
If you only want to look at the directory structure, you can use tree with the dash D option.
98
And if you want to colorize the output, you can use tree dash C or capital C. Then you
99
could even combine the two.
100
If we run LS against a directory, such as music, you can see that it displays the contents
101
of music, which in this case is jazz.
102
If we only want to look at the directory itself, we can use LS dash D. That may not make much
103
sense in this case, so maybe let's use LS dash L music.
104
And you see a long listing inside of music, which is jazz LS dash LD long listing only
105
show the directory of music.
106
And so now we can see, for instance, the last modification time of the music directory.
107
Can use dash dash color for LS to get color output.
108
And sometimes this is done by default on some Linux distributions.
109
And the color coding here, like in this configuration, blue are directories.
110
And we can confirm this by using dash F.
111
If you want to make your life a little bit easier when working at the command line, do
112
not use spaces and file and directory names.
113
Instead, get in the habit of using maybe a hyphen or a dash where you would use a space
114
or maybe an underscore or even something called camel case where you can capitalize
115
the first letter of each word.
116
Sooner or later you're going to encounter a file name that has a space in it.
117
It may be a file that you didn't create and someone else did.
118
You have no control over that.
119
How you can deal with this is wrapping the file name in quotes, be it single quotes or double quotes.
120
Another thing you can do is escape the space character.
121
To escape something, you precede it with a backslash.
122
In this output, you can see a file named my space notes dot text.
123
If we were to try to run an LS against that, you'll see that LS treats it as two different
124
files, not one file name with a space.
125
So to get around this, we can use quotes.
126
That works using double quotes.
127
Also single quotes will work.
128
What we could have done instead was maybe name the file my dash notes dot text or maybe
129
my underscore notes dot text or even my notes like this or even my notes dot text.
130
In today's lesson, we've talked about some of the more common and useful LS options.
131
We learned about symlinks, talked about hidden files and directories and how they start with
132
a dot, and we talked about a couple of strategies for dealing with spaces and file names.
133
Here are the LS options we covered today.
134
Dash A to list all files.
135
Dash dash color to list files with colorized output.
136
Dash D to show directory names and not directory contents.
137
Dash L for the long listing format.
138
Dash R for reverse order.
139
Dash capital R to list files recursively.
140
And dash T to sort files by time.

--- File and Directory Permissions Explained - Part One ---

0
In today's lesson we'll be talking
about symbolic permissions,
1
numeric permissions,
2
file versus directory permissions,
3
how to change permissions,
4
how to work with groups,
5
and the file creation mask.
6
Here is some output
from an 'ls -l' command.
7
And if you look at the permissions string,
8
the first character will indicate
9
whether it's a regular file
by beginning with a '-',
10
or it will begin with the
'd' if it's a directory,
11
or an 'l' if it's a symbolic link.
12
Other characters that you'll
encounter in the permissions string
13
include - r, w, and x.
14
r, w and x represent the
3 main types of permissions.
15
They are read, which is r,
16
write, which is w,
17
and execute which is x.
18
If you have read permission to a file,
19
that means you can see its contents.
20
For example, you could run
cat against the file
21
and you would see the file's contents.
22
If you have write permissions to a file,
you can modify it.
23
You can change its contents.
24
If you have execute permissions,
you can run that file as a program.
25
Read, write and execute
are fairly self explanatory
26
when they're applied to files.
27
However they have a
slightly different meaning
28
when they're applied to directories.
29
For example, when read permissions
are applied to a directory,
30
that means you can see
the file names in the directory.
31
If you don't have read permissions
to a directory,
32
we'll not be able to see
the directory's contents.
33
The write permission when
applied to directories,
34
allows entries to be modified
within the directory.
35
So you can edit files that
are in the directory.
36
The execute permission
gives you the ability
37
to see metadata about the files
that are in the directory.
38
Read permissions give you
the ability to see filenames,
39
where's the execute permissions
give you the ability to see
40
modification dates and owner
and group information
41
just like you would see in an
'ls -l' long listing output.
42
There are categories of
users that these read,
43
write and execute permissions
can be applied to.
44
These categories are user,
45
group, other and all.
46
And like the permission types,
each one is represented by a single letter.
47
For example, 'u' represents
the user that owns the file.
48
The users that are in the files group
are represented by 'g'.
49
Users that are not the owner
50
or are not in the files group
51
are considered other represented by 'o'.
52
'a' is used to represent all or everybody.
53
Every user on a Linux system belongs to
54
at least one group called
their primary group.
55
However users can belong to many groups.
56
For example, if members of the sales team
57
need access to some of the
same files and directories,
58
they can be placed into the sales group.
59
Run the groups command to see
what groups you are a member of.
60
If you supply another user's ID
61
as an argument to the groups command,
62
you'll see a list of groups
to which that user belongs.
63
You can also use 'id -Gn'
as a synonym for groups.
64
It will give you the same output.
65
In this example, running the groups command
66
shows that I am in the Jason group
67
and the sales group.
68
You can also see that
'id -Gn' returns the
69
same value as the
groups command does.
70
If you run the groups command,
71
followed by another username,
72
you'll see the groups that they are in.
73
For instance, 'pat' is in the finance
and New York groups.
74
The adminuser is only
in the adminuser group.
75
At this point, you finally have
enough background information
76
to start decoding the permission string.
77
We covered that
the first character is the type
78
via a directory, a file or a link.
79
The next 3 characters represent
the permissions available to the user,
80
also known as the owner of the file.
81
The next 3 characters represent
the permissions available
82
to the members of the files group.
83
The final 3 characters represent
the permissions available to all users.
84
With permissions, order has meaning.
85
So permissions will always
be displayed in this order -
86
user, followed by group,
and finally others.
87
Also the permission types of read,
write and execute
88
are always displayed in that order too.
89
So if a particular
permission is not
90
granted, a hyphen
will take its place.
91
Permissions are also known as modes.
92
That's why the command you
used to change permissions
93
is called 'chmod', which is
short for change mode.
94
The format of the chmod command
is 'chmod' mode file.
95
And there are a couple of different ways
96
to specify the mode.
97
One is symbolic notation and
the other is numeric notation.
98
To specify modes or permissions
with symbolic notation,
99
run the chmod command, followed by
user, group, other, or all.
100
And an operator to add,
subtract or set permissions,
101
followed by the permissions itself
- read, write, or execute.
102
You can add, subtract,
or set permissions using
103
user category and permission pairs.
104
So pick a category -
user, group, other, or all.
105
Let's pick group.
106
What we wanted to add,
107
subtract, or set the permission,
108
let's add.
109
chmod read, write or execute,
110
so let's just add the write permission.
111
You can see that an extra 'w'
shows up in the permission string
112
and the appropriate place for group.
113
You can undo this by removing
or subtracting that permission.
114
You can also change more than
just one permission at a time.
115
So you can specify the group have
write and execute permissions.
116
If you want to set different permissions
for different user categories,
117
you can separate the
specifications with a comma.
118
So for instance we can specify
something for the user.
119
Let's add read, write, execute.
120
And for group, let's take away execute.
121
And you can see that
change has taken effect.
122
When you're specifying equal sign,
123
that sets the permission
to exactly what you specify.
124
So, let's say, all is set to read.
125
And we can see now that
the owner or the user,
126
the group and other, are all set
to just read permission.
127
Also if you don't specify permissions
after the equal sign,
128
all the permissions are removed.
129
So let's set the user read, write,
execute group to read, execute.
130
And we'll give no permissions to others.
131
In addition to symbolic mode,
132
octal mode or numeric mode
133
can be used to chmod or set file
and directory permissions.
134
In octal mode permissions
are based in binary.
135
Each permission type is treated as a bit
136
that is either set to off - 0, or on - 1.
137
Again in permissions, order has meaning.
138
So permissions are always in read,
write and execute order.
139
So if r, w and x are all set to off,
the binary representation is 000.
140
If they're all set to on, the binary
representation is 111.
141
If you want to omit the
write permission,
142
the binary representation
would be 101.
143
To get a number that
you can use to chmod
144
to convert the binary
representation
145
into base ten or decimal.
146
So really the shortcut here
is to remember that
147
read=4, write=2, and execute=1.
148
The permissions number is determined
149
by adding up all the values
for each permission type.
150
There are 8 possible values from 0 to 7.
151
Hence the name, octal mode.
152
This graphic lists all 8 possible options.
153
The user categories are always in user,
group and other order.
154
So once you determine the
octal value for each category,
155
you specify them in that order.
156
So for example to get read,
write, execute for user,.
157
read and execute for group,
158
and just read for other
159
would specify 'chmod 754 filename'.
160
Here are the most commonly
used permissions.
161
So 700 ensures that a file can be read,
edited and executed
162
by the owner and no one else on the system
will have access to that file.
163
The 755 permission allows
everyone on the system
164
to execute the file
165
but only the user or the owner
of the file can edit that file.
166
664 allows a group of people
to modify the file
167
and let others read it.
168
And 660 allows a group of people
to modify the file
169
and not let others read it.
170
Mode 644 allows everyone
on the system to read the file
171
but only the user or the owner
of that file can edit that file.
172
If you're ever attempted to use
777 or 666 for permissions,
173
ask yourself if there's
a better way to do that.
174
Because giving 777 permissions
175
gives everyone on the system
full access to that file or directory.
176
For example if a program or
a script is set to 777 permission,
177
then anyone on the system can make
changes to that script or program.
178
Since the execute bit is set for everyone
179
that program can be executed
by anyone on the system.
180
So if malicious code was either
inserted on purpose or by accident,
181
it can cause unnecessary trouble.
182
If multiple people need
write access to a file,
183
consider using groups
and limiting that access
184
to the members of that group.
185
In general, it's good to avoid 777
and 666 permission modes.

--- File and Directory Permissions Explained - Part Two ---

When you create a file, it's group is set to your primary group.
So if you're a member of multiple groups, for example, sales and training group, if sales is your
primary or first group, then when you create a new file, it will be in the sales group.
If you want to change the group of a file, use the C GRP command.
You can see that when I created the cells dot data file that it was put in my primary group, which
is Jason.
I'm also a member of the sales group, so let's change the group to sales for this file.
Now we can see that the group is sales and let's give permission so that other people in the sales group
can edit the file.
There we go.
So instead of keeping files in different people's home directories, maybe you could have a common place
to store these.
So in this system there's a user local sales directory and you can see that the sales group has read,
write and execute permissions for that.
So I'm going to put this shared file.
And that shared location.
Now anyone that is a member of the cells group can edit that file.
Let's look at directory permissions again.
Permissions on a directory can affect the files in that directory.
A common problem is having proper permissions set on a file with in a directory only to have the incorrect
permissions set on the directory itself.
Not having the correct permissions on a directory can prevent the execution of the file.
For example, if you are sure that a file's permission is correct.
Start looking at the directory it's in and then look at that directory, parent directory and work your
way all the way towards the root of the file system.
The permissions are set to seven, five, five on this directory.
And if I look in the directory, I see one file.
And that is an executable file.
And it currently works.
So let's change the directory permissions on my cat.
Two 400.
And now I only have re permission.
I don't have write or execute permission on that directory.
You can see that the only information I get from LZ is the file name that is in that directory because
of the re permission.
Since the permissions are set improperly on the directory, I can't even execute the file that's in
that directory.
Let's change the permissions to give me execute permissions on that directory.
And now we see that it works.
And you can also see that lz ll works.
The file creation mask is what determines the permissions of file will receive when it's created.
If no mask were used, then the default permissions would be seven, seven, seven four directories
and 6664 files.
The file creation mask is typically set by system administrators to some sane default.
However, it can be overridden on a per user basis by using the U-mask command.
The UMass command sets the file creation mask to the mode that you pass to it.
If you use a capital S, that means mask will display and accept symbolic notation.
The mode supplied u-mask works in the opposite way as the mode given to command.
So when you give command seven, that's interpreted to mean, read, write and execute permission or
all permissions.
However, when you supply seven to u-mask, that is interpreted to mean no permission or all permissions
off.
So you can think of Gemade as turning on or adding and giving permissions while u-mask turns off, subtracts
or takes away permissions.
A quick way to estimate what a u-mask mode will do to the default permissions is to subtract the octal
u-mask mode from seven seven, seven in the case of directories and from 666 in the case of files.
For example, let's take a u-mask of 022.
If we subtract that from 777, we are left with a default file creation mode of 7554 directories and
666 -0 two two is 644.
So for files, the default file creation mode is six, four four.
If we use a u-mask of 002, then we'll have the default permissions for directories of seven, seven,
five and six six for four files.
Using a u-mask of 002 is ideal for working with members of your group.
Since the permissions allow members of the group to manipulate those files and directories that you
create.
Again, this method of subtracting these permissions is an estimation.
So here's an example of using a u-mask where this breaks down a little bit.
So U-MASK 007, if you subtract that from seven, seven, seven, you're left with 7704 directory permissions,
which is fine.
However, 666 -0 zero seven would leave you with six six negative one.
So there is no negative one permission.
There's just no permission.
So it breaks down a little bit, but it gives you a good idea of what to expect.
Here are some fairly common u-mask modes 022002077 and 007.
This table contains all the resulting permissions created by each and every one of the eight u-mask
permutations.
If you were to run u-mask without any arguments, it will display the u-mask in four characters instead
of the three that we've been working with.
The three characters we've been working with represent user group and other.
However, there is one other class and this class is considered special modes and these special modes
are set uid, set jid and sticky.
Just know that the special modes are declared by pretending a character to the octal mode that you normally
use with u-mask or mod.
So the important point here is to know that UMass 0022 is exactly the same as UMass 022 or Chema 0644
is the same as Chema 644.
We're not going to cover these special modes in this course, but I wanted you to be aware that, one,
they exist, and two, they're the reason why U-mask is displayed in four characters instead of three.
You can see that our u-mask is set to 0022.
Using a capital S, we can get symbolic mode.
Let's see what the default permissions are.
The Touch command either creates a file if it doesn't exist or it updates the timestamp of of a file.
So we see the directory was created with seven, five, five permissions and the file 644.
Let's set UMass 2007.
Whoops.
And U-mask of 0007 is the same as 007.
And in this case we can see that directories are created with 770 permissions and files are created
with 660 permissions.
Permissions can be represented by symbols or numbers.
The effect permissions have on directories is slightly different than they have on files.
We talked about how to change permissions with a mod command.
We talked about some strategies of working with members of your group.
And finally, we covered the file creation mask and the U-mask command.

--- Finding Files and Directories ---

In this lesson, you'll learn about two commands that can help you find files and directories.
The first command you're going to learn about is the find command.
You supply a path to find and a search expression, and it will return the results that match the path
and expression.
If you don't tell, find where or what to look for.
It returns all the files that are in your current directory and all the subdirectories below that directory
you can give.
Find a search pattern by using the dash name option and find will return all the files and directories
that match that pattern.
If you use a name that tells find to ignore case, if you provide the option to find, it will return
lz l which is a long listing format display of all the files and directories that it finds.
You can search for files by modification time by using the m time option to find.
You can also search for files based on size by using dash size to find files and directories that were
created after another file.
You can give that file to find with dash newer if you want to execute a command against all the results
that find returns, you can use the dash exec option or dash x c.
You then provide the command that you want to run and end the command with an escaped semicolon.
You can escape something on the command line by using a backslash followed by a character.
So here backslash semicolon means that it's an escaped semicolon.
The matching curly braces represent the file or directory that was found by find.
If you run find without any options, it just finds everything in your present working directory and
below.
That's really the same thing as running fine space dot because dot represents your current working directory.
Let's look in user SBN for something named network manager.
Well, that didn't return any results.
So let's do a case.
Insensitive search with a dash.
I name option.
When we use the name option, we can see that there is a file named network manager, but it's in Camel
case.
You'll notice the first letter is capitalized in and the next letter of the next word M is capitalized.
So the lesson here is that when you use the dash name option case is important, but you can ignore
case by using the dash I name option.
Let's look in user bin and find any files that end in V.
By the way, I'm putting this in quotes to keep the shell from interpreting the asterisks character.
This ensures that we are passing the literal characters of asterisk and a V to the find command.
And that's what we want.
And as we can see, there are several commands in user bin that end with the letter V, let's look for
files that are more than ten days old, but less than 90 days old in the user directory.
So you can see we're using the dash m time option for modification time and that command returned many,
many files that fit those specifications.
It's also important to note that you can use multiple options to find at the same time.
So let's find anything under us R that begins with S and then perform an LZ operation on it.
Okay, so those are all the files and directories under slash us R that begin with a lowercase se.
And by using the dash rls option, we see a full long listing output for each one of those items.
Let's find files that are one megabyte or greater in the user directory structure.
So we would use this command.
Let's find all the directories in slash Etsy that are newer than the Etsy password file.
You'll notice a couple of permission denied errors on your screen.
And the reason why I'm seeing that and you're seeing that is because I'm using a normal user account
on this system.
And that account does not have permissions to those directories.
If we were to run this command as root and root has all permissions everywhere all the time, then you
would not get those errors.
Anyway, let's look at the last result returned here.
What's his Etsy?
My dot, CnF dot D.
By the way, if you don't use a RD option when looking at a directory, you won't see the directory
itself.
You'll see the contents of the directory.
So if I had done this list, Shell, ETSI, my CnF dx, we would see the contents inside of the directory,
but we want to see the directory itself.
So we'll use that D option.
Okay, now let's look at the password file.
The time stamp on Etsy password is Feb 13 zero zero colon 56.
So 56 minutes after midnight, if you will.
And the time stamp on Etsy meet CnF dot DD is also February 13th, but it's zero zero colon five seven
so 57 minutes after midnight on February 13th.
So that is in fact newer than the Etsy password file and that's why that result was returned by the
find command.
Let's try another find command.
So this command will find everything in the current directory and it's going to execute the file command
against all the search results that are returned.
So let's go ahead and run this.
By the way, the file command just tells us what kind of file or directory that you passed to it is,
and it's a best guess as to what the file command thinks the contents of that particular file represent.
The locate command is similar to the find command in that you can tell it what to look for and it will
return a list of results that match your search pattern.
Locate is faster than the find command.
The find command looks through the path you give it and evaluates each and every file in directory and
determines if that matches your search pattern or not, and then returns those results.
The locate command, however, works off of an index.
Typically, the index is rebuilt every day instead of evaluating each and every file to see if it matches
the pattern, locate just does a lookup in the index.
What you need to know about this is that the results are not in real time.
There is a lag between the time that the index gets created and the time that you run the locate command.
So if you're looking for a file that was just created a minute or two ago, chances are it's not going
to be in the index.
Your only hope for finding new files is with the fine command that evaluates files and directories in
real time.
By the way, on some systems and some Linux distributions, locate is not installed by default.
So of course in that case you can either install, locate manually or use the find command.
And of course we'll be covering how to install software elsewhere.
In this course, let's use the locate command to find files and directories that have uptime in their
name.
All right.
We get a few different results back.
By the way, the Uptime Command tells us how long the system has been up or how long the system has
been running since it was last rebooted or powered on.
So on this system, I just booted it up 33 minutes ago.
So it's showing an uptime of 33 minutes.
By the way, you don't have to specify a full name.
You can specify a part of a name.
So let's look for the characters.
Uptime so that command returns more results because there are more files on the system that match UPI
then match up time the entire word.
For example, you'll notice that we're now getting matches for files that have uninterruptible in their
name because the characters of UPI are part of that file name.
Let's create a new file.
The Touch Command updates the access and modification times of a file, or if the file does not exist,
it simply creates a new empty file.
In this case, the file didn't exist, so touch created it for us.
So let's run our locate command again.
Okay.
We see files that have the name uptime in them, but our new file was not returned.
That's because this brand new file is not in locates index yet.
Now, let's use the fine command to evaluate all the files in the current directory in real time, and
we'll see that indeed, we can find the file with a fine command, even though we could not find it
with the locate command.
In this lesson you learned about the find and locate commands, find searches for files and directories
in real time, find is very powerful and flexible.
It can be used to find files based on the file.
Name a file type the size modification time and more.
It can also perform actions for each of the files or directories it finds with the dash x e c option.
Use the find command when you need to perform advanced searches or need to find results in real time.
The locate command is faster than find, but the disadvantage is that it's not in real time.
The locate command searches a database of file names rather than searching the file system directly.
The database is typically updated daily so it won't have the most up to date information used to locate
command when you need to quickly locate a file and are not concerned about newly created files.

--- Viewing Files and the Nano Editor ---

In this lesson, we'll look at
different ways to display
the contents of files and
how to use the nano editor.
You can use the 'cat' command to
display the entire contents of a file.
The 'more' command will
allow you to browse
through a file or
page through a file.
The 'less' command is like 'more',
except it has more features.
Less is more!
When using the commands -
more or less,
use the space bar to
advance to the next page,
use the enter key to advance 1 line
and type 'q' to quit viewing the file.
The commands are based on the vi editor
which we'll be covering
later in this lesson.
By default, head and tail
only display 10 lines.
So if you wanted to see the last
15 lines of file for example,
you could use 'tail -15 filename'.
The cat command could be a fine way
to view files that have static content.
However if you're trying to
keep up with changes
that are being made to a
file in real time,
cat is not your choice.
You should use 'tail -f'
followed by the filename.
You would use this to look at
files that change often.
For example, log files.
You may want to start a program
and look at the programs log file
to see exactly what it's doing.
Again in this case, use 'tail -f'
and the file you want to follow.
Let's look at this file with a cat command.
If we run 'head' against that file,
we will see the top 10 lines of that file.
If we only want to see the top 2 lines,
we can run '-2',
And the tail command will display
the last 10 lines in that file.
Let's say we only want to
look at the last line,
we could do 'tail -1'.
And that's the last line of the file.
Let's run 'more' against this file here.
You can see some information,
it's the first page of the file.
If you want to get to the next page,
just hit the space bar,
a space bar again for another page.
If you want to go down just 1 line,
hit the enter key.
So 1 line, another line, another line.
And to quit, you just type 'q'.
The less command is very similar.
Again, spacebar goes down the page,
the enter key - down one line
and 'q' to quit.
Now this file is growing,
so let's take a look at this.
We'll use '-f' with tail
to follow the file.
And as you can see the
file is being written to
and that screen gets updated with
that information as the file grows.
To exit, just type 'crtl+c'.
If you need to edit the file right now
and don't want to spend anytime
learning an obscure editor,
use nano.
Nano is a clone of Pico.
So if for some reason the nano command
isn't available, try Pico.
It's very easy to learn
but it's not as advanced as
some of the other editors
like vi or emacs.
Let's edit this file with nano.
'nano file.txt'.
Soon you start nano you can
see the file's contents
and a list of commands at
the bottom of your screen.
The '^' symbol represents
the control key.
So if we look in the
bottom left hand corner,
we see '^x', which means
'control+x' to exit.
We'll do that now - 'control+x'.
And we are exited out of nano.
Let's go back in.
Editing with nano is pretty easy.
Arrow keys work as you'd expect -
down, right, up, left.
If you want to save a file,
hit 'ctrl+o'.
And hit enter.
Let's make some modifications.
So again, just place your cursor
whereever you want to go
and start typing there.
And 'ctrl+x' to exit
and it says - do you want to
save your changes or not?
In this case, we'll say no.
And go back in again.
And another important thing
to point out is
'ctrl+g' to get help
and this will show you more information
about how to use nano.
There are various commands you can use
to display the contents of files
including cat, head, tail, more and less.
The nano editor may not
be extremely powerful,
but it is easy to use
and you can learn it in a
very short amount of time.

--- Editing Files in Vi ---

In this lesson, we'll be talking about how to use the VI editor.
While Nano is great for simple edits, VI and Emacs have more advanced and powerful features.
There will be a learning curve to using these editors as they're not exactly intuitive.
Learning VI will definitely be harder than, say, learning Nano.
It will require a bit of a time investment to become proficient.
To use the VI editor, simply type VI space and the file name that you want to edit.
You can also use vim space file name.
Vim stands for VI improved.
It's compatible with all the commands found in VI.
However, it has some additional features like syntax highlighting and the ability to edit files over
the network on many Linux distributions when you type VI.
You are actually running VIM or VI improved.
If you want to view a file, but make sure you don't change any of its contents, you can use the view
command.
I'd like to point out that an advantage of using VI is that it's always available on a Linux system.
Another advantage is that once you learn the key mappings for VI, you can apply them to other commands
like man or more or less or view.
Or you can even use VI mode for editing shell commands.
VI has the concept of modes.
You are always working in one of three modes command mode, insert mode or line mode.
When VI starts who are placed into command mode to get back to command mode at any time, simply hit
the escape.
Key letters typed while in command mode are not sent to the file, but they are interpreted as commands.
Command mode allows you to navigate about the file, perform searches, delete text, copy, text and
paste text.
Here are some of the commonly used key bindings for navigation and command mode.
K goes up one line j down h left l right one character to move right one word w b moves back one word
or left one word.
The carrot symbol takes you to the beginning of the line while the dollar symbol takes you to the end
of the line.
This graphic shows how the H, j, k and LCS act as the arrow keys in V in order to insert text in a
file.
Enter viz insert mode.
Do this by pressing lowercase i uppercase i lowercase a or uppercase a lowercase I inserts text at the
current cursor position.
Capital II inserts text at the beginning of the line.
A appends after the cursor position.
Capital a appends to the end of the line to use viz line mode.
Begin a command with colon, for example to write the file or save the file type.
Colon w enter to force the file to be saved.
Type.
Colon w exclamation mark to quit.
Colon.
Q To force quit.
Colon Q exclamation mark.
To save the file and quit or write and quit.
Colon WQ exclamation mark and colon x is the same as WQ.
Line mode can be used for navigation too.
If you want to go to line 15 in the file type colon one five inner to go to the last line of the file
type colon dollar sign.
If you want to see line numbers type colon set space in u and to turn off line numbering.
Colon set space?
No.
And you to get help.
Type colon help.
And the command that you're interested in.
Again, the modes in VI are command mode, which you can enter by hitting the escape key.
Insert mode by using ie or a and line mode by beginning commands with a colon character.
You can repeat commands in VI by preceding them with a number.
For instance, if you would like to move the cursor up five lines, simply type five K.
If you'd like to insert a piece of text 80 times Type 80 II and start entering the text.
Once you are done, you hit the escape key to return to command mode and the text you type will be repeated
80 times.
This simple feature alone already makes it much more powerful than the nano editor.
While in command mode, you can use X to delete a character W to delete a word deed, to delete a line
and capital D to delete the remaining text on the line to replace text type R for just one character.
CW To change an entire word.
CC To change an entire line, see dollar sign to change the text from the current position to the end
of the line.
You can also use capital C for that.
The tilde command reverses the case of the character to yank or copy the current line.
Type y y.
To Yank a position.
Type Y and a position character.
For instance, to yank a word type y w.
If you want to repeat this, you could yank three words with y3wp will paste the most recently deleted
or yanked text.
The undo command in VI is U and the redo command is control r to start a forward search type, a forward
slash and a search pattern and hit enter to go to the next match.
Type N to go to the previous match type capital n to start a reverse search, use the question mark
followed by a search pattern and then hit enter.
Let's use VI to edit a file.
You'll notice at the bottom of the screen you see a series of til days.
These represent lines that are beyond the file.
So we start out VI and command mode and we can use the j key to navigate down.
K goes up l to the right.
H to the left.
Carrot symbol goes to the beginning of the line and the dollar sign goes to the end of the line.
If we want to enter insert mode, we can use lowercase I to insert text at the current position.
Scape will take us back to command mode to insert text at the very beginning of the line shift.
I.
For capital i.
To append we'll just use a and then to append to the end of the line is shift a.
To delete some texts, we can use the X to delete a character and if we want to delete a word we can
use D, W and d d will delete a line and a DH capital DH will delete from the current position to the
end of the line to replace texts we can use.
R will replace this.
It can replace an entire word with CW for change word.
Escape to get back to command mode.
CC To change the entire line.
Uh, the tilt day changes the case.
So if it's a lower case, it will become uppercase.
If it's uppercase, it will become lowercase.
To yank a line y.
Y.
To paste p.
To do a forward search type the forward slash.
And then lowercase n to move to the next item and uppercase n to move to the previous item.
Let's do a backward search.
Start with a question mark.
And to write changes to a file we can use w.
Let's enter some more text and to quit we can type Q now that there save changes, it won't let us stop.
So we'll just use Q with an exclamation mark to force our quit.
Let's go back in.
Let's use um let's turn on line numbering was set in you and we can go to line ten by typing colon ten
or line five colon five inner and we'll quit with Q There's also a tutor that's very nice.
You can run, I tutor and follow along and it will take you through some of the commands and features
of VI.
The VI ed is more powerful and advanced than Nano.
However, it's not as intuitive and it can take some time to learn.
One of the unique things about VI is the concept of modes.
You're either in command mode, insert mode or line mode.

--- Editing Files with Emacs ---

In today's lesson, we'll be learning
how to use the emacs editor.
Emacs like vi is a powerful editor.
Some people prefer vi,
others prefer emacs.
My recommendation to you is to experiment
with the emacs editor and the vi editor
and see which one you
feel more comfortable with.
You can't make a bad choice.
To edit a file with emacs,
run emacs and provid it the
filename that you wish to edit.
When you look at the emacs documentation,
you'll see 'c-' character.
This means to hold down the control key
while pressing that character.
For example, 'c-h'
means to hold down the control key
while pressing the 'h' key.
If you see 'c-h t',
that means to hold down the control key
while pressing the 'h' key,
release the control key and
then type the letter 't'.
When you see 'm-' character,
that means to hold down the meta key.
The meta key is the 'alt' key.
You can also substitute the
'esc' key for the 'alt' key.
For example, 'm-f' translates to
holding down the alt key and pressing 'f',
or pressing and releasing 'esc',
followed by the 'f' key.
You may need to use the
'esc' key as the meta key
since 'alt' can sometimes be intercepted
by your terminal program for instance.
If you want to simplify things,
just always use the 'esc' key
for the meta key.
Use 'ctrl-h' to get help.
Type 'ctrl-x' followed by
'ctrl-c' to exit emacs.
'ctrl-x ctrl-s' saves the file,
and 'ctrl-h t' will start
the built-in tutorial.
'ctrl-h k' followed by a
key will describe that key.
You can use this to get help on a
specific key command or key combination.
'ctrl-p' will take you
to the previous line,
while 'ctrl-n' will take you
to the next line.
'ctrl-b' is to go backward one character,
'ctrl-f' is to go forward one character.
'M-f' will move you forward one word
and 'M-b' will take you back one word.
'ctrl-a' will take you to
the beginning of the line,
'ctrl-e' will take you to
the end of a line.
'M-<' will take you to
the beginning of the file
and 'M-' followed by the '>' symbol
will take you to the end of the file.
To delete a character, type 'ctrl-d',
to delete a word, its 'M-d'.
'ctrl-k' will kill the rest
of the current line.
To kill the entire line, just position
the cursor at the beginning of the line
and type 'ctrl-k'.
In vi, yank means to copy,
in emacs, yank means to paste.
So 'ctrl-y' is to yank or paste from
the previously killed text.
To undo, type 'ctrl-x u'
'ctrl-s' will start a forward search.
Type the text you're looking for,
and type 'ctrl-s' again to move
to the next occurrence of that text.
Press enter when you're done searching.
'ctrl-r' starts a reverse search.
Like vi, emacs provides
a way to repeat commands.
For instance to kill 3 lines of text,
type 'ctrl- u 3 ctrl-k'.
Let's edit a file with emacs to file.txt.
To navigate, you can use
'ctrl-n' to go the next line.
And 'ctrl-f' will go forward one character.
'ctrl-p' will go previous line.
'ctrl-b' will go back a character.
To get to the beginning of the line,
type 'ctrl-a',
and to the end, 'ctrl-e'.
And you can just start typing text
wherever your cursor is.
Let's delete a character with 'ctrl-d'.
To delete a word, type 'M-d'.
Can I use 'alt-d'?
Or 'esc-d'.
Let's kill a line of text with 'ctrl-k'.
And I'll move to the bottom of the file
and yank it or paste it in.
Let's start a search.
Let's search for 'the'.
'ctrl-s' will take you
to the next occurrence
and then when you're done,
you can just hit enter.
And if we do a reverse search,
we can do that with 'ctrl-r'.
Let's do the same thing.
'ctrl-r' takes you to the previous one
and when you're done, you can hit enter.
To exit, 'ctrl-x ctrl-c'.
And I'm not going to save my changes.
Let's get back to emacs again.
And we can save the file
with 'ctrl-x ctrl-s'.
Again to exit, 'ctrl-x ctrl-c'.
Emacs is a more powerful editor than nano.
Emacs is also an alternative for vi.
Again some people prefer vi,
others prefer emacs.
I suggest you try them both
and see which you feel comfortable with.
I also suggest that you take the tutorial
by starting emacs and pressing 'ctrl-h t'.

--- Graphical Editors ---

In this lesson we're going to talk about
various graphical editors available
in the Linux operating system.
So far you've learned
about command line editors
that are appropriate to use
when you connect to a server via SSH
or when you're using a
terminal emulator application.
If you're running Linux
as a desktop operating system,
you also have access to graphical editors.
Emacs not only works at the command line,
but it also has a graphical mode as well.
'gedit' is the default text editor
for the Gnome desktop environment.
It's very similar to notepad.
'gvim' is the graphical version of vim.
'kedit' is similar to 'gedit'.
It's the default editor
for the KDE desktop environment.
If you're looking for a
Microsoft Word replacement,
consider AbiWord or LibreOffice.
LibreOffice not only
includes a word processor,
but it's a complete office suite.
It contains a spreadsheet,
a database and presentation software.
If you're looking for a source code editor
to help in computer programming,
look at an editor like Kate.
There are other options available like
Geany, or Gedit or even Sublime Text.
This is the CentOS Linux distribution
with a known desktop environment.
Let's look at the default text editor
for now, which is Gedit.
It's a fairly simple text editor
but it gets the job done.
Open up a file.
Click on save to save.
And we'll go ahead and
close out this program.
Emacs also has a graphical mode.
All the key bindings work like
they do in the command line mode,
but with a graphical
mode, you also
have access to a
menu and a toolbar.
So just like any other text editor,
we can open up a file.
And 'crtl-e' will work to
take us to the end of the line
like we were in command line mode.
Do file and save.
Let's look at the graphical version of vim.
Again the keystrokes that work
on command line version of vi,
also work in the graphical version.
Write to write a file.
I'll even exit with 'q'.
LibreOffice is an office suite.
Let's look at the text editor first.
It's very similar to Microsoft Word.
We'll close out this application.
Let's look at the spreadsheet program.
Calc.
There's also presentation software.
There are a variety of text editors
and word processors for Linux.
Emacs and vi both have
graphical counterparts.
Sometimes you may not have
access to a graphical environment,
for example when you're connecting
to a server over SSH.
In that instance you have
to use a command line editor.
However if you do have access
to the Linux desktop
and graphical environment,
feel free to use a graphical
text editor of your choice.

--- Deleting, Copying, Moving, and Renaming Files ---

This lesson will cover how to delete,
copy, move, rename and compress files.
Eventually you get tired of all the files
you have laying around and
want to delete some of them.
To do that, use the 'rm' command.
'rm filename' is the simplest form
of this command.
If you want to remove a directory
and its contents recursively,
use 'rm -r' and the name of the directory.
If you want a forced removal,
use 'rm-f'.
Search patterns can be used
to delete multiple files at once.
It's a good idea to double check
what you're going to delete
with a 'ls' command before you actually run
an 'rm' command against it.
In this example, you can see that
'rm.*' will not remove 'dot' and 'dot_dot'
which represent this directory
and the parent directory.
To copy files, use the 'cp' command.
If you want to create a copy of a file,
you just run 'cp src_file det_file'.
You can also copy a file or
a series of files to a directory
by using 'cp' and then
listing the file or files
in ending the line with the directory name.
To run cp in interactive mode, use 'cp -i'.
If the destination file exists, cp will
prompt you before it
overwrites the file.
If you use 'cp -r source_directory destination',
'cp' will recursively copy
source directory into the
destination directory.
If the destination directory doesn't exist,
it will create the destination directory
with the contents of the source directory.
Let's copy a file with the 'cp' command.
We'll copy file1 to file2.
And you can see that
there are no differences between the files.
Let's create directory.
Let's copy these files into that directory.
So we can list as many files as we want
and when we end the command
with a directory,
it will copy all those files
that we listed in the directory.
You can see that the
files are in the directory.
If we use 'cp -i',
it's interactive mode
and it will prompt you if the file exists;
the destination file exists,
if we want to overwrite file to.
Let's do a recursive
copy on 'dir' to 'dir2'.
'dir2' doesn't exist.
So cp creates 'dir2'.
And places the contents
of 'dir' into 'dir2'.
If we try to copy 'dir' into 'dir3',
'dir3' does not exist,
we'll see what happens.
And we see that copy skips directories.
Copy will only work on directories
if you give it a '-r' for recursive.
So let's create 'dir3'.
Let's recursively copy
'dir' and 'dir2' into 'dir3'.
You can see that the
two directories are in 'dir3'.
To move or rename files,
use the 'mv' command.
If you were to run 'mv source destination',
'move' will move the source
into the destination.
Otherwise, source will be
renamed destination.
Like 'cp', 'mv' has an interactive mode.
So if you were to run
'mv -i source destination'
and destination existed,
'mv' will ask you if you want to
overwrite the destination.
Let's use the move command
to rename a directory.
You can see that the 'dir'
has been renamed to 'firstdir'.
Let's do the same thing with a file,
rename 'file1' to 'file1.renamed'.
Let's look at how move will handle
moving a file into a directory
'file1.renamed' into 'firstdir'.
You can see that
the file is now in 'firstdir'.
This is the contents of file1,
this is the contents of file2.
If we run 'mv file1 file2',
that will rename file1 to file2.
It will overwrite file2.
And see file1 is gone
because it's been renamed
and over-wrote file2.
If you want to do this
in interactive mode, use '-i'.
In this case it says, 'Hey there's a file that already exist. You want to overwrite it or not'?
You've already used the sort command
a couple of times in this course,
but as a reminder, the sort command
at its most basic level, sorts text
alphabetically that appears in a file.
You can use sort with a '-k' option
and supply a field, so you can sort
by a different field than the first field.
'-r' sorts in reverse order
and '-u' removes duplicate lines
and only provides unique results.
Let's look at the contents
of 'more-secrets'.
If we sort this file,
it will sort on the first column.
You can see that 'p' comes before 's',
which comes before 't', etcetera.
You'll also notice that
there are 2 duplicate lines,
so to remove those, you can run sort
with a '-u' for unique.
And we see that we only get 1 'tags' line.
If we want to reverse the order, '-r'.
And if we want to sort
by the second column,
use the '-u' for unique.
Now you can see - the second field
'a' comes before 'b',
before 'c' and before 'f'.
If you want to bundle a group of files
or directories together
in an archive, use the 'tar' command.
You may want to create a copy
or back up of a group of files.
You may also have several files
that you want to transfer at once
or transfer as a set.
In these situations, 'tar' can help.
You'll notice that tar
does not require a hyphen
to proceed its arguments.
The hyphen or the dash is in brackets.
Traditionally, the hyphen is excluded,
but 'tar' still works with it.
So if you see 'tar cf file.tar',
it's the same as 'tar -cf file.tar'.
Some of the most commonly used tar options
include 'c', to create a tar archive,
'x', to extract files from the archive,
't', to display table of contents,
'v', to be verbose,
'z', to use compression,
and 'f', to specify the file
that you'll be working with.
Let's create a tar archive
of 'tpsreports' directory.
So tar, 'c' for create, 'f'
for the file we want to use,
we'll use 'tps.tar'.
And we'll supply the directory
that we're going to archive.
We can use 't' for a list.
And it shows the directory and 2 files.
So let's move into the temp directory
and extract the archive.
Extract.
'f' for the file, we'll give it file name.
And you can see that we've extracted
the contents into 'tpsreports'.
If you want to get a verbose listing of
what 'tar' is doing you can use 'v' option.
So we could have ran
'tar xvf /home/jason/tps.tar'.
And it will list the files
that it's extracting.
To compress files and save space,
you can use the 'gzip' command.
To uncompress the file, you use 'gunzip'.
And if you want to view
the contents of a zip archive,
you can use 'gzcat' or 'zcat'.
You can use the 'du' command to display
how much disk space is used by a file.
So 'du -k' display sizes in kilobytes,
'du -h' display sizes
in a human readable format.
So if the file is 5 MB, it will say 5 M.
Or 3.7 GB, 3.7 G
Let's use the 'du' command to see
how much space that
this data file is using.
It's using 80 K.
You can compress it with 'gzip'.
When you compress a file with 'gzip',
it compresses it and adds
the '.gz' extension to the filename.
Let's see if that saved us any space.
And it did,
4 K, 80 uncompressed, 76 K compressed.
You can uncompress it with 'gunzip'.
We can see it's back to its original state.
If you want to create a tar archive
that is compressed, you can use
the 'z' option for compression.
What do you see for create 'f'
will name the file 'tps.tgz'
This is a naming convention,
you don't have to name files this way.
Sometimes you'll see it - 'tps.tar.gz',
but 'tgz' is short for 'tar'
that's been compressed with 'gzip'.
We'll compress the 'tpsreports' directory.
And if you want to work
on a compressed file,
you need to use 'z'.
And it lists the files
that are in that archive.
In this lesson, we covered
the 'rm' command to delete files,
'cp' command to copy files,
the 'mv' command to move
and rename files and directories,
'gzip' to compress
and 'tar' to create archives.

--- Wildcards - Part One ---

In this lesson you'll learn
what wildcards are,
when you can use them
and the various types of wildcards.
Finally you get to look over my shoulder
as I run through several examples
of how to use wildcards on
an actual Linux system.
A wildcard is a character or a string
that is used to match file
and directory names.
You can use wildcards to
create search patterns
that when expanded will return
a list of matching files
and directories.
Sometimes wildcards are referred
to as globs or glob patterns.
Globbing is the act of
expanding a wildcard
into the list of matching files
and directories.
Wildcards can be used in conjunction
with most Linux commands.
If a command accepts a file
or directory as an argument,
then you can use a wildcard
in this argument
to specify a file or set of files.
You find yourself using
wildcards with commands
like ls', 'rm', 'cp', 'mv', and others.
Here are the 2 main wildcards.
They are the asterisk and
the question mark.
The asterisk or star as
I like to call it,
matches zero or more characters,
it matches anything.
By itself, it's not really that useful,
but when you combine it with
other parts of file or directory names
that you're looking for,
it becomes powerful.
For example, we could use '*.txt'
to find all the files
that end in '.txt'.
If you wanted to list all the files
that start with the letter 'a',
then use 'a*'.
If you want to find all the files
that start with an 'a' and end in '.txt',
then use 'a*.txt'.
The question mark matches
exactly 1 character.
If you want to find all the files
that only have 1 character
preceeding '.txt',
then use '?.txt'.
To match all the 2 letter files
that begin with an 'a',
use the letter 'a' followed by a '?'.
To match all the files that start with 'a',
and then are followed by
exactly one more character,
and then end in '.txt',
use 'a?.txt'.
You can use something called
a character class
to create very specific search patterns.
Start with the left bracket,
then list one or more characters
you want to match
and then end with the right bracket.
For example, if you wanted to match
a one character long file name
that was a vowel,
you would use [aeiou].
If you wanted to match files
that start with 'ca'
followed by either an 'n' or a 't',
followed by zero or more characters,
then use 'ca[nt]*'.
This pattern will match files named,
can, cat, candy and catch.
If you want to exclude
characters in a match,
use an exclamation mark.
For example, if you
wanted to find all the files
that do not start with the vowel,
use '[!aeiou]*'.
'baseball' and 'cricket' match this pattern
because the first character is not an
'a', 'e', 'i', 'o', or a 'u'.
When using character classes,
you can create a range by separating
two characters with a hyphen.
If you want to match all the
characters from 'a' to 'g',
use '[a-g]'.
If you want to match the numbers
- 3, 4, 5 and 6,
use '[3-6]'.
Instead of creating your own ranges,
you can use predefined named
character classes.
These named character classes represent
the most commonly used ranges.
Alpha matches alphabetic letters.
This means it matches both -
lower and upper case letters.
'alnum' or alnum matches
alphanumeric characters.
This means it matches alpha and digits.
Said another way, it matches any
uppercase or lowercase letters
or any decimal digits.
'digit' represents the numbers
and decimal from 0 to 9.
'lower' matches any lowercase letters.
'space' matches wide space,
this means characters such as spaces,
tabs and newline characters.
'upper' only matches uppercase letters.
What if you want to match one
of the wildcard characters?
Then you would escape
that character with a '\'.
To escape the wildcard, simply place
the '\' before the wildcard character.
If you wanna make your life easier,
don't name your files with
question marks and asterisks.
However you may end up receiving a
file with these characters in them,
so you need to know
how to handle them.
For example, if you wanted
to match all the files
that end with a question mark,
then use '*\?'.
An example match would be
a file named, 'done?'.

--- Wildcards - Part Two ---

Let's do an 'ls'
to get our bearings
and see what files and directories
we're working with.
Let's use the asterisk or star and
match all the files that end in '.txt'.
'ls *.txt'.
What just happened is the shell
performed a globular operation
to expand '*.txt' and it passed
those results to the 'ls' command.
In this example running 'ls *.txt'
is the same as running 'ls ab.txt a.txt b.txt'
and 'songs.txt'.
Of course you can clearly see it's easier
to use a pattern like *.txt'
than it is to type out
all the files by hand.
I just wanted to be clear about
what is happening when you use wildcards.
Now let's look at all the files
that start with the letter 'a'.
How would you do that?
That's right, type in - 'ls a*'.
Now let's find all the files
that start with an 'a'
and end in '.txt'.
We can do that by typing
in 'ls a*.txt'.
Can you see a way that we can make
the wildcard even simpler?
How about this?
'ls a*t'.
And that gives us the same results.
Let me clear the screen here
and you see that our bearings look at
what we're working with.
Now let's use the question mark wildcard.
Let's match all the files that are
exactly one character in length.
Wé'll do that by running 'ls?'.
If you want to display all the files
that are two characters in length,
then just use 2 question marks.
Each question mark represents
a single character.
So do '??'
and we'll see that all the two character
files and directories are returned,
in this case they're just files.
Let's list all the files
that start with an 'a',
can contain exactly one character,
and end in '.txt'.
To do that, we'll run 'ls a'
followed by question mark
which represents exactly one character
and then '.txt'.
Let's check out the difference between
the question mark and star.
Let's run 'la a *.txt'.
The star matches zero or more characters,
so running 'ls a*.txt' matches
the file named 'a.txt'.
Before we continue,
I want to point out that
you can use the same flags and options
as you normally do with the command
while you're using wildcards.
Let's get a long listing of all the files
that start with the letter 'a'.
So, just like we normally would use
with 'ls' to get a long listing,
we'll use 'ls -l'
and then we'll use 'a*' to get
every file and directory
that began with the letter 'a'.
Let me clear the screen again here.
Here's an example of using
a character class.
Let's match all the files that
start with the letter 'c',
then contain a vowel, and end in 't'.
To do this, we'll run an 'ls c'
and then any other characters,
or excuse me,
all the characters we want to
match with a, e, i, o, u.
And then 't'.
And I want to point out too
that it doesn't matter
what order the characters
appear in the bracket.
So we can use e, i, o, a, u,
and we'll get the same results.
And still another one here.
Still get the same results.
Let's use a range.
This range will match all the files
that start with an a, b, c, or d.
To do that, we'll do 'ls a-d' to
represent 'a' through 'd' and then '*'.
Here's an example of using
a named character class.
This command will return a list
of files that end in a digit.
I've simply been using an
'ls' command to demonstrate
how to match files using wildcards.
But let's do a little bit of
actual work with wildcards.
Let's clear screen and run 'ls'
again to see what's in our directory.
Let's move all of the text files
into the directory named 'notes'.
To do this we can use the
'mv' command to move.
And then we'll use '*.txt'
to match all the text files.
And we'll end with the directory name,
which is 'notes'.
And let's see if that worked.
Okay I'm not seeing any other files
that end in '.txt'.
Let's look in the notes directory
and see if they're there.
And indeed they are.
Let's move all of the mp3 files
into the music directory.
We can do this in a couple
of different ways.
One way would be to run 'mv *.mp3'
and specify the songs directory.
We can also use '*3' since that would match
and we can even use a character class like
'*' and then 'digit'.
I'll go ahead and just use
'mv *.mp3' to perform the match.
Let's look inside the music directory
and we can see that the 2 mp3 files
that match or start at mp3,
extension are moved
into the music directory.
Let's use wildcards to delete some files.
Here's a good pattern to follow.
Test your wildcard pattern
with the 'ls' command
before you use that pattern
with the 'rm' command.
It's where you can hopefully
avoid deleting any files
that you do not intend to remove.
Let's remove all the files
that are 2 characters in length.
We'll check our wildcard pattern here
to make sure it returns what we want to do
and it looks like it does,
so we'll go ahead and run 'rm'
using that same expression.
And now the files that match
that pattern are gone.
Today you learned how to use wildcards,
you learned that the '*' matches
zero or more characters.
You also learned that the '?'
matches exactly one of any character.
You've learned about character classes
and how you can match any character
that is included between the brackets.
You were taught about ranges
and how you can create
your own custom ranges
by starting with the character,
following it by a hyphen
and then ending it with
another character.
Finally, you've learned about
the various named character classes
and how they can be used to match
common sets of characters
such as digits, uppercase letters
and lowercase letters.

--- Input, Output, and Redirection ---

In this lesson, we'll be talking about the different types of IO input and output and how to redirect
that IO.
There are three default types of input and output.
They are standard input, standard output and standard error.
By default, standard input comes from the keyboard and standard output and standard error are displayed
to the screen.
Each one of these IO types is given a file descriptor.
File descriptors are just numbers that represent open files.
For us humans, it's easier to reference files by name, but it's easier for computers to reference
them by number.
You might be thinking my keyboard isn't a file, nor is my screen.
On one level that's true, but on another level it's not.
Linux represents practically everything as a file.
This abstraction allows you to do some powerful things, like take the standard output of one command
that would normally be displayed to your screen and use it as the input to another command or even redirect
that output to a file.
Use the greater than sign to redirect output and the less than sign to redirect input.
The greater than sign redirects output from a command to a file, while the less than sign redirects
input from a file to a command.
The explicit way of using redirection is to provide a file descriptor number.
However, if one is omitted, then the file descriptor zero is assumed for input and one for output
redirection.
When you use two greater than signs, the redirected output will append to the file.
Normally with redirection of file follows the redirection operator.
If you want to use a file descriptor instead of a file name, use the ampersand symbol.
So instead of redirecting standard error to a file with two greater than output error, for instance,
you could redirect it to standard output with two greater than ampersand one.
This effectively combines standard error and standard output.
If you want to ignore output, you can send it to the null device which is dev null.
The null device is a special file that throws away whatever is fed to it.
You may hear people refer to this as a bitbucket.
If you don't want to see errors on your screen and you don't want to save them to a file, you can redirect
them to dev null, for instance.
Let's look at the output of the SQL command.
Let's redirect that standard output to a file.
Use the greater than symbol and follow it with a file name.
So use files, not text.
So if we look at the contents of files text, we'll see that it has the output of LZ, Dash, L.
You can append to an existing file with two greater than symbols.
So let's take the standard output of LRS and append it to files text.
I can see that this is the ll's output from earlier.
And then at the bottom is just the LSL output.
Input redirection works like this.
Let's take files, text and redirect the contents into sort.
And you see that sort was run on the command.
This is really equivalent to sort files text.
But this is another way to do it.
File descriptor.
One is assumed for output redirection, while file descriptor two is assumed for error redirection.
So this is the same list.
L two files.
Text is the same as LZ.
L one The file descriptor number two files text.
However, make sure you don't leave a space if you're going to use this.
Input and output redirection can be combined.
So let's use files text as the input for sort command and let's redirect that output to sorted files.
Text.
And you can see that that worked.
When a program encounters an error, it reports its findings on standard error.
File descriptor one is for standard output, while two is for standard error.
File descriptor one is the default descriptor for output redirection.
So this can mean that not all of the output generated by a program is captured by default.
Let's look at this example.
You can see that this Ellis command found files text, but it also had an error.
The file not here was not there.
Let's run the same command again.
So in this situation, file descriptor one standard out was redirected to the file called out.
Standard error was not redirected, so it was displayed to our screen.
See that standard out did go to out.
Let's redirect standard error into output.
E r So standard output came to our screen.
Standard error went to this file.
This can actually be handy because you can send standard output one place and standard error to another.
So let's do that.
That's standard out and this is standard error and you could use that for an error log, for instance,
you can also combine standard output and standard error.
Let's do that.
Redirect output to output, both take standard error and append it to standard output.
So both the error message, no such file, a directory and the standard output of files that text ended
up in alt dot both.
Let's use the null device.
If you want to ignore errors, you can send the errors to dev null
or send standard output two dev null and then now you just get the error message or you can do both.
Direct output to dev null.
Append standard error to standard output.
This lesson covered standard input, standard output and standard error.
The default file descriptor for standard input is zero, while standard out is one and standard error
is two.
You can redirect input and output with greater than and less than symbols.
If you want to use redirection in conjunction with file descriptors, use an ampersand you can redirect
output to dev null to prevent output from being displayed to your screen or written to a file.

--- Comparing Files ---

This lesson will cover how to
compare the contents of files.
If you want to compare two files
and display the differences,
you can use the 'diff' command,
the 'sdiff' command or 'vimdiff'.
The 'diff' command will
display the differences
between 2 files.
While the 'sdiff' command
will display the differences
with file1 on the left
and file2 on the right.
'vimdiff' will use
the 'vim' editor to
display the differences
between two files.
Here is just the first line of
output produced by 'diff'.
The first number represents line
numbers from the first file,
and the second number represents
line numbers from the second file.
The middle character separating
the line numbers
will either be a 'c'
which represents a change,
'd' which represents a deletion
or an 'a' which represents an addition.
In this example, the 3rd line of
the 1st file is changed or different
than the 3rd line in the 2nd file.
This is an example of an entire
output from the 'diff' command.
The output that follows the
less-than sign belongs to the 1st file.
The text following the greater-than sign
belongs to the 2nd file.
The 3 dashes are just a separator.
In the 'sdiff' output, the
pipe or vertical bar character (|)
means that the text differs
in the files on that line.
You may also see the less-than sign,
which means that the
line only exists in the 1st file.
The greater-than sign means
that line only exists in the 2nd file.
When you run 'vimdiff', both files
will be pulled up in separate windows.
To switch between the windows,
type 'Ctrl-ww'.
To close the current file
in the current window,
type ':q', enter.
If you want to close both files
at once and quit, type ':qa'.
And if you've made some changes
that you don't want to save,
you can type ':qa!', enter.
We'll use the '-n' option for the
cat command to display line numbers.
Let's use the 'diff' command to look at
the differences between those two files.
Notice that the line that
begins with a less-than symbol,
belongs to the 1st file,
while the line with
the greater-than symbol,
belongs to the 2nd file.
You also know the 1st line of
'diff' output says '4c4',
that means the 4th line of the 1st file
is changed or different than
the 4th line of the 2nd file.
Let's use 'sdiff'.
And you can see that it
places the files side by side
and the vertical bar
or the pipe symbol (|)
displays a line that
has a difference.
Let's add a new last line
to this file.
We'll append it.
And we'll run 'sdiff' agin.
And this time you can see
that the less-than sign
represents that there
is a line in the 1st file
that is not in the 2nd file.
Use 'vimdiff'.
You can see that 'vim' is highlighting
the differences between the files.
You can use 'Ctrl-ww'
to move between windows.
And if you wanna close one window, 'q'.
':q' to close the other window.
Let's do that again and we'll close
both of them at the same time.
You can look at the differences
and ':qa', enter to exit 'vdiff'.
In this lesson we covered
the 'diff' command
which displays the differences
between two files.
The 'sdiff' command which
does the same thing except
for it displays the
differences side by side.
And the 'vimdiff' command which
displays differences in the vim editor.

--- Searching in Files and Using Pipes ---

In this lesson we'll be covering
how to search the contents of files,
as well as what pipes are,
and how to use them.
To look for text within a file,
use the 'grep' command.
The typical format of the command is
grep (space) a search pattern (space) the file
that you're searching for the pattern in.
Here are some options that
you can use with the grep command.
'-i' will perform a
case insensitive search.
'-c' will display the number
of occurrences that it finds in a file.
'-n' will perceive the output
with line numbers.
And '-v' will do an invert match.
This returns lines that do not
match the search pattern.
Let's look at the contents of this file.
Try searching this file
with the 'grep' command.
You can see that it'll
return all occurrences
that it finds that match that pattern,
so 'o' is contained in Facebook
and 'o' is also contained in Jason.
So 'grep' returns those 2 lines.
If we want to do an inverse match,
we'll do a '-v'.
Or invert the match.
And it will display all the words
that do not contain the letter 'o'.
You can see that it's matching case.
To ignore case, use '-i'.
So now, it will return the
line with lowercase user.
You can also combine options.
We'll do 'c' for count and ignore case.
And 'grep' says there's only 1 line
that matches user.
And using '-n' will display which
line number that the match occurs on.
There are some clues as to
what a file might contain.
For instance, some files
will have an extension.
If the file ends in '.txt',
chances are it's a text file.
If the file has executable permission set,
it might be an executable program.
An easy way to determine the type of a file
is to run the file command
against that file.
If it's a text file,
it will say that it's text
in the output of the file command.
A binary file is a file that
is in machine readable format
and not a human readable format.
If you run 'grep' against a binary file,
it will simply display whether or not
that information was found in the file
but it will not display the text.
To look at the textual data
within a binary file,
use the strings command.
The vertical bar is called a pipe.
You can change to commands
together with a pipe.
Pipe takes the standard output
from the preceding command
and passes it as the standard input
to the following command.
If the first command displays
error messages,
those will not be passed to the
second command by default.
Error messages are displayed
on standard error.
If you want standard error to be
passed in as input to the command
following the pipe, you can redirect
standard error to standard input.
How to do that was covered
in the I/O redirection lesson.
Here is a common pattern that
you'll see often in Linux.
There are several commands that
allow you to specify a file
on the command line that is
to be used for input.
With 'grep' for example,
you can run 'grep',
followed by the pattern,
then followed by the file to use as input.
If you don't supply a file name,
then the command will use standard input.
'grep' pattern file is the
same as 'cat file | grep pattern'.
That's because 'cat' displays the
contents of the file on standard output.
The pipe takes the standard output
from the 'cat' command
and passes it in as a standard input
to the 'grep' command.
Since no file name was specified
for grep to act on,
it takes standard input as its input.
The 'cut' command allows you to
select portions of a file
or to cut out pieces of a file.
Like grep, if file is omitted,
cut will use standard input.
The '-d' option for cut allows you
to specify a field delimiter.
'-f' tells cut, which field to display.
So let's look for the string
John in this file.
And we can see that grep tells us
two pieces of information
that it does find a string in that file,
and that, that file is a binary file.
File command reports that
it's an audio file
and it doesn't say anything about text,
so it's not a text file.
You can see that there are
a lot of strings
that are just not human readable.
To just display the strings
that are human readable,
we'll use the strings command.
And then we can run our search on this.
Strings giant-steps.
Now we can see the actual data
that the grep command initially found.
The output of the strings command is sent
to the input of the grep command
because we're using a pipe to
change those two together.
Pipes aren't limited to two commands,
you can change as many commands
together as you want.
So let's take the output
that is formed by those two commands
and then pipe it into say,
head-1 to display the first line
of output from grep.
Just going to hit the up arrow key
to repeat that.
Let's use a cut command.
Let's use space as a delimiter.
And let's print the second field.
And that will just give us Coletrane.
Let's say we want to find
all users named Bob
in the etc password file.
etc password file just contains
a list of all the accounts
on the Linux system.
We want to print each account name
and their real name
but no other data.
We want to print them in alphabetical order
by account name
and we want to display them
in a tabular format.
Let's look for Bob in etc/password.
And what we want to do
is print the account name and real name.
However there's other
information in that file.
So we can use the cut command
to get the information we want.
For example it looks like the fields,
fields that are separated by a colon,
so we can use '-d'
and use the colon as a field delimiter.
And the first field in the fifth field
contain the information that we want.
So we'll use '-f1,5'.
And I also want to sort them
in alphabetical order.
So the sort command can take care
of that of course.
And we want to get rid of
the colon character,
so we can use a command called, 'tr'
that translates character.
So we'll translate the colon character
into a space character.
And we want to display this information
in a table format,
so we can use the column command.
and the '-t' for table.
And that gets us the result we desire.
Another common use of pipes
is to control how output is
displayed to your screen.
If a command produces a significant
amount of output it can
scroll off your screen
before you have a chance to view it.
To control the output, use a pager
utility such as more or less.
We've already used these commands
already on files directly,
but keep in mind that they can take
a redirected input as well.
Let's look at etc/password.
And the contents of that file
scroll past our screen.
So we can use the less command
to page through that file.
and 'q' to quit.
So 'cat/etc/password | less'
is really the same as
'less /etc/password'
and that's kind of how we've been
using it up to this point.
However if you do something
like this this,
let's look for 'bin/etc/password'.
That scrolls past our screen.
So we can pipe that tó less.
So this is a situation where you
couldn't use less directly on a file,
however using the standard output
of a previous command as
the standard input
for the less command is helpful.
In this lesson we learned how to
search the contents of files
using the grep command.
How to determine the files type
using the file command.
How to cut out pieces of a file
using the cut command.
How to translate characters
with a 'tr' command.
And how to format output into columns
with the column command.
We also talked about the commands
more and less which are pagers.
The important thing to note here is that
there are many small commands
that do one thing well
and that you can change them together
using pipes to do something
very powerful and useful.

--- Transferring and Copying Files over the Network ---

In this lesson we'll be covering
how to copy files over the network.
You already know how to copy files
from one location to another
on the same system using the 'cp' command.
But if you want to copy files
from your local workstation
to a Linux server
or between Linux servers,
you need to use 'scp' or 'sftp'.
SCP is secure copy and SFTP
is SSH file transfer protocol.
Sometimes SFTP is referred to
as secure file transfer protocol.
SCP and SFTP are both extensions
of the secure shell protocol.
In order to use SCP or SFTP
you need a client.
Mac and Linux come with scp
and sftp command line utilities.
If you are running Windows, you can use the
PuTTY Secure Copy Client - pscp.exe
and the PuTTY Secure File Transfer client -
psftp.exe.
There are graphical clients as well.
Cyberduck is popular for Mac and Windows,
FileZilla runs on Mac, Windows and Linux.
WinSCP is a Windows only
SCP and SFTP client.
If you are looking for a
more interactive experience
where you can examine
the local files and remote files,
use SFTP.
With SCP, you need to know
what files you want to transfer
before issuing the command.
SCP and SFTP aren't the only ways
to transfer files to remote systems.
Sometimes FTP, called file
transfer protocol is enabled.
In such cases you can use the built-in
ftp command line client on Linux and Mac
and a graphical client
like WinSCP for windows.
Just be aware that FTP is not a
secure transfer protocol like SCP and SFTP.
This means that your login credentials
are sent in plain text over the network.
Also, the files that you upload and
download are not encrypted either.
If given the choice between
SCP, SFTP or FTP,
pick SCP or SFTP.
Let's use our SFTP client to
connect to this Linux server.
When you connect to a remote server
you're placed into your home directory.
And 'ls' will show the files
that are in my home directory.
If you perceive those commands
within 'l', that's for local,
so 'lpwd' says that I'm
in the local/temp/test directory.
And 'lls' will show what files are
on the local box in temp/test.
So let's put 'z.txt'. onto the server.
And we'll do an 'ls' and we can see that
'z.txt' shows up on the remote server.
Let's delete it off the remote server.
And let's do an 'ls' with a '-l' for a
long listing and see if it's gone.
And it is.
So we'll clutter SFTP client.
With SCP, you can copy from your
local system to the remote system
but you need to know
the source and destination,
so our source file will be 'z.txt'.
The destination will be 'linuxsvr1'.
Append a colon (:) at the
end of the server name,
followed by a path name.
We could put this file in the
temp directory on the remote server.
Oops, I mis-spelled that!
We could put this file in say,
our home directory.
Tilde is a shortcut for home.
Let's connect through the
Linux server and show that.
We did place the 'z.txt' there
and also in temp.
Let's transfer this file to the
remote server as a different user.
Let's use 'adminuser@linuxsvr'.
And we'll place this in the
admin user's home directory.
Can we use Tilde as a shortcut for home
or we can even specify the full path.
Let's just do that.
And let's connect.
It's the same with SFTP, let's connect
to 'sftp adminuser@linuxsvr'.
And then you can see
that 'z.txt' was transferred.
Let's look at using a
graphical client like FileZilla.
To connect via SFTP,
type 'sftp::' and then the
IP address or server name.
We'll give a username and password
and click quickconnect.
If you're prompted about an SSH key,
go ahead and accept it
and this is a one time thing.
On the left side, you see our
local files on our workstation
and on the right side are
the remote files on the Linux server.
We'll just pick a file to transfer up
to our Linux server.
Let's put it in our desktop folder.
You can drag and drop the
file from local to remote,
also from remote to local.
And you can also do a transfer
by double clicking the file as well.
Let's login to our Linux server
and see if those files got
transferred like we expected.
And we can see that
the file is on the desktop,
double click to open.
Yep and made it.
Let's look at our documents folder
and we can see the file is there as well.
To transfer files over the network,
you need a client.
There are command line clients
like SCP, SFTP and FTP.
You can also use a graphical client
such as Cyberduck, FileZilla or WinSCP.
If you have a choice to use FTP or SFTP,
choose SFTP.

--- Customizing the Shell Prompt ---

This lesson will cover how
to customize your shell prompt.
As you've seen earlier in this course,
default prompts can vary
from system to system.
No matter what shell you're using,
you can customize your prompt
by setting an environment variable.
For shells like Bash, ksh, and sh,
the environment variable 'PS1'
is used to set the primary prompt string.
For shells like Csh, tcsh, and zsh,
they use a prompt environment variable.
The format string you place
in environment variable
determines the look
and feel of your prompt.
Each shell uses slightly
different format string,
so consult the documentation
for the shell that you're using.
Let's look at customizing the bash prompt
since bash is the most
popular default shell
for user accounts on Linux systems.
These are some of the most commonly used
formatting string options for bash.
'/d' will give you the date in the
weekday/month/date format.
'/h' will give you the hostname up
to the first dot or the short hostname.
'H' will give you the fully qualified
domain name of the server.
'/n' will give you a new line,
so you can have a multi line prompt.
'/t' will give you current time
in 24 hour format
while '/T' will give you the current time
in 12 hour format.
'@' will give you the current time in
12 hour format with AM and PM included.
'/A' will give you the current time
in 24 four hour format
just using hours and minutes.
'/u' is the username of the current user.
'/w' is the current working directory.
'/W' will give me the base name
of the current working directory
instead of the full path.
'/$' will let you know
if you're normal user,
it will display a dollar sign,
or if you're the superuser or root account,
it will display a pound sign.
For a complete listing
of all the formatting options,
see the bash man page.
To make your customized shell prompt
persist betweens logins,
add the PS1 value to your
personal initialization files.
Personal initialization files are commonly
referred to as 'dot files'
since they begin with a dot or period.
You can also use nano, vi, or emacs
to edit your '-bash_profile' file.
This example just uses echo
to accomplish the same thing.
Let's look at our current prompt string.
And let's change it in some way,
let's set it to 'username@host'.
And you can see that it's customized now.
Let's add the time to our prompt.
And the working directory too.
And the tilde, you can see
it represents our home directory.
Let's go to 'var/log'.
So you can see that
'var/log' is the current directory.
And let's use basename
directories this time
with a 'W'.
Now you can see that
even though we're in /var/log,
it only says log.
Let's go back to our home directory.
If you want to persist
changes between loggins,
we need to put these
in our personalization files.
So let's edit bash_profile.
Set this environment variable
We'll just set it to this
to show that it's going to work.
Create a username.
The hosts we're on, the directory we're in,
and a '$'.
And now you can see that
the contents retain between loggins.
Let's do one more thing,
let's make a multi line prompt.
I'll put time on one line
and let's put the host and
working directory on the next line.
Clear the screen here
and you can see that
every time that we hit enter,
we get a new prompt with
the current time on one line
and a normal looking prompt
on the second line.
Shell prompts can be customized
by setting an environment variable.
This can differ from shell to shell.
What I showed is PS1,
others use prompt.
To save your custom shell
prompt between loggins,
you need to add that environment
variable setting
to your personal initialization files
such as '.bash_profile'.

--- Shell Aliases ---

This lesson covers creating,
deleting and persisting aliases.
If you find yourself typing the same
command over and over again,
you can create a shortcut
for it called, an alias.
An alias can be thought of
as a text expander.
Creating aliases for commands
that are really long
or that you use often is a common practice.
For example, if you type
'ls -l' frequently,
you may want to abbreviate it to 'll'.
As a matter of fact,
this alias often comes
predefined on many
Linux distributions.
The alias command can list
or create aliases.
If you run alias without any
additional information on the command line,
it displays the list of current
aliases that are set.
If you want to create an alias,
use 'alias' space, the alias name,
equals (=) and the value for that alias.
Aliases don't have to be
used for just shortcuts,
they can be used to fix
common typing errors.
For example if you end up typing 'grpe'
and you mean to type 'grep',
you can create an alias
and whenever you accidentally typed 'grpe',
alias will fix that for you
and spell it 'grep'.
You can also use aliases to make
your work environment similar
to that of another platform.
For instance in windows,
'cls' clears a screen,
but in Linux, the equivalent
command is 'clear'.
You could create the shortcuts
to make you feel more at home.
To remove an alias, type 'unalias'
and the name of the alias.
Or to remove all aliases, use 'unalias -a'.
If you were to create some aliases
and log out and back again,
your aliases would be lost.
To make them persist between sessions,
add them to your dot files
such as '.bash_profile'.
The downside to creating
several aliases is that
when you're on a system
that does not have your aliases,
you might feel lost.
If you want to be able to work effectively
on any Linux system
that you have access to,
keep your alias usage to a minimum.
Another way to handle the situation is
to simply copy your configuration files
to each Linux system
that you're going to work on.
Let's say you run 'ls -l' a lot.
Let's make this an alias, make it shorter.
That's 'alias ll=ls -l'.
So now when you type 'll',
we'll get the same result as 'ls -l'.
Let's say you like to type 'cls' because
you come from a windows background.
'cls' is not available on Linux,
the equivalent command is 'clear'.
You could create an alias
for cls that was clear.
So now you type cls,
it will clear the screen.
To list aliases, just use
the alias command.
To make them persist,
you can edit your 'bash_profile' file.
Let's do this.
Let's add mycls='clear'.
You can see that that's not set.
Let's logout.
And log back in.
And you can see that 'mycls' is set.
The alias command lists and creates aliases
while the unalias command deletes aliases.
To persist your aliases between loggins,
add them to your dot files.

--- Environment Variables ---

1
In this lesson you will learn what Environment variables are, what they do, and how to create and delete them.
2
An environment variable is a storage location that has a name and a value. They often affect the way programs behave.
3
For example, in earlier lessons you learned how to tell various programs about your preferred editor by setting the $EDITOR environment variable.
4
The easiest way to view all the environment variable names and values is to run the printenv command without any arguments.
5
On your screen you can see an example.  Each line contains the environment variable name,
6
followed by an equals sign, and then the value of that environment variable.
7
For example, the environment variable HOSTNAME is web01 since that is the hostname of the system that I was logged into when I ran this command.
8
This is an example of an informational environmental variable.
9
Another example on your screen is the PATH environment variable.  This is an example of where the value of the variable affects how a program behaves.
10
In this case, the shell uses the PATH to determine what paths to look for commands to execute and in what order.
11
If you change the PATH environment variable you change how the shell operates.
12
If you want to look at the value of one specific environment variable you can pass its name as an argument to the printenv command.
13
If you were to run "printenv HOME", then only the value of the HOME environment variable will be displayed.
14
Just like most things in Linux, environment variables are case sensitive.
15
If you were to execute the printenv command followed by home in all lowercase letters, nothing will be returned because there is no environment variable named home in lowercase letters.
16
By the way, environment variables are uppercase by convention.  You can create lowercase environment variables but you will rarely see that.
17
Another way to display the contents of an environment variable is to use the echo command.  With this method you need to prepend a dollar sign to the environment variable name.
18
If you want to look at the contents of the HOME environment variable you can run "echo $HOME".
19
Again, environment variables are case sensitive so trying to echo the value of $home in all lowercase letters will not return a result.
20
When you create an environment variable use the syntax of "export" followed by the environment variable name, followed by an equals sign, and finally the value you want to assign to the variable in quotations.
21
Do NOT use spaces around the equals sign.  If you do use spaces, you'll get an error.
22
Run 'export EDITOR="vi"' to create the EDITOR environment variable and assign it the value of "vi".
23
Some commands look at the EDITOR environment variable to know which editor to start.
24
By the way, if the EDITOR environment variable already existed, this would overwrite its contents.  So this is not only how you create an environment variable, its also how you can update it.
25
Another example is setting the TZ variable.
26
Here, running export TZ="US/Pacific" sets the Time Zone to the US/Pacific time.
27
The date command, for example, will return a different result depending on the value of the TZ variable.
28
Let's say you no longer need or want an environment variable.
29
To remove it from your environment, run the unset command followed by the environment variable name.
30
For example, let's say we want to rely on the default time zone of the system instead of overriding that with the TZ environment variable.
31
So we remove it by running "unset TZ".
32
The act of setting and unsetting environment variables from the command line effects your current session only.
33
If you want to make your settings persist between logins, you'll want to define your environment variables in your personal initializations files, like the .bash_profile file.
34
You use the same syntax as you learned.
35
So if you want to explicitly set your timezone, then you can add an export TZ line in your .bash_profile as shown on the screen.
36
If we want to see what environment variables are configured, we can run the "printenv" command.
37
If there are too many of them and they scroll off of your screen, you can pipe the output to a pager utility like less.
38
Now I know what environment variables are configured in my environment.  If I want to look at the value of just one of the variables, I can use printenv or echo.
39
Let's look at the PATH.
40
printenv PATH
echo $PATH
41
Let's look at the current time with the date command.
42
Now let's set our timezone by changing the TZ environment variable.
43
Let's remove the TZ environment variable and see if our timezone is set back to the default.
44
Now when we run the date command we're back in the US/Eastern timezone because that's the default set on this particular server.
45
Let's say we want to display the time in the "US/Pacific" timezone.  To make this setting persist, we're going to add it to our ~./bash_profile.
46
So I'm going to vi editor because that's my favorite editor.  You can use nano, emacs, or whatever editor you like.
47
$ vi .bash_profile
48
export TZ="US/Pacific"
49
Now I'm going to save my changes.
50
Now if we log out and back in again, that environment variable will be set.
51
Now I'm going to connect back in.
52
Now let's see if the TZ variable is set.
53
Sure enough, it's set to US/Pacific.
54
By the way, you usually tell what environment variables a program uses by looking at it's man page in the ENVIRONMENT section.
55
Let's do that for the date command.
56
If I run "man date" I can look through the man page here.
57
When I get down to the section called ENVIRONMENT I will see it has one environment variable listed, TZ.
58
It says here that it specifies the timezone, unless overridden by command line parameters.
59
So this is how you can tell what impact an environment variable will have on a given application.
60
In this lesson you learned that environment variables are name/value pairs that can effect the behavior of an application.
61
You also learned how to view your environment with the printenv and echo commands.
62
Additionally, you learned how to create or update environment variables using the export syntax.
63
We talked about removing variables from your environment with the unset command.
64
Next you learned how to make environment variables and their values persist between sessions.
65
Finally we talked about how you can find what environment variables a given program uses by looking at it's man page.

--- Processes and Job Control ---

In this lesson we'll be talking about
how to list the running processes
or running programs and commands.
We'll talk about the difference between
foreground and background processes
and how to manipulate those.
We'll also talk about
how to kill processes.
To display the currently running processes,
use the 'ps' command.
If no options are specified,
ps displays the processes associated
with your current session.
To see every process including
ones that are not owned
or running as you,
use ps with the '-e' option.
The '-f' option will give you more
information and a full format listing.
To see processes running
as a specific user,
use 'ps -u username'.
And to display more information
about a specific process,
use its 'pid' or its process
identification number.
'ps -p pid'.
Here are some common ps
commands that you could use.
'ps -e' to display all the processes.
'ps -ef' to give you a full
listing of all the processes.
So a of couple different ways
to display processes
in a tree like output,
'ps -eH' or '-e' with the
'--forest' option.
Again, to display a
specific users' process,
use 'ps -u username'.
There are other ways to view processes
and running commands on a system.
You can use the 'pstree' command,
it displays processes in a tree format.
You can use 'top' which is
in interactive process viewer
or you can use 'htop'.
'htop' is less common in top,
so it may or may not be included
in your Linux distribution.
To see a list of processes
that are associated
with your session, type ps.
And you can see that I
only have two processes -
the bash process, which is my shell
and ps which I ran to
get the list of processes.
If we want to look at a specific process,
we can use '-p'
and supply a 'pid' or our process ID.
So let's look at 1530.
And that will only list
that one specific process.
To get a full listing, we can use a '-f'.
Now it will tell us more information.
You can do a '-e' for all the processes.
And '-ef' for a full listing.
Let's pipe this to less.
You can see the information
that it is displaying.
The user or UID that
the process is running as,
the PID, the process ID.
The PPID, which is the parent process ID.
And you have some more information about
what time it started and commanding.
If you want to get a full process
listing of a specific user,
you can use this command, we'll use me.
Or we could use say, the root user.
Let's look at the super and tree format.
That's another way to do that.
Here's an example of the 'pstree' command.
Let's look at the top command.
It replaces the processes that are using
the most CPU resources
at the top of the list.
And type a question mark for help.
Type 'q' to exit here.
You can also look at
this program called, 'htop'.
It gives you the same information as top,
but just in a slightly different format.
Up until this point all the commands you
have been executing have
been running in the foreground.
When a command, process or program
is running in the foreground,
the shell prompt will not be displayed
until that process exits.
For long running programs
it can be convenient
to send them to the background.
Processes that are backgrounded
still execute and perform their task,
however they do not block you
from entering further commands
at the shell prompt.
To start a process in the background,
place an ampersand (&)
at the end of the command.
To kill the current foreground process,
hold down the control key
and press the letter 'c'.
To suspend the process, type 'ctrl z'.
That will stop the process.
A process that is suspended is
not running in the background,
it is actually stopped.
To send a suspended process
to the background
use the 'bg' command.
You can background a specific job number
by preceding it with a percent sign (%)
for example, '%3'.
If you don't supply a job number,
bg will operate on the current job.
The current job is considered
to be the last job
that was stopped while
it was in the foreground
or the last job that was
started in the background.
To foreground a background
process, type 'fg'.
Like bg, fg will operate on the current job
unless you give it a specific job number.
To kill the job, type the word
'kill' space '%' and the job number.
Kill requires that you give a
job number or a process ID number.
To list your jobs type the jobs command.
There are two ways
to kill a running process.
If the process is running
in the foreground,
simply type 'ctrl c' to kill it.
The other way to kill a process
is with the kill command.
You can run kill by just supplying
the 'pid' or the process ID.
You can also specify a signal
to send to the process.
The default signal used
by kill is termination.
You'll see the signal referred to
as 'sig' term or term for short.
Signals have numbers that
correspond to their names.
The default term signal is number 15,
so running kill 123 is the same
as running 'kill -15 123'.
Or 'kill -term 123'.
If a process does not terminate
when you send the term signal,
use the kill signal which is number 9.
Let's start a program in the background.
To do that, we'll end the command line
with an ampersand (&).
So when a command is run in the background,
2 numbers are displayed.
The number in brackets is the job number.
And that can be referenced by proceeding
it with a percent sign (%).
The second number is the pid.
So if we run 'ps -p',
we'll give it the pid of 2373,
we'll see that long
running process command.
If we type jobs, you'll see that 1
is the job number for number 1,
you can also reference it by %1.
We run the foreground command
to bring this job to the foreground.
And to kill a foreground process
we can type 'ctrl c'.
And that has stopped the process.
So let's start multiple jobs
in the background.
Type the jobs command here.
The plus sign (+) in the jobs output
represents the current job
while the minus sign (-) represents
the previous job.
The current job is considered
to be the last job
that was stopped while
it was in the foreground
or the last job started in the background.
If no information is supplied
to the fg or the bg commands,
then the current job is operated upon.
The current job can be
explicitly referred to
by '%%' or '%+'.
The previous job can be
referred to by '%-'.
For instance we can run jobs.
That line.
This way.
Or to look at the previous job,
run this command.
To bring a job back to the foreground,
we can type fg and a job number.
Let's bring job number 2 to the foreground.
And then from here, we can say kill it.
And will just hit the...
See if that works
and then yes, now we have
jobs number 1, 3, and 4.
Let's bring job number 1 to the foreground.
And we can suspend it by typing 'ctrl z'.
And I put jobs output,
and we can see 1 is stopped.
It's not in the background,
it is actually stopped.
It's not doing any work.
If we want to send it to the background,
type bg and then '%1'.
Now jobs 1, 3 and 4 are
running in the background.
Let's kill the job by job number,
let's kill job 1.
And then you'll notice
that it's terminated.
Let's just foreground on job number 3.
And again, you don't have to supply fg,
you can just simply use the job number.
Let's take a look at the kill command.
Let's do a 'kill -l'
to list all the
signals that we can
send a process.
Again, kill defaults to signal 15,
which is sig term.
And to kill process, you would
want to use 'kill -9'
or 'kill -KILL' for process.
Let's start couple of jobs here.
Let's use 'kill 2394', that's the pid.
See what happens.
Yep that terminated the job.
You can also use...
Let's do a 'kill -9' for 2396.
And sure enough that
killed that job as well.
To display information
about running
processes and programs,
use the ps command.
To see all the processes running
on a system with a full listing,
use 'ps -ef'.
To look at a process for a given user,
use 'ps -u' followed by the account name.
To kill a process that's in
the foreground, type 'ctrl c'.
To suspend a foreground process,
type 'ctrl z'.
To background that process, type bg.
And to foreground a process,
use the fg command.
To display information
about your running jobs,
use the jobs command.
You can use the kill command
to kill jobs by job number
with a percent sign
or you can kill programs
and processes by pid.

--- Scheduling Repeated Jobs with Cron ---

1
This lesson covers the Cron service,
the Crontab or
2
the Crontable format,
as well as the Crontab command.
3
If you need to repeat a tab Ask on
a schedule, you can use the cron service.
4
The cron service is a time based job
scheduling system that starts when
5
the system boots.
6
Every minute the cron service checks
to see if there are any scheduled jobs
7
to run, and if so, it runs them.
8
Cron jobs are often used to automate
a process or perform routine maintenance.
9
You can schedule cron jobs by
using the crontab command.
10
A Crontab or Crontable is
a configuration file that specifies when
11
commands are to be executed by Cron.
12
Each line in a Crontab represents a job
and contains two pieces of information.
13
One, when to run and two, what to run.
14
The time specification
consists of five fields.
15
They are minutes, hour, day of the month,
month and day of the week.
16
After the time specification you
provide the command to be executed.
17
This example Crontab Entry
runs every Monday at 7 am.
18
The command will only be
executed when all of the time
19
specification fields match
the current date and time.
20
You can specify that a command
be run only once, but
21
this is not the typical use case for Cron.
22
Typically, one or more of the time
specification fields will contain
23
an asterisk or a star which matches
any time or date for that field.
24
This job will run only when
the minute is 0, the hour is 7,
25
and the day of the week is 1.
26
In the day of the week field,
0 represents Sunday, 1 is Monday, etc.
27
This job will run on any day of the month,
and
28
during any month since the asterisk
was used for those two fields.
29
If any output is generated by the command
in a Cron job, it is mailed to you.
30
You can check your local
mail with the mail command.
31
If you would prefer not to get email,
32
you can direct the output of
the command as in this example.
33
You can provide multiple values for
each of the fields.
34
If you would like to run
a command every half hour,
35
you could use 0,30 in the minute field or
*/2.
36
You can even use ranges with a dash.
37
If you want to run a job every minute for
38
the first five minutes of the hour,
you can use 0-4 in the minutes field.
39
That job will get executed at the top of
the hour, zero minutes then one minute.
40
Two minute, three minute and
41
at the fourth minute running
a total of five times every hour.
42
There are several implementations of
the Cron scheduler, and some of those
43
implementations allow you to use
shortcuts and keywords in your Crontabs.
44
I'm gonna cover some common shortcuts,
but these may or
45
may not work on your Linux distribution.
46
The best thing to do is to man Cron and
check to see if these will work for you.
47
The @yearly shortcut means to
run once a year at midnight
48
on the morning of January 1st.
49
Annually is just the exact
same thing as yearly.
50
Monthly means run once a month at midnight
51
on the morning of
the first day of the month.
52
Weekly, run once a week at
midnight on the morning of Sunday.
53
Daily, run every day at midnight.
54
Midnight is the same thing as daily and
hourly means to run
55
once an hour at the beginning of the hour,
or at the top of the hour.
56
The Crontab command manipulates cron jobs.
57
You can use Crontab space file
to install the new Crontab
58
from the contents of that file.
59
To list your jobs, run crontab-l,
to edit them use crontab-e.
60
Note that crontab-e will invoke
61
the editor that's specified in
the editor environment variable.
62
Crontab dash r removes
all of your cron jobs.
63
If we run the Crontab dash l command
it should list our cron jobs, and
64
in this case I do not have any cron
jobs scheduled, so let's create one.
65
I'm just going to edit a file
with my favorite editor vi.
66
Any line that begins with an octothorpe or
a pound sign or a hash, or
67
whatever you want to call that,
is a comment.
68
This will be ignored and cell script so
it would be ignored by krone, etcetera.
69
Let's create a time specification.
70
So, zero minutes, seven for
71
the hour and one represent Monday and
72
we will put the command we want to run,
opt/sales/bin/weekly-report.
73
I'll save that to that file.
74
And we can install that file by
running crontab and the file name.
75
Now when we list our Cron jobs we'll
see that we have one Cron job.
76
Let's see, let's look at
the editor environment variable.
77
It's not set.
78
Let's set editor to vi.
79
Edit the crontab by running crontab -e.
80
And if I wanna disable this cron job for
instance, I could just comment it out.
81
Another way I can do that is run
crontab -r to delete my cron jobs.
82
And you can see that that removed them.
83
The cron service runs scheduled jobs.
84
You can manipulate those jobs
with the crontab command.

--- Switching Users and Running Commands as Others ---

This lesson will cover how to switch to other accounts and how to run commands and programs as other
users.
One way to start a session as another user on the system is to use the SKU command.
If no arguments are supplied to sue, it assumes that you are trying to become the super user or route
account.
Executing Sue without any options is the same thing as executing Sue space route.
Your current environment is passed to the new shell unless you specify a hyphen or a dash.
In that case, Sue creates an environment like you would expect to see had you logged in as that user.
Use the dash see option to sue to specify command to be executed.
If the command you want to execute is more than one word in length, then you need to surround it with
quotes.
If you want to know what user you are working as run the who am I command?
If you run, who am I?
It should return your current account name and after you sue or switch to another user.
Who am I should return that user accounts name.
Let's set an environment variable to test with.
We'll set test to one.
Now let's use the command to switch to the Oracle user, for instance.
And you can see that that environment variable is passed on our environment exist after we change to
the Oracle user.
Let's use Sue with a dash to get Oracle's environment.
And you can see that our environment variable of test was not passed on when we sue space dash to the
Oracle user.
Also we ended up in the Oracle's Home Directory.
Let's pass a command.
Let's do this.
Echo Oracle home.
And nothing was returned.
We didn't specify that we wanted Oracle's environment.
Rather, we used our environment.
Let's use a dash to say Let's get Oracle's environment.
And now you can see that that environment variable that exists in the Oracle account is accessible to
us.
Another way to switch users or execute commands as others is to use the sudo command.
Sudo allows you to run programs with a security privileges of another user like ASU.
If no user name is specified, it assumes that you are trying to run commands as the super user.
This is why Pseudo is referred to as super user due.
It is commonly used to install, start and stop applications that require root privileges.
One of the advantages of using sudo over the issue command is that you don't need to know the password
of the other user.
This can eliminate some issues that arise from using shared passwords and generic accounts.
When you execute the pseudo command, you are prompted for your password.
If the pseudo configuration permits access, that command is executed.
The pseudo configuration is typically controlled by the system administrator and requires root access
to change.
Of course, on your personal system, you have access to the root account and you are effectively the
system administrator as well.
To see the commands that are available for you to run with sudo use sudo space dash l.
To run a command as a root user.
Just run sudo space the command you want to execute.
You can specify a user with dash you so pseudo SpaceX dash you SpaceX route space command is the exact
same thing as pseudo space command.
However, if you want to run a command as another user, you need to specify that with dash you so sudo
space dash you Oracle Space Command for example.
You can use pseudo space S2 to switch to the super user account.
If you use pseudo space as use space dash and hit enter, you get switched to the super user account
with the roots environment pseudo space.
S2 Space dash space.
A username would switch to that usernames account with an environment like you would expect to see had
you logged in as that user.
Another way to switch to another account with kudu is to use the dash se option.
If you run pseudo space dash s, that will start a shell as route.
You can specify a user with the dash you option.
We can use the pseudo dash l command to see what commands we can run with pseudo.
In this case, it looks like it can run any command, and I don't even need to specify a password.
Here's an example where you would use sudo to execute a command as route.
For instance, let's start an application called oracle.
You can also run pseudo with you to run programmes as other users besides root.
So lets run something as the user bob and let's say we need to stop start Bob's app as the user Bob.
And that worked.
And that program is running as.
Bob, let's switch to the Oracle account.
And you can see that I'm the Oracle user.
And now I'm back to my normal Jason account and I can also use pseudo with a dash s.
Let's do that to change to the root account.
And you can see that I'm a root account and I'm in my home directory.
Let's do this another way.
You can also switch to the route account with Sue.
Sue or even Sue.
Sue.
Dash to get roots environment.
If you need to modify the pseudo configuration, use the command v pseudo.
It effectively starts the VI editor and edits the ETSI pseudo ers file.
The VI pseudo command has to be executed with the root privileges.
This means that you either need to switch to the root account and run v do for example sue space root,
then run VI pseudo or run pseudo vi rc2 as your own account.
The Suitors file contains a list of users and what commands that those users can run and as what users
those commands can be run as.
There are many options to the suitors file, but the most simple format and one that you'll see quite
often is a line that gives a specific user a set of commands that he or she can run.
The specification starts with the user that is getting the pseudo privilege, followed by the host on
which that user can execute those privileges on.
This allows system administrators to use one sewers configuration file and distribute that to multiple
servers.
The user listed in parentheses is the user that the commands will run as.
Finally, a list of commands is provided that the user can run.
You can separate multiple commands with a comma.
Also, if you don't require that a password be entered when using pseudo, you can supply the node password
decorator in front of the commands.
Use the SUE command to switch users to get the users environment that you're switching to.
Remember to use a hyphen or dash.
The Who am I?
Command displays your current account name.
The pseudo command allows you to execute programs as other users to switch users with pseudo.
Use pseudo space, dash se or pseudo isu.
If you need to change the pseudo configuration, use the VI pseudo command to edit the pseudo file.

--- Shell History and Tab Completion ---

In this lesson we will be
covering the shell history,
how to repeat commands or
portions of commands
with the exclamation mark syntax
and how to use auto completion.
Each command you enter into the shell
is recorded in your shell history.
Having access to your shell
history is extremely useful.
You can search through
your shell history,
repeat commands that you
previously entered
and even recall previous commands
and change them slightly
before executing them again.
Not only can they save
you time and keystrokes,
but it can prevent you
from making mistakes
by running a previously
known good command.
Some shells like bash keep
their history in memory
and only write the history
to a file on exit.
Common history files include -
'.bash_history',
'.history' and '.histfile'.
These history files are stored
in your home directory.
The history command displays the
commands in your shell history.
It precedes each one of the commands
with a number that can be used
to reference that command at a later time.
By default, bash retains 500
commands in your shell history.
This is controlled by the 'HISTSIZE'
environment variable.
If you want to increase this number,
add 'export HISTSIZE=some number'
and place that in your personal
initialization files.
You can use the exclamation mark
history expansion syntax
to rerun the command by number.
Run the history command to
get a list of commands
that are preceded by a number.
If you want to rerun command
number 3 in your history,
you would type, '!3' enter.
Sometimes the exclamation mark
is abbreviated or called bang.
So if I were to say 'bang 3',
we know that that means
the exact same thing
as '!3'.
If you want to repeat
the previous command,
you can use 'bang bang' enter.
If you want to repeat a command
that starts with a certain
letter or string,
you can enter bang followed
by that string.
For example, let's say you want
to repeat the cat command
you executed a few moments earlier,
you can simply enter 'bang c' enter.
In addition to executing entire
commands in your history,
you can pull out parts of a command line.
The syntax is '!:number'.
The bang represents an event.
You can use the bang syntax
we just talked about.
bang number or bang string
or bang bang.
When pulling out words from
a previous command,
you can abbreviate bang bang
to just bang.
The number in the syntax represents
a word on the command line.
Zero represents the first word
on the command line
which is always going
to be a command.
One represents the second word
on the command line.
An easy way to think about this is that
it represents the first argument
to the command.
Let's say you execute this command.
'head files.txt sorted_files.txt notes.txt'.
To repeat that entire command,
type '!!' enter.
If you want to pull out the second
argument to the previous command,
use '!:2'.
'vi !:2' is equivalent to
'vi sorted_files.txt'.
In this example, '!:0' is equivalent to head,
'!:1' is files.txt.
'!:2' is sorted_files.txt.
And '!:3' is notes.txt.
Here are two more exclamation mark
syntax shortcuts.
The first is '!^'.
'!^' represents the first
argument to a command.
It's the same as '!:1'.
The next shortcut is '!$'
which represents the last word
on the command line.
In this example command line,
'!^' equals files.txt
and '!$' represents notes.txt.
If you wanted to edit notes.txt,
you could count the number of
words on the command line
and use 'vi !:3'.
Or save the counting and a character
and simply type 'vi !$'.
You can search for commands
in your history.
To start a reverse shell history search,
type 'ctrl r'.
Your prompt changes to reflect
that you are performing a search.
Start typing in characters
from the previous command
that you're searching for.
If the first result returned is not
what you're looking for,
type 'ctrl r' again to get
the next previous match.
To execute the command as it is
simply press the enter key.
If you want to modify the
command before executing it,
use the left or right arrow keys
to start navigating the command line.
Make your changes and type enter
to execute the command.
To cancel your search and return
to the prompt, type 'ctrl g'.
Another way to increase your
efficiency at the command line
is by using tab completion.
After you start typing a command,
you can hit the tab key to
invoke tab completion.
Tab attempts to automatically
complete partially typed commands.
If there are multiple commands
that begin with the same string
that precedes tab,
those commands will be displayed.
You may need to hit the tab key twice
in order to reveal the
possible completion options.
You can continue to type
and press tab again.
When there is only one
possibility remaining,
pressing the tab key will
complete the command.
Tab completion not only
works on commands
but also works on files
and directories.
You can even use tab completion
for environment variables
or usernames when using the
tilde expansion syntax.
Once you spend some time experimenting
with tab completion,
it will become second nature.
The history command displays
a list of commands in your shell history
preceded by a number.
To run commands with a number
you can type '! and the number'
so '!1' will run the first command
in our history which is history.
Let's run another command here,
'HISTSIZE'.
To rerun the previous command,
we can use the '!!' syntax.
And that displays the command
that's going to be executed.
Then it executes that command
and then it returns the output
from that command.
Let's repeat the history command.
This time let's use the '!'
and a string syntax
so we can use '!h' for the most
previous command that started with 'h'.
If we want to run the echo command
we could use '!2' since it's
number 2 in our history list
and then again it displays
what it's going to run,
runs it and then provides the output.
Let's look at this 'ls' command.
Again to run the previous
command over again '!!'.
If you want to pull out
portions of that command
we can use the '!:'
and old number syntax.
So let's type 'echo !:2' to grep
the second argument of this command.
So 'ls' is 0.
'files' is 1, 'sorted_files' is 2,
and 'notes' is 3.
So 'echo !:2' should return
'echo sorted_files.txt'.
and then it appends the command
that it's going to run
and then the output of that command.
So again if we want to run a command
that starts with a particular letter,
we could do that again with '!l'.
So let's pull that up.
So we've run our 'ls' command again.
So if we want to just pull out
the last thing
on the previous command line,
we can use '!$'.
So 'echo notes.txt'.
So let's go up our 'ls' command again.
If we want to run the first argument
to the previous command,
we can use 'echo !^'.
And that pulls out
files.txt since it was
the first argument on
this command line.
Let's run some more commands here.
'echo alpha bravo charlie'.
This will grow about the first argument
to the previous command
which will be alpha.
And then we can use the bang syntax
to specify a command.
Let's specify the command
that began with 'l'.
So this should be our 'ls' line.
And let's pull out 2 -
'sorted files' from here.
And then let's just put in
some more text here.
'delta', and then we'll pull out
the 'ls' command again
and then the zero word or the
command itself from that event.
So you can see we have
'echo alpha sorted_files.txt delta ls'.
If you want to perform
a reverse search
we can type 'ctrl r'
and you see that the
prompt changes to say
that you're performing
a reverse search.
This is going to search for echo,
so I'll start typing an 'e'.
And 'c'.
So it pulls out the previous command,
the previous echo command.
If that's not the one we're looking for,
we can type 'ctrl r' again
and we can get the next previous command.
And then 'ctrl r' again.
And then if we find the command we want,
we can just hit enter to
execute that command.
Let's do the same thing again.
'crtl r' to go to a different command
and if we want to modify this
command before it executed,
let's just press an arrow key
and then edit the command line.
So let's take off these items
and then press enter.
If you're doing a reverse search,
and you decide that you really
don't want to do that,
you can cancel it with 'ctrl g'.
And that brings you back to your prompt
and nothing has been executed.
Let's look how the help
tab completion works.
Let's type the word 'who'.
And then hit tab tab.
So there are two possible
expansions here.
If I type the letter 'a'
and hit tab,
there's only one option
and it completes that command.
Hit enter and it runs that command.
Let's do the same thing with file.
So let's type 'ls file',
hit tab a couple of times
and it shows our choices here.
So let's do 'files.txt'.
Let's show how this can be pretty quick.
So if I type 'ls sorted­_files.txt notes.txt'
and hit enter,
that's fairly fast typing,
but if you use tab completion
it could be a lot quicker.
So I just typed 'ls so', 'tab',
and then 'n', 'tab'.
And it did the file completion for us.
You can also use tab completion
for environment variables.
So we know the hist environment variable
or the HISTSIZE environment variable
controls how many commands
are stored in our history.
So let's just look at this - H. I. S. T..
And tab.
And then you can see that those are a
few options that are in our environment.
So I'll just hit 's', and then press tab,
and it completes it.
You also can do the tab
completion with usernames,
with the tilde expansion syntax.
So tilde represents your home directory
if you don't give an argument.
So that's 'home/jason'.
If we type in '~adm' and
hit tab a couple of times,
we can see that there are two users
that begin with 'adm' on our system.
So let's just type in 'i'
because we want to see
the adminuser's home directory.
Hit tab, it auto completes,
we'll press enter
and then that displays
'/home/adminuser'.
In this lesson we talked about
how shell history is stored
and how the number of commands it saves
can be manipulated by the
HISTSIZE environment variable.
The exclamation mark syntax,
though a little complicated,
is very powerful.
You can use it to repeat entire
commands from shell history
or extract portions of
previous commands.
Using the tab key to
perform auto completion
can increase your efficiency,
speed up your work flow
and prevent typing mistakes.

--- Installing Software on RPM Based Linux Distros: RedHat, CentOS, AlmaLinux, Rocky ---

Welcome to this lesson on installing and managing software on Linux systems.
In this lesson you'll learn about the two most commonly used package types and package managers.
After completing this lesson, you'll know how to manage software on RedHat Enterprise, Linux, CentOS,
Debian, Ubuntu and other related Linux distributions.
Because installing and managing software on a Linux system is a very common task.
A standard method of bundling and distributing software was created.
Package managers provide a common interface for finding, installing and uninstalling software without
packages and package managers.
The process is much more hands on and manual.
It leaves things such as hosting the software files up to the developer and you as the user.
The job of finding that software on the Internet.
Plus you'll need to manually download and install the software, potentially compiling it from source
code.
Once you've completed this lesson, you'll be able to manage software installations on Linux.
Specifically, you'll be able to find, install and remove individual packages, get information about
a package and or determine which package to install.
Given multiple choices, determine if an individual package is installed.
List all the packages that are installed on a system, list all the files contained within a package
and find what package a particular file belongs to.
Typically, when you install software on a Linux system, you do so with the package.
A package is a collection of files that typically make up an application.
Additionally, a package contains data about the application as well as any steps required to successfully
install and remove that application.
The data or metadata that is contained within a package can include information such as the description
of the application, the version of the application, and a list of other packages that it depends on.
A package manager is used to install, upgrade and remove packages.
Any additional software that is required for a package to function properly is known as a dependency.
The package manager uses a packages metadata to automatically install any dependencies.
Package managers keep track of what files belong to what packages, what packages are installed, and
what versions of those packages are installed.
Now that you have an understanding of what packages and package managers are, we can introduce the
two types that you will learn how to use in this lesson distributions or operating systems such as RedHat
Enterprise, Linux, CentOS, Alma Linux, Oracle Linux, Fedora Scientific Linux are all RPM based
distributions.
RPM stands for Red Hat Package Manager or RPM Package Manager.
Debian Ubuntu Kali Linux Linux Mint are all examples of DB based distributions or Debian based distributions.
Now here's a little obscure and fun fact.
The name Debian is actually the creator's wife's name and his name combined, that being Deborah and
Ian.
So he called it Debian.
Of course there are other distributions that use these package types, but these are the main ones you
will likely encounter at home and end the workplace.
By the way, distro is short for distribution.
Also, some people call distributions flavors, so just know that a distribution, a distro and a flavor
mean the exact same thing and are often used interchangeably.
Now let's take a closer look at installing software on RPM based distros.
Historically, the Yum command line utility was the package management program for Linux distributions
that use RPM packages.
If you are using Red Hat seven or CentOS seven and earlier, you will use the Yum command.
However, Yum has been replaced with DAFF, starting with Red Hat eight and we'll cover that in just
a minute.
If you want to search for a package by its name or description, use yum search string where string
is the thing you are searching for to display information about a package use yum info package name.
By the way, you can use yum info without supplying a package to get information on all packages your
package manager knows about.
But be careful because there are a lot of packages installed on a Linux system by default.
You can also use wild cards.
For example, you can run yum info bash asterisk to retrieve info on packages, starting with a letters
B as H.
It's important that you put the search term that contains a wild card in quotation marks.
If you fail to do that, then the shell will expand the wild card based on files in your present working
directory, and then it will pass that list of files to Yum instead of the wild card itself.
Now, this might be a little confusing at this point, but I'll give you a demonstration of how this.
Works in just a minute and it will make much more sense then.
For now, just be sure to use quotation marks around search terms that contain wild cards.
Okay, let's get back to what we can do with Yum to install a package, use yum install and the package
name.
You can use the dash option to automatically answer yes to Yum questions.
By the way, when you see something in brackets, it means it's optional.
So the notation you see here on your screen means you can run yum, install package or optionally yum
install dash y package.
Remember, in order to install or remove a package, you need to use root or superuser privileges to
remove or uninstall a package.
Use Yum remove followed by the package name to update all the installed packages on the system.
Run yum upgrade.
If you only want to update one package to the latest available version, supply the package name after
the command.
For example, you could run Yum upgrade bash to ensure you have the most up to date version of Bash
on your system.
DNF has become the Default Package Management Command, starting with RedHat eight and CentOS eight
and later.
DNF is a drop in replacement for Yum!
This means that any sub command you are accustomed to using with Yum will work the same way with DNF.
For example, DNF search works exactly the same as Yum search.
As a matter of fact, you can even continue using the Yum command on Red Hat and CentOS eight because
Yum is a SIM link or a pointer to the new DNF command.
So when you run Yum on Red Hat eight, you're actually running DNF.
If you are using Red Head eight, I suggest that you use the DNF command instead of Yum.
I highly suspect future releases will remove the ability to use the Yum command all together.
In addition to the DNF command, you can use the RPM command to interact with the packages when you
use this lower level command to be aware that you do not get all the features of DNF, such as automatic
installation of dependencies.
If you want to see all the installed packages on a system, you can run RPM Space dash q a if you want
to know which package that a file belongs to, you can run RPM space, dash qf space and then the path
to that particular file.
Use the command rpm space, dash, SQL space, the package name to list all the files that belong to
that package.
If you want to install a package from a file named packaged on RPM, well you would use RPM space dash
i VH space package rpm use rpm dash e followed by a package name to uninstall that package.
Now remember, in these command examples that you see here on the slides, the word package represents
the package name.
Some examples of package names could include Engine X or curl or bash.
This demonstration that I'm about to perform assumes that your machine has an Internet connection.
I'm also using CentOS for this example, but this will work with the Red Hat, Enterprise Linux, Alma
Linux, Rocky Linux, Oracle Linux and so on.
So again, this is for DNF and RPM based distributions.
Now, as I mentioned, this particular Linux system has an internet connection and by default package
managers download packages from the Internet.
On a side note, package managers can be configured to pull packages from a location on a local network.
This is useful on a corporate network where you have internal or private software that should only be
distributed to company systems.
So let's say we want to install the engine x web server.
So the first thing we would do would be to search for a package named Engine X.
Linux keeps a local copy of all the packages that are available in the remote repositories.
Now, if that list of packages is older, outdated, DNF will first go ahead and download an updated
list of those packages.
And that's exactly what happened here at the very beginning of this command.
Here, the Daph search command returns a list of possible packages whose name or description contains
the search string of engine X that we supplied to DNF search.
Now, one thing I want to point out here is after the period, so you see period X 86 underscore 64
or period no arc or no architecture.
So these are the architectures supported by these packages.
This means that this package is specifically for an X 8664 processor.
This means that this is not specific to any CPU type or CPU architecture.
Now, out of this list of packages, I highly suspect that the first one returned Engine X will be what
we need to install.
But let's go ahead and query it to get some more information about it.
So we'll use DAFF info and the package name.
Here we can see the version, description and other supporting information about this package.
Now to install it, we need to go ahead and switch to the root user.
As installing packages requires root or superuser privileges.
Let's use the def install command to install the package.
I'm going to use the dash y option to automatically answer yes to any of Daphne's questions.
And I'll supply the package name of Engine X.
So you'll notice here that not only did the engine X package get installed, but many other supporting
packages were too.
So in this example, you just saw dependency management at work, and this is one of the key benefits
of using a package manager.
We can prove engine X was installed by using the DNF list installed command.
We can also use the Witch Command to search for the binary files path.
Let's say we no longer need Engine X and decide to uninstall it.
So we'll use DNF for a move and we'll also use the dash y option again to skip the confirmation of removal.
Remember, removing software requires privilege escalation either with Sudo or SU because we are already
route from the installation step, we don't have to proceed the command with sudo for example.
So again to remove the package, we'll run DNF, remove dash y and the package name of engine x.
If you want to make sure that your system has all of the latest packages installed with all the latest
bug fixes and security updates.
Run.
DNF upgrade.
If there are any outdated packages, DAFF will provide a list of them to you as you see here on your
screen.
If you want to update them, then type Y and hit enter.
By the way, you can also use the dash y option here too.
So if you want to force an update without reviewing the packages first, you could have run def upgrade
dash y.
If all of the installed packages are at the latest available versions, then DAFF will report that there
is nothing for it to do.
Again here you see that there are several packages that are outdated on this particular system.
So I've typed Y and now I'm going to hit enter and this will tell DAFF to upgrade those packages to
the latest version.
So let's do that now.
I'll go ahead and speed up the video here so you don't have to wait the several minutes that it's going
to take for this actual upgrade to complete.
Now let's take a look at the RPM command and we can find a package from the Internet, download it and
then install it using RPM.
Now keep in mind, when searching for RPM packages on the internet, know that your machine's distribution
and process architecture matters.
Make sure that the RPM package is for your system's particular distribution of Linux.
Now sometimes the same RPM can be used on multiple distros, but other times there is a different RPM
for each supported distro.
Unless the RPM package that you are working with is labeled as no arch, meaning there is no specific
processor requirement.
You'll need to select the correct option for your processor.
If you are using a 64 bit Intel or AMD processor, you'll look for x 86 underscore 64 packages.
If you're using a 64 bit arm processor, for example, you'll look for a R, C, H, 64 packages.
You can use the Yu name command to help determine your architecture.
So you use you name space m and this will print out the machine's architecture.
So here I'm using an intel CPU, so I have x 86 underscore 64.
So what I'm going to do right now is download a package from the internet to my local Linux system by
using the kernel command kernel is mainly used to transfer data over a network such as downloading a
file.
The dash capital O option causes the file to be saved locally with the same name that was used on the
remote system.
This particular RPM package contains the word no AAC.
That means it will work no matter what CPU type I have.
Be it intel arm or something else.
So now let's go ahead and install it with the RPM command.
So we'll use RPM space dash i VH and the name of the file.
So I'll type example one and I'm just going to hit tab here to let bash autocomplete that for me.
So let me hit enter.
So now we see that there is a missing dependency of example dash lib.
So now I'm going to go ahead and download and install that missing dependency manually.
After I have the dependency installed, then I can go ahead and install this original RPM that I wanted
to install.
Okay.
I'll install it with RPM.
Now I'll go ahead and install that original package from a couple commands ago.
So I'm just going to Up Arrow a couple of times here and there's the package that I want to install.
I'll hit enter.
By the way, if these packages were in a repository and we use the DNF command to install the example
package, DAFF would have also downloaded and installed the example dash lib package.
Dependency management is a nice feature of DAFF.
Just know that if you are not using DAFF, you will have to perform any dependency management yourself,
just as you saw me do here.
Also, I quickly want to state that if the packages do not install, that could mean you have made a
typing mistake when downloading the package.
If you do make a typing mistake, then you'll end up with a file that contains an HTML error message
instead of the package itself.
So if you run into this issue, just double check your typing and try again.
One way to see if the package is installed is to list all the installed packages on the system and you
can do that with RPM dash queue.
The dash queue option tells RPM that we're performing a query and the a option tells RPM to return a
list of all of the installed packages.
So when I do that, you see all these packages spew to the screen scrolling by very quickly.
A better way to find the package we just installed is by specifying it instead of scrolling through
this long list and looking for it manually.
So we'll do our RPM queue example because we are specifying a single package, we can leave out the
EH option because again A stands for all.
However, we don't have to.
This works as well.
We'll do rpm q a and limit it to example.
If we want to list all the files included in a package, we can use the RPM Space SQL Command.
This package only contains one file named example and it's located in the user local bin directory.
We can double check that user local bin example actually belongs to the RPM that we just installed by
using the RPM qf command.
What is returned is the package name that the file belongs to.
Finally, let's remove the RPMs that we installed.
We'll uninstall the packages in the reverse order that we installed them.
If we don't do that, RPM will print an error telling us that another package depends on the one that
we are trying to uninstall.
Also, keep in mind that we don't have to specify the architecture or file extension for the package.
We can just use the packages name.
So I've just installed example.
Now I've uninstalled the example dash lib package and to be totally certain we uninstalled the package.
We can repeat the command from earlier to search for an installed package.
As you can see, it says the package example is not installed.
By the way, if you get nothing returned as well, that also means that the package was uninstalled.
Now, if you remember way back earlier in this lesson, I mentioned that you could use wild cards,
and I also told you to put wild cards in quotation marks.
Let me demonstrate why now?
So let's get some information on packages that contain the text example.
The asterisk matches any character or an empty string.
So asterisk example asterisk means that the package name can have any characters before or after example.
So a package named example 1 to 3 will match.
Asterisk.
Example.
Asterisk.
And a package named my dash.
Examples will also match.
So let me hit.
Enter here.
On the screen here, you see a package named Q DT five.
Q TT XML patterns, dash examples.
And of course, that package matches the wild card pattern.
However, look at what happens if we don't enclose the wild card search in quotation marks.
Now we get a message that says no matching packages to list.
The reason is because asterisk example asterisk was expanded first and then that expanded content was
passed to the DNF command.
Now we can demonstrate this expansion with the LZ command, so I'll do LZ asterisk example asterisk.
So I'm actually going to highlight this text here and copy it.
So running DNF info asterisk example asterisk is the exact same command as running what you see here
on your screen.
So again, the important thing here to remember is that if you are going to use wild cards, just use
quotation marks.

--- Installing Software on Debian Based Linux Distros: Debian, Ubuntu, Kali Linux ---

Now let's take a look at Debian based distributions here on your screen.
You see a couple of examples of Debian based distributions.
Of course, Debian is Debian base to Ubuntu Linux, Mint, Kali, Linux and so on.
These Debian based distributions use a package manager called APT.
APT stands for the advanced packaging tool.
Historically, APT was comprised of a few small utilities with the two most commonly used ones being
apt cash and apt get.
However, a few are using the latest versions of Debian and Debian based distros such as Ubuntu.
All the functionality of those different tools have been combined into one command.
The APT command, and we'll cover that command in just a minute.
However, if you find that the APS command isn't available, I want to cover the slightly older method
here of managing software with APT.
And don't worry, everything you learn here actually carries over to the APT command as you'll see shortly.
If you want to search for a package by its name or description, use apt cache search string where string
is the thing that you are searching for.
To install a package used apt get install package where package is the name of the package.
By the way, you can use the y option to automatically answer yes to apt gets questions to remove a
package used apt get remove followed by the package name.
Now be aware that this command does not delete the configuration files for that package from your system.
If you want to remove both the package and its configuration files from the system, use apt get purge
followed by the package name to display information about a package used.
APT cash show followed by the package name.
APT keeps a local copy of available packages that are in the configured repositories.
As new versions of software are released, this local copy will become stale or out of date to get the
current list of available software run apt get update before you install software.
It's a best practice to run apt get update first.
If you don't run APT Get Update, you might encounter a situation where the specific package you are
attempting to install is not available.
Let's say the last time you ran apt get update was two weeks ago.
At that time, let's also say that engine x 1.18 was available to be installed.
However, since then a bug was fixed and version 1.19 replaced version 1.18.
If you try to install engine x without running apt get update, your local system will attempt to download
the old version which is no longer available and you'll get an error by running apt get update first.
Your local system will download a list of all the current packages and versions available.
So when you're installing software on Debian based systems, it's best to get in the habit of running
apt get update before performing the actual software installation.
If you want to make sure that your system has all of the latest packages installed with all the latest
bug fixes and security updates, run apt get upgrade on newer distributions such as Debian eight and
later and abont to 16.04 and later we can use the apt command instead of apt dash cache and apt dash
get the APT program combines the functionality of apt cache and apt git.
You can easily use what you've learned on the previous slide, so instead of running apt cache search
you can simply run apt search instead.
Also instead of running apt get install, you would just run apt install.
In addition to the apt utilities, you can use the dpkg command to install packages.
Although APT handles dependencies on debian based systems, the dpkg command does not to list all the
installed packages.
Run dpkg l use dpkg capital s followed by a path to a file to list the package that contains the file
at that specified path.
If you want to list all the files that belong to a given package run dpi k g capital l followed by the
package name.
To install the package, use G space II, followed by the file name that contains the package that you
want to install to remove or uninstall a package.
Use dpi k g space.
Dash r space.
The package name.
So I'm going to do a quick demonstration here on an above two system, and these commands will work
the same, be it on a Bantu or Debian or other Debian based distributions.
By the way, my system here has a connection to the Internet because I'm going to be downloading packages
from the Internet.
Now, remember that installing and uninstalling software requires root privileges, so it will first
switch to the root user.
Next, we want to make sure that we have the current list of available packages that are in the remote
repositories.
So let's go ahead and run apt update.
Now that we have an updated list of packages that we can install, let's search for the one that we're
interested in.
And in this example, we'll install the Engine X Web server.
Okay, great.
So you can see that there are several packages that have scrolled by on our screen.
And I'm just going to scroll up here and see if there is an engine X package and sure enough, there
is an engine x package.
The description of the engine x package is a small, powerful, scalable web and proxy server.
So that sounds like what we're looking for.
So let's go ahead and install that engine X package now with APT install and I'm going to use the dash
y option to automatically answer yes to any of apps questions.
And then question would be, hey, do you want to install this package along with its dependencies?
And so that's what we will allow us to do and then we'll give it a package name again.
In this case, we're installing Engine X.
Again, this is just a demonstration and I don't really need the next web server, so let's go ahead
and uninstall it now.
So one way to do that would be to use the apt remove command.
But what we're going to do is use apt purge to remove not only the binaries for the engine x web server,
but also the configuration files for that service as well.
If you want to make sure that your system has all of the latest packages installed that contain all
the latest bug fixes and security updates, just run apt upgrade.
So this system is fairly updated and it looks like there are only three packages that need to be upgraded.
So if there are outdated packages like there are here, apt will provide a list of those packages to
you.
And if you want to upgrade them, go ahead and type Y and hit enter.
By the way, you can also use the dash y option here too.
So if you want to force an update without reviewing the packages, run apt upgrade space dash y.
Also, if all of the installed packages are at the latest available versions already apt will report
that there is nothing for it to do.
Next, let's take a look at using the dpkg command.
We can find a dot deb package from the internet, download it and then install it using the dpkg command.
Just like with RPM packages when searching for dead packages on the internet.
Your machine's operating system and processor architecture often matter.
If you are using a 64 bit intel processor, you will look for packages that contain AMD 64 in their
names.
On the other hand, if you are using an ARM processor, you'll look for arm 64 packages.
However, if you see all AL in a Deb package name, that means it will work on all CPU architectures.
As a reminder, you can use the you name space in command to determine the architecture for your system.
The output here indicates that the processor on this particular system is an arm processor.
So what I'm going to do is download a package from the Internet to my local Linux system by using the
kernel command.
Now kernel is mainly used to transfer data over a network such as downloading a file.
The DASH capital option causes the file to be saved locally with the same name that was used on the
remote system.
Now let's attempt to install it with dpkg.
This package has a dependency of example dash libs, so we'll have to download and install that first.
Now by using this low level dpkg command, we have to do our own dependency management.
Now let's install the dependency first.
All right, so now let's go back and try to install our original package again.
By the way, don't think I'm a super fast typer when I'm using.
Here is tab completion.
So I typed out example, underscore and just hit tab and let bash complete the file name for me and
then I hit enter so I didn't have to type all those extra characters.
Anyway, let's go ahead and search for the package that we just installed.
It's listed as being installed.
We can also list all the files that are owned by that package with DPC g dash capital l followed by
the package name.
By the way, if you are curious about a command and want to know more about it and some more of the
things it can do.
You can almost always use dash dash help after the command name.
So for example, you could use DPC, Dash Dash Help and hit Enter, and you'll see all kinds of information
about all the things you can do with the DPC command.
Let's go ahead and remove that package that we just installed with dpkg are followed by the package
name.
By the way, you might encounter a situation where you've removed a package or uninstalled a package,
but the dependencies that it used are still left on the system and luckily APT has a way to deal with
that and that's by using APT space auto remove and that command will remove all of the unused dependencies
from your system.
And that's a way to keep things clean on your system.
By the way, I don't think I mentioned this in the RPM and DNF lesson, but DNF also has the auto removed
sub command to do the same thing.
So on an RPM based distribution you can use DNF auto remove.
And again here on a Debian based distribution, you can use apt auto remove.
Let's go ahead and wrap things up.
So packages are used to install software on Linux systems and you can manipulate packages with a package
manager.
Two of the most popular package formats are RPM and Deb for RPM based distributions.
Use the DNF and RPM commands to manage those packages for Debian based distributions.
Use APT and dpkg.
At this point, I'd like to encourage you to try installing software on your own.
Use the same method you learned here in this lesson.
Start off by searching for a package and if there are multiple choices, you may need to view the details
of the possible packages to narrow down your choice of which one to install.
Once you've determined the name of the package you want to install, go ahead and install it.
Finally verify that the package was successfully installed.
If you need an idea for something to install, let me suggest the Apache Web server or the Maria DB
database server.

--- The Linux Boot Process ---

0
In this lesson you'll learn about the
linux boot process. You'll learn about
1
the BIOS, the boot loader, the Linux kernel,
and runlevels. BIOS stands for Basic
2
Input Output System.
3
It's a special type of firmware used in
the booting process, and it's the first
4
piece of software that is run when a
computer is powered on. The BIOS is
5
operating system independent.
6
Its primary purpose is to test the
underlying hardware components and to
7
load a boot loader or operating system.
The BIOS performs a POST which stands
8
for Power-On Self-Test. The POST performs
some basic checks of various hardware
9
components such as the cpu, memory, and storage devices. Only if the POST
10
succeeds with a BIOS attempt to load the
boot loader. The BIOS contains a list of
11
boot devices such as hard disks, a DVD
drive, USB devices, and others, depending
12
on the hardware being used. The BIOS
searches that list for a bootable device
13
in the order specified.
14
You can change this order by
interrupting the boot sequence and
15
entering into the configuration for the
BIOS. The key combination used to do this
16
will vary from one hardware manufacturer
to another.
17
Once a bootable device has been found,
the BIOS will run the bootloader.
18
Typically, the GRUB boot loader will be
used, but you may run into some older
19
Linux systems that still use the LILO
boot loader.
20
LILO stands for Linux Loader, while GRUB
stands for Grand Unified Bootloader.
21
In any case, the primary purpose of the
boot loader is to start the operating
22
system. Typically, you will see a message
or a series of messages from the
23
boot loader that will allow you to
interrupt the boot process and interact
24
with the boot loader. If there are
multiple operating systems installed, you
25
can tell the boot loader which operating
system to run.
26
You can also tell the boot loader to pass
different boot options to the operating
27
system.
28
The initial RAM disk, abbreviated "initrd", is a temporary file system that's
29
loaded into memory when the system boots.
30
This file system can contain helpers
that perform hardware detection and load
31
the necessary modules, sometimes called
drivers, to get the actual file system
32
mounted. For example, if the root file
system is stored on an LVM volume, or
33
Logical Volume Manager volume. The initrd image will contain the kernel modules
34
required to mount that logical volume as
the root file system. Once the initrd
35
mounts the actual root file system,
36
its job is done and the operating
system continues loading from the real
37
root filesystem. The Linux kernel, the
initial RAM disk, and other files needed
38
to boot the operating system are stored
in /boot.
39
Here's a listing of the /boot directory
for an Ubuntu system.
40
The kernel is typically named "vmlinux",
or "vmlinuz". If the kernel is compressed,
41
its name ends in z.
42
In this example, the kernel is
vmlinuz-3.1320-46-generic. The initial
43
RAM disk in this example is initrd.img
44
-3.13.0-46-generic. The kernel
ring buffer contains messages related to
45
the Linux kernel. A ring buffer is a data
structure that is always the same size.
46
Once the buffer is completely full, old
messages are discarded when new messages
47
arrive. To see the contents of the
kernel ring buffer, use the dmesg
48
command, spelled "dmesg". On most Linux
distributions, these messages are also
49
stored on disk in the /var/log/dmesg file. Between the dmesg command and
50
the /var/log/dmesg log file, you will
be able to see the messages the kernel
51
is generating even during the earliest
stages of the boot process, when those
52
messages can quickly fly by your screen
on boot up. Linux uses runlevels to
53
determine what processes and services to start. Each distribution can be
54
configured differently but, in general,
runlevel 0 is used to power off the
55
system; runlevel 1 is single user mode;
56
runlevels 2 through 5 are for
normal system operations; and runlevel 6
57
is used to reboot the system.
58
Traditionally, runlevels were controlled
by the init program. The init configuration
59
was stored in /etc/inittab. To change
the default runlevel using init, you
60
would edit the /etc/inittab file and set
the runlevel number on the "initdefault"
61
line.
62
Here's an example of setting runlevel 3
to be the default runlevel.
63
However, init alternatives such as systemd and upstart are quickly taking the place of
64
init, with systemd currently being the
most widely adopted replacement.
65
Instead of a runlevel, systemd has the
concept of targets. These targets are
66
roughly equivalent to runlevels. To see
the list of available targets look in
67
/lib/systemd/system. You'll notice
the runlevel targets are actually
68
symlinks to the real targets being used. For example, runlevel5.target is a
69
symlink to graphical.target. To change
the default runlevel or target with
70
systemd, use the systemctl command,
followed by set-default, and finally
71
the desired target.
72
Optionally, you can manually create a
symlink to the desired target from the
73
/etc/systemd/system/default.target
file. This example sets the default
74
target to be "graphical", which is
equivalent to runlevel 5.
75
With the init system, you can change
runlevels using the telinit command.
76
Simply supply the runlevel you want to
change to to the telinit command. To
77
change the target to the runlevel
equivalent for systemd, use the systemctl
78
command, followed by "isolate", and
finally the desired target.
79
Here's how to change to the graphical
target.
80
Even though
81
is a runlevel for rebooting, or target for
rebooting if you're using systemd,
82
you can also use the reboot or shutdown
commands.
83
Here's how to reboot with init: "telinit 6". To reboot with systemd,
84
you use the systemctl command:
"systemctl isolate reboot.target".
85
To reboot using the reboot command,
simply execute "reboot".
86
The format of the shutdown command
is shown on your screen.
87
The option to tell shutdown to perform
a reboot is "-r". You can specify the
88
time to shut down using the "hour hour
minute minute" format (HH:MM). You can also use
89
"+n", where n represents the number of
minutes to wait before performing the
90
action.
91
Finally, you can use the "now" keyword to
start immediately.
92
You may also specify a "wall message" that
will be broadcast to all users logged in to
93
the system.
94
A simple way to reboot the system is to
run "shutdown -r now".
95
To power off a system, use runlevel 0, the poweroff target, or the poweroff
96
command.
97
Again, using init, you can run "telinit 0",
and with systemd, run "systemctl isolate
98
poweroff.target".  Or, finally, the
easiest way to do it is simply to run the "poweroff" command.
99
In this lesson you learned about the Linux boot process. You
100
learned that the job of the BIOS is to
perform basic hardware checks and to
101
start the boot loader from a bootable
device. You learned about the two most
102
commonly used boot loaders, LILO and GRUB.
103
The primary job of the boot loader is to
start the operating system.
104
You also learned that the files required
to boot a Linux system are stored in the
105
/boot directory.
106
The initial RAM disk, or initrd, is a
temporary file system that is loaded
107
into memory.
108
Its main job is to mount the file system
where the operating system is stored. The
109
Linux kernel is typically named "vmlinux"
or, if it's compressed, "vmlinuz". You
110
learned how to view the messages in the
kernel ring buffer by using the
111
"dmesg" command or by examining the /var/log/dmesg file.
112
You also learned about runlevels and
how systemd has an equivalent concept
113
known as targets. You learned to change the
run level with a telinit command for the
114
traditional init system and the systemctl
command for the systemd system.
115
Finally, you learned about the shutdown,
reboot and poweroff commands.

--- The Linux Boot Process - Demo ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
Style:
::cue(c.colorCCCCCC) { color: rgb(204,204,204);
}
::cue(c.colorE5E5E5) { color: rgb(229,229,229);
}
##
let's take a look at the lenox booting
process first i'm going to enter the
BIOS configuration utility in this
example i can press f2 to enter the BIOS
this key combination varies from
manufacturer to manufacturer most of the
time there will be a message displayed
on the screen that tells you how to
enter the BIOS configuration utility if
not you'll have to consult the
documentation for the hardware you're
working with i'll go ahead and click f2
the primary thing we are concerned with
in the bios is the list of suitable
devices will go to the boot menu for
this bios this bios is configured to
boot from removable devices first then
the hard drive and finally the cd-rom
drive we can control the boot order and
this bios i can make the server attempt
to boot from the CD rom first by
highlighting the CD wrong and then
pressing the + key a couple of times to
move it up the list once you've made
your changes you can go to the exit menu
and exit the bios to continue booting
the bio
acute the bootloader from the first
bootable device it can find here we're
looking at the grub menu if you have
multiple operating systems installed
this is where you can select the
operating system to boot this server
only has centos installed and there are
two menu entries to choose from in this
example there are two linux kernel's
installed on the system
let's look at the first menu item by
pressing the e key the line that starts
with linux tells the bootloader which
kernel to use the scroll down to find
that line hear this
anything that appears after the colonel
is passed to the colonel as an argument
on boot here you see the path to the
kernel which is / boot vm lenez dash the
version dot x86 underscore 64 everything
else on the command line there is passed
to the colonel as an argument
this is where if you wanted to boot the
system in the single user mode you could
supply and s argument to the colonel
like so let's first boot the system
without changing anything though
go ahead and click escape to get out of
this menu and then simply hit enter to
start this particular Colonel on bootup
Irial only see a couple of messages once
that boots up will reboot again until
the colonel to give us more information
during the boot process
go ahead and login here as root and to
reboot remember that there are a couple
of ways to do this one is by using the
shutdown command could you shut down to
char and give a time such as now are
five minutes from now and then
optionally a reboot message
like this for example or you could
simply run the reboot command which is
what i'm going to do now let's edit the
menu item and we'll go in here on the
colonel line and you'll notice this
quiet option the quiet option suppresses
a lot of the log messages on boot so
we'll go ahead and remove this argument
and then as you can see at the bottom of
the screen you can press ctrl x to boot
this configuration so that's what we're
going to do right now call hit ctrl x
and now you can see a lot more messages
scrolling past the screen
okay well
into the system and look at those
messages that just flew by the d message
command displays the contents of the
colonel ring buffer so if we run that
message again we see the messages we saw
during boot this time but these messages
are just flying by so I'm going to pipe
that output of the message to a pager
i'll just use less the numbers in the
bracket represent time and second since
boot so if you want the actual time you
can run the internet and PSG space dash
capital T and now you can see that an
actual human readable timestamp is in
between the brackets remember that
eventually the colonel ring buffer will
fill up and the messages and the first
messages will get discarded so to see
all the colonel messages since boot you
can look at the law
log.d messages file and we can go ahead
and run less on that as well
ok let's look at the files in the boot
directory here you'll notice that there
is an initial ramdisk and a couple of
kernels
you'll also notice the grand grub2
directory
this system is actually using grub2 so
the group configuration is stored in
that directory traditionally an it
control the run levels but if we look at
an it tab will see a message that
reminds us that were actually using
systemd let's check the default target
with the command gives us their system
CTL get cash default and you can see
that it set the multi-user target
let's go ahead and change that to boot
into the graphical user interface here
system set default graphical dot target
really all that command did was create
assembling because it shows on the
screen there
let's run the get default again and see
that it does indeed show the graphical
target to change the target Ron system
CTL us followed by isolate and then the
target name so we'll go ahead and start
the graphical target now that we
the graphical target we get a graphical
user interface here so i'll just go
ahead and log on
okay i hope that helps you understand
the boot process going from the bios to
the bootloader and finally booting up
the system and hopefully that showed you
some of the files that are in play in
the / boot directory and even how to
manipulate runlevels or targets as they
call them with systemd

--- System Logging ---

In this lesson you will learn
about the syslog standard,
facilities and severities,
syslog servers, logging rules,
how to determine what files
are used for which messages,
how to generate your own log messages,
and how to automatically rotate log files.
Linux uses the syslog standard
for message logging.
This allows programs and applications
to generate messages that can be captured,
processed, and stored by a system logger.
It eliminates the need for
each and every application
having to implement a logging mechanism.
It also means that logging
can be configured
and controlled in a central location.
The syslog standard uses
facilities and severities
to categorize messages.
Each message is labeled
with a facility code
and a severity level.
The various combinations
of facilities and severities
can be used to determine
how a message is handled.
Facilities are used to indicate
what type of program
or what part of the system
the message originated from.
For example, messages that are labeled
with the kern facility originate
from the Linux kernel.
Messages that are labeled
with the mail facility
come from applications involved
in handling mail.
Each facility has a number and
a keyword associated with it.
Notice the local facilities.
They are - local0 through local7.
You can use these for your
own custom applications.
This table lists each of the severities
including their code, keyword,
and description.
The emergency severity is the most severe
and debug is the least severe.
A syslog server accepts syslog messages
and processes those messages
based on a set of configurable rules.
Traditionally the syslogd daemon
filled this role
but many Linux distributions ship
with alternatives such as
'rsyslog' and 'syslog-ng'.
For the remainder of this lesson,
we are going to focus on rsyslog,
however the concepts apply
to any syslog server.
The main configuration file for rsyslog
is /etc/rsyslog.conf.
You can include additional
configuration files
by using the '$IncludeConfig' directive.
For example, this line will
cause rsyslog to read
and include all the configuration files
that end in .conf
and they are also existing
in the /etc/rsyslog.d directory.
Logging rules consist of two fields.
The first field is called
the selector field
and it lists the facilities and severities
of messages to include in the rule.
The second field is called the action field
and it determines what will
happen to the messages
matched by the selector field.
The most common action is to
write the messages to a log file.
The selector field and action
field can be separated
by one or more spaces or tabs.
The format of the selector field
is FACILITY.SEVERITY.
Note that wildcards are supported.
For example, to match all the mail messages
use the mail.*
You can also omit the .SEVERITY
if you want to include all messages
from the facility.
So, mail.* and mail are equivalent.
If you do not want to match
any messages from a facility,
use FACILITY.none.
If you want to match multiple
facility/severity pairs,
separate each pair with a semicolon.
This example rule matches messages
that have the facility
of mail and any severity.
It writes all the matching messages
to /var/log/mail.log.
If the path starts with a minus sign,
that tells rsyslog that it
doesn’t have to perform
a sync operation for each log message.
This is sometimes called caching mode.
When using caching mode,
know that some messages might be lost
if a system crashes immediately
after a write attempt.
However, you may see
performance improvements
during normal operations
if you have a system
that performs many logging operations.
The default configurations
that ship with a Linux distribution
will probably have a mix of caching
and non-caching rules
with less critical messages using caching.
In this example there are separate actions
for different severities of mail messages.
Notice that the less critical mail messages
are using caching mode.
This example is taken
from an Ubuntu system.
The first line ensures all
messages from the auth
and authpriv facilities are written to
/var/log/auth.log.
The second line writes all
messages except ones
originating from the auth
and authpriv facilities
to /var/log/syslog.
This particular example is taken from
a RedHat Enterprise Linux system.
The rule tells rsyslog to write
all messages except mail,
authpriv, and cron to /var/log/messages.
Hopefully you can start
to see why it’s important
to understand how to determine
where messages are being sent
instead of simply memorizing
that system messages are stored in
/var/log/messages.
Different distributions ship
with different configurations
and different companies, organizations,
and system administrators
may alter the default rules
to suit their particular needs.
You can use the logger command
to generate syslog messages.
This can prove to be useful
if you want to test
any configuration changes you’ve
made to the system logger
or if you want to generate log messages
from your own shell scripts.
Use the '-p' option to provide
a FACILITY.SEVERITY level.
If you don’t specify a
facility/severity pair,
it will default to 'user.notice'.
You can also use the '-t' option
to tag your message.
In this example we generate a message
with the mail facility at a
severity level of info.
You can see that the message made its way
to the proper log file.
You can use the 'logrotate' tool to rotate,
compress, remove, and even mail log files.
This provides an automated
way to manage log files
and can help prevent filling up
your storage space with log messages.
The configuration file for logrotate
is located at /etc/logrotate.conf.
Like many other configuration files,
it may use an include directive.
This line tells logrotate to
read configuration files
located in the /etc/logrotate.d directory.
Here is a sample logrotate.conf file.
The configuration in the main
file contains some defaults.
For example, the weekly keyword ensures
that log files will be rotated every week.
The rotate 4 line tells logrotate
to keep 4 weeks’ worth of logs.
Logs older than this will be removed.
The create line makes sure
that a new empty log file
is created after it is rotated.
This is a sample logrotate
configuration file
from an Ubuntu system.
It is located at /etc/logrotate.d/rsyslog.
It handles the log rotation
for all the files
associated with rsyslog.
Notice that the format
is a single log file,
or list of log files,
followed by the configuration
that controls those log files.
The configuration is enclosed in brackets.
Here is a look at the configuration options
that were used in this
particular configuration file.
'rotate'.
Rotate the files by count times
before removing them.
The 'weekly' keyword needs
to rotate log files weekly.
'missingok' means to
ignore missing log files.
'notifempty' indicates the logrotate to
not rotate the log file if it is empty.
'compress' means to compress
the rotated log files.
'postrotate'.
The lines between postrotate
and endscript are executed
using /bin/sh.
These commands are executed
after the rotation.
If you make changes to your
logrotate configuration
and want to test it, use
the following command.
'logrotate -fv' followed by
the configuration file,
in this case, '/etc/logrotate.conf'.
The '-f' option tells logrotate
to force a rotation
while the '-v' option enables
verbose logging.
In this lesson, you learned
about the syslog standard
and how it assigns a facility
and severity to each message.
You also learned that syslog servers employ
the use of logging rules to determine
what action to perform on a given message.
Typically the action is to simply
store the message in a log file.
You also learned how to test
the syslog server configuration
by generating messages
with the logger utility.
Finally, you learned how to use logrotate
to automatically prune system logs.

--- Disk Management - Part One ---

In this lesson you'll learn
about partitions,
MBR, GPT,
mount points and the fdisk utility.
When a disk or storage
device is partitioned,
it is divided into parts.
Each one of these parts
is called a partition.
Partitioning a disk allows you to allocate
different sections of the disk
for different purposes.
As a system administrator
you can decide what
partitioning scheme to use.
For example, you could use four partitions,
allocating one partition for
the operating system data,
another partition for the application data,
yet another one for the user data,
and finally a partition dedicated
to swap space.
Another example scheme would
simply be to use two partitions
and separate the user’s home directories
from the rest of the system.
Having separate partitions is one way
to prevent one part of the system
from adversely affecting
another part of the system.
Having a dedicated partition for
user home directories, for example,
prevents a user from
filling up the entire disk
and interfering with the normal operation
of the operating system.
Even though a user, or group of users,
may fill up the storage allocated
for home directories
and prevent another user
from using more space,
the operating system and any applications
that are running will still
be able to function normally.
If this system hosts
a website, for example,
the operating system will continue to run
as well as the web server
and a service outage
will have been avoided.
The MBR, or master boot record,
is a boot sector at the
beginning of a storage device.
The partition table that resides in the MBR
contains information on
how the logical partitions are
organized on the disk.
Because the partition table in the MBR
can only address storage space up to 2 TB,
it is being replaced by the
GUID Partition Table (GPT).
The MBR partitioning scheme
allows for up to four primary partitions.
If you want to create
more than four partitions,
then you’ll need to use
an extended partition.
An extended partition is a
special kind of primary partition
that is used as a container
for other partitions.
This allows you to create an
unlimited number of logical partitions.
The GUID (global unique identifier)
Partition Table, or GPT for short,
is replacing the older MBR
partitioning system.
It is part of the Unified Extensible
Firmware Interface (UEFI) standard.
The UEFI is replacing the traditional BIOS,
however GPT has been used
on some BIOS systems
primarily due to the disk size limitations
of MBR partition tables.
There are no primary and
extended partitions with GPT.
Using the default configuration,
GPT supports up to 128 partitions.
Also, GPT supports storage
devices up to 9.4 ZB.
The primary downside of GPT is that,
it is not supported on
older operating systems.
Also, you’ll need to use newer
partitioning utilities that support GPT.
A mount point is simply a directory
that is used to access
the data on a partition.
At the very least, there will be one
partition mounted on the '/mount point'.
Any additional partitions
will be mounted on mount points
below / in the directory tree.
For example, if you allocated a partition
for user home directories,
that partition would be mounted at /home.
The files and directories that are at
or below the /home mount point
will reside on that partition.
For example, the files in
my home directory,
/home/jason,
will be on the partition mounted at /home.
If you were to disconnect,
or unmount that partition
and mount it to another
directory (mount point),
all the data will be available
at that new mount point.
If /home were unmounted
and the partition was then
mounted at /export/home,
the files in my home directory
would now be available
at /export/home/jason.
It’s important to point out
that you can mount partitions
over existing data.
For example, if files are created in
/home before /home is mounted,
those files will not be accessible.
Let’s say you only have
the /partition mounted
and you create a home directory
for Sarah at /home/sarah.
The directory /home/sarah
resides on the partition
that is mounted on /.
If you were to then mount
another partition on /home,
you would no longer be able to
access the /home/sarah directory.
The data for that directory still exists,
but it is on the partition
associated with /.
Once you unmount /home,
then you would be able to see
/home/sarah again.
You can mount partitions anywhere
in the Linux directory tree.
You can even have mount points that reside
on other mounted partitions.
Let’s say you have a partition
mounted on /home.
You could then mount yet
another partition on /home/jason.
It’s important that /home be mounted
before /home/jason however.
You’ll learn how to associate partitions
with mount points as well as
control the order that those partitions
are mounted in a later lesson.
When performing interactive
Linux installations
you will most likely end up
using a partitioning tool provided
by the Linux distribution.
However, if you want to manipulate disks
after the initial installation
you will most likely need to
use a standard Linux tool.
The fdisk utility has been
traditionally used to create
and modify partitions on a disk,
but there are other viable alternatives
including gdisk and parted.
Earlier versions of fdisk
did not support GPT,
but as of this time, the latest
versions of fdisk support GPT.
To manage the partitions
on a disk with the fdisk utility,
simply provide the path to the device
you wish to manage as
an argument to the command.
In this lesson you learned
what partition tables are,
and some of the reasons to use partitions.
You also learned about the
GPT and MBR partition tables.
We covered mount points
and how they are simply directories
that are used to access
the data on a partition.
Finally you learned that you can
create partitions with the fdisk utility.
In the next lesson, you will learn exactly
how to create partitions with fdisk.

--- Disk Management - Part Two - Creating Partitions with fdisk ---

In this lesson you'll learn
how to use the fdisk utility
to create GPT and MBR partition tables.
If you are unsure what disks are available,
run 'fdisk -l' to display
a list of devices.
This particular server has 3 disks.
The first disk listed here, /dev/sdp,
does not contain any
partitioned information,
so it hadn't been partitioned.
You can see that this disk,
/dev/sda, has 2 partitions,
/dev/sda1, and /dev/sda2.
The third disk, like /dev/sdb,
/dev/sdc does not have a partition table.
Let's work with /dev/sdb.
Let's ask fdisk for some help
by typing in 'm' and hitting enter.
Let's create a new MBR partition table.
We will create 3 primary partitions.
The first one will be a 1GB swap partition,
the second will be a 20GB partition,
and the third and final partition
will use the remaining space on the disk.
To create a new MBR partition,
just type 'n' and hit enter.
It's going to guide us through
a series of questions here,
we'll just enter them along the way.
We're going to create a primary partition,
so you can either hit 'p' and hit enter
or the default answer is 'pc'
and just hit enter.
This is our first partition on this disk,
so we'll just hit enter
to create partition1.
And then we'll start at the default.
And here we're going to
enter '+1G' for 1GB in size.
You can see that that says
'partition1 of type Linux
and of size 1GB is set'.
So the default partition type
created by fdisk is Linux
and it's represented by the number 83.
To change the partition type,
we can type in 't'.
And to get a list of partitions,
we'll type in 'l'.
And then we'll see that partition 83
has typed 83 as Linux,
but we want this to be a swap partition.
So, 82 represents Linux swap.
So we'll enter in 82 here.
Let's continue on with the next partition.
'n' for a new partition.
This is going to be a primary partition.
And the default is 2,
so this is our second partition,
or I'll set that default again.
Now we wanted the 20 GB partition,
so I'll do '+20G'.
And then, finally we want
the third partition,
we'll just do another one here with 'n'.
Primary again.
Three.
And this will set it to the
very end of the disk
if we accept the default,
so we want the remaining space
in this third partition,
so I'm just going to hit enter.
To view the current partition table,
we'll just use 'p',
we'll just make sure we have everything
set the way we want to
and you can see that they have STP1,
our 1st primary partition,
is of type 82, Linux swap,
and there are other 2 partitions on Linux.
So we'll go ahead and accept this
and we'll write this to
disk with the 'w' command.
Let's create a GPT partition
table with fdisk.
I'll do this on '/dev/sdc'.
Just 'p' to print it,
showing that there is no partition table
currently assigned here.
And to create a GPT partition table,
we'll just do 'g'.
And then to create a new partition,
we will type in the letter 'n' for new.
And you can see there - the partition
number ranges from 1 to 128
and we're going to just create 1.
And we're going to accept the defaults here
just use the first available sector
in the last sector here,
we're just going to use one big partition.
And we'll print, and then you can see
that we have one Linux partition
that takes up the entire disk.
Go ahead and write that with 'w'.
And we should be done.
Now if we look back at
our 'fdisk -l' command,
we should see all these partitions
that we've just created.
/dev/sdb has the 3 partitions we created,
/dev/sda is unmodified,
it still has the 2 partitions
it had when we started.
And /dev/sdc here has one big partition.

--- Disk Management - Part Three - File Systems ---

In this lesson you'll learn
how to create a file system,
as well as how to mount and
unmount that file system.
You'll also learn how to prepare swap space
for use by your Linux system.
Next, you'll learn about
the file system table
and how to control spare devices
mounted on a Linux system.
Finally, you'll learn about
disk UUIDs and labels
and how you can use them in
conjunction with the file system table.
Before a partition can be
used by a Linux system,
it will need a file system.
The extended file system, or ext for short,
was created specifically for Linux.
It was soon replaced by ext2,
the second extended file system.
Since then ext3 and
ext4 have been released.
These series of file systems
are the most commonly
used file systems on Linux systems
and are often found as the default
file systems on Linux distributions.
If you have special needs
you should research
some of the other popular file
systems available on Linux.
These include ReiserFS, JFS,
XFS, ZFS, and Btrfs.
To create a file system
use the 'mkfs' command.
The format is 'mkfs -t TYPE DEVICE'.
The TYPE will be a file system type
such as ext3, or xfs.
The DEVICE is the path to the partition
on which you want the
file system to reside.
Here is how you would
create an ext3 file system
on the second partition of the sdb disk.
You enter 'mkfs -t ext3 /dev/sdb2'.
To create an ext4 file system, just run
'mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdb3'.
The mkfs utility is actually a front-end
for the various file system builders.
Running 'mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdb3'
is actually the same as running
'mkfs.ext4 /dev/sdb3'.
If you want to see the options available
for a specific file system
consult the man page for the given command.
For example, you can run 'man mkfs.xfs'
to find more information about
creating XFS file systems.
To mount a partition use
the 'mount' command
followed by the path to the device
and then the directory where
you want to mount that device.
For example, to mount /dev/sdb3 on /opt,
run 'mount /dev/sdb3 /opt'.
You can use the mount command
without any arguments
to see what is currently mounted.
But be aware that mount will not
only show physical file systems,
but also virtual file systems.
These virtual file systems are
often RAM based file systems
that provide ways to interact
with other parts of the system.
If you want a shorter list of mount points
that contain storage devices,
use the 'df' command.
You can think of the df command
as the disk-free command
as it reports file system usage.
Be aware that manually
mounting a file system
from the command line will not cause
it to persist between reboots.
In order to make the mount permanent,
you will need to add an
entry in the '/etc/fstab' file.
To unmount a partition,
use the 'umount' command
followed by either the device path
or the mount point.
To unmount '/opt', you could
run 'umount /opt'
or 'umount /dev/sdb3'.
Instead of creating a file
system and mounting it,
with swap you create a
swap area and enable it.
To prepare the swap area for use,
use the 'mkswap' command
followed by the path to the partition.
To enable the swap partition,
use the 'swapon' command followed
by the path to the device.
To see the swap devices in use,
run 'swapon -s'.
The /etc/fstab file controls where
devices are mounted on a Linux system
and what options to use when
mounting those devices.
Each entry consists of one line
with six columns.
If a line starts with #, it's a
comment and it's ignored.
The six columns are the device,
the mount point,
the file system type, options, dump,
and file system check order.
Each of these columns is separated
by a space or a tab.
Here is an example of a fstab file.
The device column contains
a path to a device,
a label for a device,
or a UUID (universally unique identifier)
of a device.
The mount point column determines
where the device will be mounted.
The third column contains
the file system type.
Use the same type here are as you did
when you created the file system
with the mkfs command.
The mount option column is used to specify
which options to mount
the file system with.
The keyword defaults represents
the default mount options
for the file system type.
Consult the man page for fstab, \
the mount command,
and the file system type you are
using for a full list of options.
To specify multiple options,
separate them with a comma.
It's important not use spaces
before or after the commas.
The dump column is used
by the dump utility.
If it contains a 0, dump will
ignore this file system.
If it contains a 1, dump will
backup this file system.
You can safely ignore this column
if you do not use the dump utility
to perform backups.
Today, dump is rarely used for backups.
The final column is the fsck column.
It is used by the fsck program at boot time
to determine if a file system
is to be checked
and if so, in what order to check them.
Valid values are 0, 1, and 2.
If this column contains a 0,
fsck will skip checking this file system.
File systems with a value of 1
will be checked first,
and then the file systems with
a value of 2 will be checked next.
For file systems that you want
to have checked,
it's a best practice to
set the / file system to 1
with the remaining file systems set to 2.
Let's look at this example of fstab file.
The first entry ensures that /dev/sda2
will get mounted on /.
Its file system type is xfs
and it uses the default options.
Since the dump column
contains a 0,
the dump utility will not
backup this file system.
The value in the fsck column is 1,
so this file system will get checked
first during the boot up process.
The second entry ensures that /dev/sda1
will be used as a swap device.
For swap devices, use the 'swap' keyword
as the mount point and
the file system type.
The dump and fsck columns are set to 0
as swap space does not need
to be backed up or checked.
This fstab uses UUIDs and l
abels in the device column.
The device with the UUID that starts with
'dbae4', will be mounted on /.
The device with the label 'opt',
will be mounted on '/opt'
and the /dev/sda1 device
will be used as swap space.
To view labels and UUIDs,
you can use the 'lsblk –f' command.
If you are only interested in the UUIDs,
you can use the 'blkid' command.
Each file system type will have a utility
that you can use to create or modify
the label for the file system.
For ext file systems you can
use the 'e2label' command.
Simply pass the path to the device
as the first argument
and the label as the second argument.
Here is how to add the label 'opt'
to the /dev/sdb3 device.
Run 'e2label /dev/sdb3 opt'.
In this lesson, you learned
how to create file systems
with the 'mkfs' command.
You learned how to mount those
file systems with the 'mount' command.
Once those file systems are mounted,
you learned how to view the disk usage
with the 'df' command.
Next, you learned that you
can use the 'umount' command
to unmount file systems.
You learned how to prepare swap space
using the 'mkswp' command
and how to enable it with 'swapon'.
You also learned about the fstab file
and how you can mount
a device by using it's path,
it's UUID, or it's label.
Finally, you learned how to display
and create labels for devices.

--- Introduction to the Logical Volume Manager (LVM) ---

LLVM stands for Logical Volume Manager.
The logical volume manager introduces extra layers of abstraction between the disks or storage devices
presented to a Linux system and the file systems placed on those disks or storage devices.
Before we get into those layers of abstraction and how to use them, let's talk about why you would
want to use LLVM in the first place.
By the way, I'm going to be teaching from slides for the next minute or two so that you understand
the concepts behind LLVM.
And then I'm going to open up a terminal and start demonstrating exactly how to use LLVM.
One benefit of using LLVM is that you can create file systems that extend across multiple storage devices.
With LLVM, you can aggregate multiple storage devices into a single logical volume.
LLVM allows you to expand or shrink file systems in real time while the data remains online and fully
accessible.
Without LLVM, you would have to reformat and re partition the underlying storage devices.
Of course, you would have to take the file system offline to perform that work with LLVM.
You eliminate that problem.
LLVM also allows you to easily migrate data from one storage device to another while that data is online.
For example, if you want to deploy newer, faster or more resilient storage, you can just move your
existing data from the current storage devices to the new ones while your system is still active.
Instead of using abstract disk numbers, you can use human readable device names of your choosing.
Instead of wondering what data is on forge slash dev forge slash SDB, you can name your data with a
descriptive name.
With LLVM, you can stripe data across two or more disks.
This can dramatically increase throughput by allowing your system to read data in parallel if you want
to increase fault tolerance and reliability.
Use LLVM to mirror your data so that you always have more than one copy of your data.
Using LLVM mirroring prevents single points of failure.
If one storage device fails, your data can be accessed via another storage device.
You can then fix or replace the failed storage device to restore your mirror all without downtime.
LLVM gives you the ability to create point in time snapshots of your file systems.
This can be perfect for when you need consistent backups.
For example, you could pause, writes to a database, take a snapshot of the logical volume where that
database data resides, then resume rights to that database.
That way, you ensure your data is in a known good state when you perform the backup of that snapshot.

--- LVM: Layers of Abstraction ---

As I said at the beginning of this lesson, the logical volume manager introduces extra layers of abstraction
between the storage devices and the file systems placed on those storage devices.
The first layer of abstraction are physical volumes.
These are storage devices that are used by LLVM.
The name is a bit of a legacy name though.
To be clear, these storage devices do not have to be physical, they just have to be made available
to the Linux operating system.
In other words, as long as Linux sees the device as a block storage device, it can be used as a physical
volume, also known as a PV physical hard drives, IE scuzzy devices, sand disks and so on can be PVS.
You can allocate an entire storage device as a PV, or you can partition a storage device and use just
that one partition as a PV.
The next layer of abstraction is the volume group.
A volume group is made up of one or more physical volumes.
You can think of a volume group as a pool of storage.
If you want to increase the size of the pool, you simply add more PVS.
Keep in mind that you can have different types of storage in the same volume group if you want.
For example, you could have some PVS that are backed by hard disks and other PVS that are backed by
sand disks.
We'll talk about how this can come in handy when performing data migrations later in this lesson.
The next layer of abstraction is the logical volume layer.
Logical volumes are created from a volume group.
File systems are then created on top of those logical volumes.
Without LLVM, you would create a file system on a disk partition, but with LLVM you create a file
system on a logical volume.
As long as there is free space in the volume group, logical volumes can be extended.
You can also shrink logical volumes to reclaim unused space if you want, but typically in practice,
you'll find yourself extending logical volumes.

--- Creating Physical Volumes (PVs), Volume Groups (VGs), and Logical Volumes (LVs) ---

At a high level, the process for creating a logical volume is this First you create one or more physical
volumes or PVS.
Then you create a volume group from those of one or more physical volumes.
And then finally you can create one or more logical volumes from that volume group.
Because we're going to be working on system administration type of task that will require root privileges.
I'm just going to switch to the root user first.
Before you can create a physical volume, you need to know what storage devices are available.
The easiest way to do that is with the LLVM disk scan command.
This command shows you all the storage devices that have the ability to be used with LLVM.
At least one of these storage devices is currently being used to host the root file system, but the
output we see here doesn't really tell us which one that is.
We could guess, but let's don't do that.
Let's find out some more information about our block devices with the LSB K Command.
Here.
You can see that SDA one is actually mounted on Slash, also known as the root file system.
If you want to display full pass to the devices shown with LSB OC use the dash p option.
Now it's clear that SDA one is really forward slash def forward slash Asda a one.
We can further confirm that by using the DF command which shows disk space usage.
I like using the dash h option to force df to display sizes in a human readable format.
Let me do that here.
And you can see here that Dev SCA one is mounted on slash.
So LLVM disk scan is a great way to see what disk are available.
You can also use the disk dash l command to see the storage that's attached to your Linux system.
Some of that data scrolled off your screen, but you can see desc for dev SD is 100 gigabytes and the
next stands that you can see Dev SD A is ten gigabytes and it shows delta one is a partition that's
of a Linux type and so on.
Now personally, I prefer the LLVM disk scan output, but again, there are multiple ways to view the
attached storage devices.
To create a PV of physical volume.
We use the PV, create command and give it the path to the storage device.
So we know Dev SDA is taken but Dev SDB and so on are free.
So let's create a PV on dev SDB.
The PV create command initializes the disk for use by the logical volume manager.
You can view the list of PVS with the PVS or PVS command.
We can use our PV to create our VG, which is a volume group.
I'm going to pretend that I'm creating this volume group for an application, so I'm going to name it
VG Underscore App.
I like to start the name of all my volume groups with VG underscore, but this is not required.
You can name your volume groups anything you want, but I like the convention of VG underscore, so
we'll use VG create the name of the volume group follows the VG Create Command, which is VG Underscore
App.
Then we have to provide at least one physical volume and the PV we just created is dev SD B, so we'll
hit that.
Now at the bottom of your screen you can see VG Underscore App was successfully created as a volume
group and we can view our volume groups by using the VG command, VG s and press enter.
So here this output shows us that we have one physical volume that's under the PV column and the size
of this volume group is 50 G or 50 gigabytes and we have 50 gig free in that volume group.
If we look at our PVS with the PVS command, we should now see what volume group our physical volume
belongs to.
So sure enough, it says Dev SDB belongs to the VG VG Underscore app.
Now that we have a pool of storage and a volume group, we can use that storage to create a logical
volume.
Let's create a logical volume that is 20 gigabytes in size and name it LV underscore data.
Again, I like the convention of LV underscore as part of the name of the logical volume, but you don't
have to do that if you don't want to.
So the command to create a logical volume is LV create and we need to give it a size.
So we do that with a capital L and then we can specify our size in a human readable format.
Here I'll use 20 G for 20 gigabytes.
If you wanted it to be 100 megabytes, you would specify 100 m.
If you wanted to do it in kilobytes, you could do.
K or terabytes.
T and so on.
Anyway, so we're going to use 20 G for 20 gigabytes.
Next, we need to name our logical volume, and we do that with a dash in option and then provide the
name, like I said, I want to name it of underscore data.
And then finally what we need to provide is the name of the volume group from which this logical volume
will be created.
And that volume group is VG underscore app in this demonstration.
Just like we can view physical volumes with the PVS command and volume groups of the voice command.
I bet you can guess how we can view logical volumes.
That's right.
We'll use the LVS command.
By the way, there's another way to view your logical volumes, and that is with the LVT display command.
So let's do that here.
The reason you would want to use the LRV display command is that it provides a different output.
For example, notice the LVT path.
I'll highlight it here at the top.
It's forward slash dev forge slash VG underscore app forge slash live underscore data.
Now that's the format for it's less dev followed by the volume group name followed by the logical volume
name.
It's easy to tell that the live underscore data logical volume belongs to the VG Underscore App Volume
Group.
For example.
Now that we have a logical volume, we can treat it like we would any normal disk partition.
So let's put a file system on our logical volume and then mount that file system.
So we'll use MKV FFS to create a file system, we'll do the type of x DT four and then supply a path.
It created the file system on our logical volume.
Now let's create our mount point.
Next we mount that logical volume in the file system on that mount point.
So we give mount the path here.
And then the path to our mount point.
So here you can see that slash data has 20 gigabytes available because that's the size that we created
our logical volume.
Now let's create a place to store the actual application files for this fictitious application here.
Let's call its logical volume lrv underscore app, and let's give it five gigabyte of space.
Again capital l size in a human readable format.
Five G for five gigabytes will give it a name with the dash in option, and then finally specify the
volume group from which we want to create this logical volume.
So if we run the LVS command, we can now see we have LRV underscore app at five gigabyte in size and
lrv underscore data at 20 gig size.
Again, we just treat this logical volume like any other partition and we can put a file system on it
and mount it.
So let's do that here now.
Gm-csf s t x t for dev vg app.
Now let's create a mount point for that.
Again.
Like I said, we just treat this like any other partition.
But this time let's put it in the ZFS tab so that it gets mounted at boot time.
So let's do this.
EDIT Let's see.
FS tab.
So the first column in the PHS tab is a path to the storage device and that device is dev VG underscore
app, LV Underscore app since we're using logical volumes and then we need to supply a mount point,
we're going to mount it on forward slash app file system type, any special settings we want.
And we don't really want any special settings, we'll just use the defaults.
And then these last two columns here.
Going to save my changes.
And then now I can just mount that like I would any other file system here mount ford slash app mount
or read the ZFS tab in no to Mount Ford slash dev forge slash avg underscore app forge slash lv underscore
app to forward slash app.
There.
You can see it mounted there and we can even see all of our data here with def dash h.
By the way, you can access your logical volume through the device mapper path as shown here in the
DF output.
For example, Ford slash def ford slash VG underscore app, Ford slash LV underscore app can be accessed
via ford slash dev ford slash mapper XG Underscore app, dash lrv, underscore app.
So let's just look at all these devices here.
So that particular path is assembly to DM Dash one.
Let's look at the map or path.
It points to the exact same place, which is Dev.
DM one Be aware however, that the forward slash def forwards slash dm dash one might change between
reboots, so don't refer to it directly when mounting or configuring the ZFS tab and so on.
Again, use the path as displayed in the LVT display output which is forward slash dev forward, slash
the volume group name and finally forward slash the logical volume name.
So let's look at this here v display and the LV path is forward slash dev four slash VG underscore app
forward slash lrv underscore app.
So that is the path we want to use.
So let's see how much space we have left and our volume group and we can do that with the Vgs command.
This output says we have one PV, two elves and that we have 25 gigabytes of free space.
Let's also pretend that our fictitious application generates logs and we want to keep those log files
separate from the other data.
So we need to create a logical volume for those logs.
If we use DASH Capital L 25 G to specify the size, we are going to get an error.
So let me show you that and then I'll explain to you why we get that error.
So we'll do this.
Create Dash Capital L 25 gig, we'll name it LVT Underscore Logs and the VG App Volume Group.
We're about to wade off into the weeds and dive into some very fine details.
If you're more of a big picture type of person, just bear with me for the next couple of minutes.
But if you'd like to know every single detail, then you're going to love the next couple of minutes.
So there is yet another layer of abstraction that we haven't yet talked about.
Well, actually, it's two layers of abstraction.
So each of our logical volumes is actually divided up into Liz, which stands for logical extents.
Or if we look at it from the other direction, a collection of logical extents makes up a logical volume.
This is how LLVM allows us to expand or shrink a logical volume.
The logical volume manager just changes the number of underlying logical extents for that logical volume.
Anyway, to view information about these logical extents, use the LVT display command.
Look at the line that begins with current L.
E.
These are the number of logical extents that comprise this logical volume.
That number is 1280.
You can use the dash im option 12 display to show a map of the logical volumes.
And let's do that here now.
So you stash M and this map view tells us that the logical extents for the LV underscore app reside
on the dev SDB disk, just like an LRV is divided into Li e, a PV is divided into pieces which stand
for physical extents.
So there's this 1 to 1 mapping of logical extents to physical extents.
Now let's look at the map from the view of the disk using the PV display dash RM command.
Physical extents zero through 5119 belong to the LV underscore data logical volume and they correspond
to the zero through 5119 logical extents of that logical volume.
Now physical extents 5120 through 6399 belong to the LV Underscore App Logical Volume, and they correspond
to the zero through 1279 logical extents of that logical volume.
Finally, we see P 6402 12,798 are unused.
This is actually the space we want to use for our new logical volume.
If we back up just a bit, we can see that the size of each of the pieces and leaves is four megabytes.
That's on the p e size line.
Just below the size line is the total number of physical extents, which for this physical volume is
12,799.
Now, if we were to do the math on that, which would be four times 12,799, we would end up with 51,196
megabytes, which is actually four megabytes shy of 50 gigabytes.
You'll also notice on the PV size line a message that reads Not usable for megabytes.
Now the reason about that four megabyte space being unusable is due to LLVM metadata, the alignment
of disk sectors and so on.
So more or less you can just think about this a little bit of data as a rounding error.
This little bit of data is really insignificant in the grand scheme of things.
The most important thing here is to know how to get around this error we saw when we try to create our
new logical volume.
Now let's go back to that of create command and display that error again.
So now you know why this error message is being given and exactly what it means.
We're asking for 25 gigabytes of space, which works out to 6404 megabyte extents.
But we only have 6399 extents available to allocate, by the way, to be thorough.
You can see the number of extents available in the volume group by using the VG Display Command.
So let's do that really quickly.
On the free p slash size line, we see that we have 6399 extents available and our volume group, which
is about 25 gigabytes of space.
At this point, we can use the lowercase l option to the of create command to specify the size and number
of extents.
Now let me show you that here.
L We create dash dash help to get some help.
And let's look at these two lines.
So what we've been using is the Dash capital L option and then using a human readable size.
Now, the other way, as I just said, was the dash lowercase l option, which allows you to specify
a number of extents so we could run LVT, create dash lowercase L 6399 extents and do it that way.
Or we could use a percentage.
So one common pattern is to use 100% of the remaining free space like this so we can use 100% free.
And then we continue with our command.
So again, if you look back up here, you can use a number and then percentage of the volume group or
free space.
So I'm going to use 100% free space that we have left and then continue my command like we were doing
earlier.
LRV underscore logs will be the name and then of course we specify the volume group and hit enter.
So that command worked.
Now we can look at our logical volumes with the LVS command.
So that's exactly how you can squeeze every possible bit of space out of your volume group and put it
into a logical volume.

--- Extending Volume Groups and Logical Volumes ---

Let's say that the LRV underscore data, logical volume is getting full and we need to extend it.
If we look at our volume group, we'll see that we've already allocated all of our space to the existing
logical volumes.
So we run Vgs and we get V free equals zero.
And this particular case, we need to extend the volume group itself before we can extend the logical
volume within that volume group.
So let's repeat our initial process of looking for disks with the LLVM disk scan command.
So we already know Dev SDA is taken.
We just use Dev SDB and it actually says, hey, this is an LLVM physical volume that's in use, so
it looks like we have SCSI, D and E available.
So let's use SDC and let's PV create that.
Now we can add this physical volume to our volume group with the VG Extend Command.
We'll give it the name of our volume group and then the path to the disk.
We want to add or excuse me the physical volume that we want to add to our volume group.
Now, if we look at the Vgs command, we can see we have two PV under the PV column, two physical volumes
and at the end we have V free of 50 gigabytes, which means we have 50 gigabytes of free space now.
So if we look at our PVS, we can now see that SDB and Sdhc both belong to VG Underscore App Volume
Group.
We can also see that one PV is completely full and the other PV is completely free.
Now, before we extend our logical volume into this free space, let's look at the space from the file
system level.
So let's do DF dash h on our data file system here.
So it currently shows that the file system size is 20 gigabytes.
Now let's use the extend command to add five gigabytes of space to that logical volume.
In addition to increasing the size of the logical volume, we also need to grow the file system on that
logical volume to fill up this new space.
And that's what we'll be using.
The dash are option four, so we'll use LRV, extend dash capital L plus five G.
Now this plus syntax means add whatever amount of space we supply after it to the size of our logical
volume.
If we didn't use plus, we would have to specify the exact end resulting size.
I'd like to use this plus syntax because that way I don't have to think about it.
I'm just thinking, hey, I need to add some more disk space.
How much more?
Let's add five gigabytes, so I'll just use plus five G.
It's pretty simple that way.
Like I stated just a second ago, we need the dash r option to perform the resize of the file system
that resides on that logical volume.
And then finally we give the path to the logical volume itself.
So we're going to do this on LRV, underscore data.
So if we read the resulting message, it says the logical volume was changed from 20 gigabytes in size
to 25 gigabytes in size, and it actually shows the number of extents that it needed to do that.
And then right below that, you see where the file system itself was extended.
So now let's look at the LVS command here and we see that the logical volume size did in fact increase
by five gigabytes.
So let's actually look at this.
The file system level def dash h of data.
The file system also shows that it's 25 gigabytes in size.
And so that's really what you want the file system and the logical volume to be the same size.
By the way, if you forget to make LVT, extend, perform the resize of the file system with the dash
option, you'll have to do that after the fact.
So let me just demonstrate that it's a very easy and common mistake to make.
So let's do this again.
We'll use our LRV extent command, but this time we'll leave off the dash our option.
So we're adding another five gigabytes to this logical volume.
So it says it went from 25 to 30 gigabytes.
We can confirm with the V.
S command and it does show 30 gigabytes in size there.
However, if we look at it from the file systems perspective, it's going to be what it was, 25 gigabytes.
The file system didn't change just the logical volume.
To fix this, you'll have to use a resize tool for the specific file system that you're working with.
For file systems, that tool is resized to FS and we just give it the path to the underlying device,
which is a logical volume here in our case.
So we'll just use resize.
To assess.
And then our path here.
Now let's look at the fall system layer here.
Now the file system has caught up to the size of our logical volume.
It's showing 30 gigabytes.
Let's look at the map for this particular logical volume.
Let's use of display dash for map, and then we can just isolate one logical volume by providing its
path here.
If you look at the bottom of this output, we see that some of the extents live on dev SDB while the
other extents live on Dev.
SDC Again, this is what makes LLVM so powerful and flexible.
You have one file system that actually spans multiple storage devices.
That way, the file system sizes aren't limited to disk sizes.

--- Mirroring Logical Volumes ---

Just to demonstrate that you can have more than one volume group per Linux system, I'm going to create
another VG called VG Underscore Safe, and I'm just going to pretend that I need the data stored in
this volume group to be very safe.
Hence the name of course.
Vgs are made up of PV, so let's create a couple of physical volumes for our new volume group.
Again, we'll use our old process here of LLVM disk scan, see what's available.
PSD and SD are available.
So let's go ahead and create those.
Up until this point, we've just been creating one physical volume at a time, but you can give the
PV command a list of storage devices.
So let's just go ahead and give it both disks at the same time.
Let's let's check out our physical volumes with the PvZ command.
And it shows we have those two physical volumes that aren't yet assigned to a volume group, just like
we can provide a list of devices to PV create.
We can also give VG create a list of PVS that we want in the volume group.
So let's do this.
VG Create the name.
VG Underscore Safe.
And then the path to our PVS.
Now if we look at the Vgs command, we see VG underscore SAFE has two physical volumes and no logical
volumes at this point because we haven't created any.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
Let's create a mirrored logical volume.
Now, this will ensure that an exact copy of the data will be stored on two different storage devices.
And we do this with the LVT create command.
But this time the only slight difference is dash m one.
So we tell it how many additional copies of our data we want and we want one additional copy.
So that means our data will be stored on two disks or have a total of two copies.
Again, we'll just give it a size human readable, five gigabytes name of underscore secret.
So let's pretend this is our company secret data and then we'll give it the volume group name of VG
safe.
So let's look at the command.
And actually it kind of scrolled off to the side.
But you can see here in this copy Sync column that it's currently 18.75.
And let me just run this command another time or two here.
So that copy percent sync column indicates if the mirror is synched or not.
Now, if it's at 100%, then all the data is synchronized.
So let me run this command again.
At this point, we have exact copies of our data.
If you were to replace a failed disk, for example, the mirror would need to rethink the data from
the existing copy to the new disk.
While that copy was in progress, the percent would be less than 100.
And then when that finished syncing the data to that new device, it would be at 100%.
Let's look at the LVS command with a dash, a option which stands for all.
The logical volume we created is actually raid one.
So a mirror and raid one are the exact same thing.
Anyway, when you create a raid logical volume, LLVM creates a metadata sub volume that is one extent
and size for every data or parity sub volume in the array.
In this example, creating a two way raid one array results in two metadata sub volumes and those are
LV underscore secrets r meta zero and LV underscore secrets underscore are meta underscore one and two
data sub volumes which are LV Underscore secrets underscore our image underscore zero as well as our
image underscore one.
Now let's look at the map with PV display PV display dash m at the bottom of your screen, you see that
LV underscore secrets underscore are meta underscore one and LVT secrets are image underscore one reside
on the forward slash def forward slash SD disks.
It scrolled off the top of your screen, but the output above that is for the dev SD disk and that's
where the LVT secrets are met is zero and LVT secrets are image zero live.
To be clear, we operate on this logical volume using the name we gave it.
For example, let's create a file system on that logical volume and mount it and we'll be using the
name that we gave it.
So we'll do gm-csf s t xt four and then the path of VG safe, which is volume group name and then the
logical volume name that we gave in.
Okay.
Let's create ourselves a point here.
And let's mount our logical volume.
So we write to Dev VG, underscore safe LV, underscore secrets and let the logical volume manager handle
all the mirroring and all the sub volumes and all that metadata and everything else.
We just use this file system like any other and we use the name that we gave the logical volume manager.
So again, anything we were to write in Forward Slash Secrets will actually be written to two underlying
storage devices without us having to do anything extra.

--- Removing Logical Volumes, Physical Volumes, and Volume Groups ---

Before we wrap up this lesson, I want to show you how do you undo your changes or how to delete logical
volumes of volume groups and physical volumes?
First, let's start out by mounting the file system that we just mounted.
So we'll mount secrets here.
And now we can remove the underlying logical volume.
The SS Do you really want to remove and discard all this data that resides here?
And we're going to say why?
Four Yes.
So by the way, once you do that, your data that was on that file system or on that logical volume
is gone.
If you want to remove a PV from a VG, use the VG reduce command.
Now first, let's show that we have two PVS in our VG.
So in the PV column we have to for our VG underscore safe volume group.
So let's do this VG reduce.
The name of the volume group and let's give it dev SD.
Now if we look at it, we only have one physical volume and VG underscore safe.
Now that PV that we just removed is free to be used in another volume group if we wanted to.
Or if you don't want to use that disk with LLVM, you can free it up or remove it from the logical volume
manager with a PV, remove command and let's do that here now.
So now if we look at our ppvs, we do not see dev SD anywhere in our list.
Let's finish destroying the VG underscore safe volume group with the VG Remove Command.
So if we run our command v safe is not there anymore because we just removed it.
And if we run our PvZ command we can see that that one final disk that was in that volume group is now
freed up to be used by another volume group.
There's no volume group in the VG column beside Dev SD.
Now if we're done with that disk, we can PV remove it like we did the other one.
So we can do PV, remove it, dev SD run PVS.
And then of course that is not listed in LLVM.

--- Migrating Data from One Storage Device to Another ---

Earlier I mentioned how easy it is to move data from one storage device to another with LLVM.
Let's say that the storage device attached to our system at Ford's Dev Forge SD is a faster and has
more space.
Let's say we want to move the data that currently resides on Dev SDB to that new disk.
To do that, we'll just add Dev SD to the volume group and then migrate the data over.
So of course we run PV create to initialize our disk dev SD.
And then now we add that to our volume group with the VG Extend Command.
Then give it the path here.
So now if we run the PvZ command, we have three physical volumes in this one volume group.
Finally to perform the data migration, we just use the PVV move command to move all that data from
Dev SDB to Dev SD and that's exactly how you use the command.
You just give it the source physical volume.
And then the destination physical volume.
So here it's starting to do its work.
It'll be 0%, 1% and so on.
This is going to take a while, so I'll just edit the weighting out for you.
Once the PV move command is complete, all the data that used to live on Dev SDB now lives on Dev SD
and the whole time this was happening, any logical volumes and file systems that were on Dev SDB remained
online and available throughout this entire process.
There's no need to take an outage for this migration of data.
The PV MOVE Command completed and it shows that the data was moved at 100%.
And so now let's look at the PVS with our PVS command.
So here we can see on the very first line of SDB that we have the entire disk free.
So it's P size 50 and P three is 50 gigabytes.
So it looks like that our data has been moved off that volume.
But let's take a closer look with PV display.
Here we can see that the allocated p e is zero.
There are no physical extents in use.
Now that we're done with this disk, we can remove it from the volume group with VG reduce.
And finally we can remove it.
Notice that our physical volumes are of different sizes.
You don't have to use the exact same underlying devices with the same sizes and the same volume group.
For example, you can mix and match your storage as you want or as you need.
Before we wrap things up, let's review what you've learned.

--- Logical Volume Manager - Summary ---

In this lesson, you learn that LLVM adds layers of abstraction between storage devices and file systems.
These layers of abstraction include physical volumes, volume groups and logical volumes.
You also learn how to configure LLVM starting with a PV, create command to create physical volumes.
The VG create command to configure volume groups and the LVT create command to create logical volumes.
From there, you treated the logical volumes like you would any other disk partition.
You created a file system on the logical volume and mounted it like any other file system.
From there, you learned how to extend logical volumes using the LRV Extend command when you needed
to add more capacity to your volume group.
You learned how to do that with a VG extend command.
You also learned how to create mirrored logical volumes by using the dash RM option to the lrv create
command.
Finally, you learn how to remove logical volumes with the LRV, remove command, remove physical volumes
from volume groups of the VG, reduce command, remove volume groups with VG.
Remove and remove physical volumes with a PV.
Remove command.

--- Managing Users and Groups - Part One ---

In this lesson you'll learn
how to manage users and groups,
you'll learn where user
and group information
is stored at on a Linux system
and you'll learn how to add,
delete and modify accounts and groups.
Linux is a multiuser operating system.
Not only can multiple accounts
exist on the system
but those accounts can be
used at the same time.
Each account consists of a user name
and a unique number called the UID,
short for user ID.
Also each account has a default group
to which it belongs,
some comments associated
with that account
a shell to execute when the
user logs into the system
and a home directory.
All this information is stored
in the 'etc' password file.
The first entry in the etc password
file is the root account.
The password file contains different
fields of information,
each separated by a colon (:).
The first field contains a username.
The next field contains the password.
Next, you'll find the user ID.
Next is the default group ID.
Next you'll find comments.
The sixth field in the password file
is the location of the
accounts home directory.
And the last field in
the password file
is the shell to execute when that
user logs into the system.
In the example of the root account,
you can see that the username is root.
In the password field, there is an 'x',
this actually means that
the encrypted password
is stored in the etc shadow file
and we'll be talking about the
shadow file in just a moment.
The user ID for the root account is zero.
The default group ID for the
root account is also zero.
The comment for the root account
is simply the word root
and you can see that the
home directory is '/root',
the shell associated with
the root account is bash.
Let's look at another entry
in the etc password file.
This is for the Joe account.
In this case, the username is Joe,
like the root account, the password
field contains an 'x'.
The user ID or UID is 1000.
The group ID is also 1000.
The comment in this case is
the full name of the person
that's using the account,
which is Joe Henderson.
The home directory is '/home/joe'
and the shell is '/bin/bash'.
Even though Linux supports usernames
up to 32 characters in length,
it is customary to keep usernames
to 8 or fewer characters.
When using usernames longer
than 8 characters
you will run in some situations
where the UID is displayed
in place of the username.
For example, when looking at
the output of the 'ps' command.
Also know the usernames are case sensitive.
Even though uppercase letters
are allowed in usersnames,
by convention usernames are
in all lower case letters.
Digits are also allowed in usernames
but avoid using special characters.
Historically encrypted
password information
was stored in the /etc/passwd file
following the username.
However the /etc/passwd file is
readable by anyone on the system,
so storing password information,
even encrypted,
is a security risk.
Now, by default, the encrypted
password information
is stored in /etc/shadow
which is only readable by
the superuser account.
The UID is a unique number.
The root account is always UID 0.
Accounts meant to be used
by the system
typically have UIDs lower than 1000.
This is configurable however by
updating the /etc/login.defs file.
The group ID, or GID, listed in the
password file entry for the account
is the account's default group.
When a user creates a file,
that file will belong to
the user's default group.
If a user wants to create
files using another group
they can use the 'newgrp' command
to change to a new group before
creating the files.
The comment field typically
contains the user's real name
or a description of what the
account is used for.
You'll sometimes hear this field
refered to as the GECOS field.
This is a historical hold over
from the early years of Unix.
When a user logs into the system
they are placed into their home directory
listed in the passwd file.
If this directory
does not exist they
will be placed into
the root directory.
The shell will be executed
when the user logs
into the system with their account.
You can see a list of installed
shells on your Linux system
by looking at the '/etc/shells' file.
Whatever is listed in the shell field
will be executed upon login
even if the program is
not actually a shell.
For example, you may see
'/usr/sbin/nologin' or
'/bin/false' in the shell field
for certain accounts.
This ensures that no one can use
those accounts interactively.
You can also use the shell field
to execute a program
when a user logs into the system.
For example, you could force users
into a menu driven application
that only allows them access
to certain actions.
Like the '/etc/passwd' file,
the '/etc/shadow' file contains a
series of fields separated by a colon.
The first field is the username.
The second field contains
the encrypted password.
The third field is the number of days
since January 1, 1970
since the password has been changed.
The fourth field is the number of days
before the password can be changed.
The fifth field is the number of days
after which the password must be changed.
If this field contains 99999,
the user never has to
change their password.
The sixth field is the number of days
to warn the user that their
password will expire.
The seventh field is the number of days
after the password has expired
that the account is disabled.
The eighth field is the number of days
since Janary 1, 1970
that an account has been disabled.
The ninth field is reserved
for future use.
Now that you know where account
information is stored,
let's create an account using
the 'useradd' command.
Adding accounts requires
superuser privileges,
so make sure that you are using
the root account or sudo.
The format of the 'useradd' command is
'useradd' followed by 'options'
and finally the username.
The most commonly used options
for the useradd command include
'-c' followed by a comment,
'-m' to create a user's home directory,
'-s' to provide the path
to the user's shell.
In this example, an account is
created for Grant Stewart.
His username is grant and
his shell is bash.
Next, let's assign the account a password.
To do this, use the 'passwd' command
followed by the username.
You'll be prompted to enter
a password for the user
and to confirm that password.
Here is the entry for the account in
the '/etc/passwd' file and
the '/etc/shadow' file.
In this example, Grant's UID is 1000,
his GID is also 1000,
his home directory is '/home/grant'
and his shell is '/bin/bash'.
Other options for the useradd
command include the following.
'-g' to specify default group
for the account.
'-G' followed by a list of groups.
This adds the account to
those additional groups.
Let's create an account
for Eddie Harris.
His login will be 'eharris'
and his default group will be 'sales'.
We will also make him a member
of the 'projectx' group as well.
Not every account on a Linux system
is meant to be used by a person.
Some accounts exist to run
applications or perform system functions.
Some common examples of this include
accounts that run web server processes,
database processes, or some
other application processes.
Let's create an account that
will be used to run
the Apache web server process.
You'll notice that the shell
was set to '/usr/sbin/nologin'.
This is because we don't want someone
to be able to log into the system
using the account.
We also use the '-r' option
which instructs useradd to
create a system account.
Effectivly this means the
account will receive a UID
in the system account range
as defined in '/etc/login.defs'.
In this example, the user
received UID 999.
The home directory was specified
using the '-d' option.
By default, the home directory
for a new account
is created in the '/home' directory.
The actual directory will be
the name of the user account.
So, by default the apache
account's home directory
will be '/home/apache'.
However, since this account is
used by an application
we set the home directory
to the directory
where the application is installed.
Notice that the '-m' option was
not used in this case.
When using the '-m' option the
contents of the skeleton directory,
'/etc/skel', are copied into
the user's home directrory.
The contents of '/etc/skel' usually
include shell configuration files
which are not needed for application
accounts in many instances.
Here are the new options we used
to create this account.
'-r' to create a system account.
'-d' to specify a path to
the home directory.
It's a common practice to
use the same UID
for an account across multiple sytems.
This makes syncing data or
sharing data easier to do
as Linux uses UID's to determine
a file's ownership.
The account name is really for
the sake of us humans.
Let's use the '-u' option to specify
a UID when creating an account.
In this example, we're
creating an account
to be used with the MySQL server
by specifying the UID of 97
by using '-u 97' on the command line.
After we create the account,
you can see that the UID is indeed 97
in the etc password file.
To delete an account use
the 'userdel' command
followed by the username.
If you want to delete the
account's home directory
use the '-r' option.
It also removes the user's mail
spool file if it exists.
In this example, we'll delete
the eharris account,
but leave his home directory intact
since there are some files in there
we want to use later.
We'll also delete the grant account
and remove his home directory.
To update, or modify,
an existing account
use the 'usermod' command.
Here are the most commonly used options
to the usermod command.
You can use '-c' followed by a comment
to change the comment associated
with an account.
You can change the primary group
by specifying '-g' followed
by the group name.
If you want to change the additional
groups the account belongs to,
use 'G' followed by a list of
groups separated by commas.
To change the account shell,
use '-s' followed by a
path to that shell.
Here is an example where
we update the comment
associated with the MySQL account.
I've to re-run the user
'usermod' command
we can see that the change takes
effect in the '/etc/passwd' file.

--- Managing Users and Groups - Part Two ---

Group details are stored
in the '/etc/group' file.
The first entry in the /etc/group file
is the root group.
Here is another sample
entry from /etc/group.
The format of the group file is as follows.
'group_name' followed by password,
followed by a GID, or group ID,
then a list of accounts or
members of that group.
Like the password file, each field
is separated by a colon.
The group name is the human readable name
that you will see when group information
is displayed by commands such as 'ls'.
The password field is used
for privileged groups,
but that functionality is rarely ever used.
When there is an 'x' in this field
it means that shadow group
passwords are being used.
That information is stored
in the '/etc/gshadow' file.
The GID is the group ID.
It is simply a unique number
which represents the group.
The remaining field lists the members
of the group separated by commas.
You might have noticed that the root group
did not contain a list of members.
Remember that the /etc/passwd file
specifies an account's default group.
In the case of the root user
the default GID is 0.
When an account's default GID is listed
in the /etc/passwd file,
that account is in that group
even if it is not listed
in the members field
in the /etc/group file.
To display the groups
that a member belongs to,
pass the username to the groups command.
If you execute the groups command
without supplying a username,
then your group memberships are listed.
To confirm that the root user is
in fact part of the root group,
we can run the command 'groups root'.
To create a group, use the
'groupadd' command.
The most commonly used option
for the groupadd command
is '-g' which allows you
to specify the GID.
In this example, we are
creating two groups.
The first group will let the group command
automatically select the GID.
For the second group we'll specify the GID.
You can see that the web
group received GID 1003,
the 'db' group received GID 2500
since that's what we specified
on the command line.
To delete a group simply pass the
group name to the 'groupdel' command.
To delete the 'db' group,
run 'groupdel db'.
To change the properties
of an existing group
use the 'groupmod' command.
To change the GID, use '-g'
followed by the new GID.
To change the name of the group,
use '-n' followed by the
new name of the group.
In this example we change
the GID of the web group
from 1003 to 1234.
Next we change the name from web to http.
In this demonstration we are going
to create a writers group,
a tv group, and a movie group.
Next we are going to
create some user accounts.
All of these user accounts will
belong to the writers groups,
but only some of them will
belong to the tv group,
while the others will belong
to the movie group.
Let's create the writers group
by using 'groupadd writers'.
We'll do the same thing with 'tv'.
And finally movie.
Now you can see that the last three entries
in the /etc/group file are
the three accounts
we just created.
You'll notice that the GID or
group IDs are incremented
by one automatically by
the groupadd command.
Let's go ahead and create
the first of our users.
We'll put the comment as this user's name.
The primary group will be
writers, so '-g writers'.
The additional group will be 'tv'.
We'll use '-m' to make sure the
home directory gets created.
And will specify shell with '-s'.
In this case we'll give
this user the /bash.
And finally we need to provide
a username or login ID.
So we'll use first initial lastname
in this example.
So I can create a password for this user.
Let's see what groups this user is in.
You can see that the user is
in writers and tv group,
just like we specified
in the useradd command.
Let's go ahead and add another user.
I'll put him in the writer's group as well.
He is a tv writer, so put him in
the television group or tv group.
Create his home directory
and give him the bash shell as well.
Ok. That looks good.
Let's add another user.
Additional group for
this user will be movie.
Okay, you can see that he is
in the writers and movie group.
Let's add one final writer.
'-g' for the primary group,
let's use writers,
'-G' for any additional groups, movie.
We can...
Let's add this person to 2 groups,
I want to add to the movie and tv group.
There you can see that
this user is in three groups.
Now if we look at the /etc/group file,
whoops!
I need to type 3 there.
Now we can see the list of members
in the tv and movie groups,
however we do not see any users
and the members list for writers.
But we know that those
users are in that group
because we typed groups.
'ccuse', you can see that
he's in the writer's group.
Well, if we search for that GID
in the /etc/password file,
we can confirm that each of
these user's primary groups
are 1002, which corresponds
to the GID of the writers group
and that's why they are included
in the writer's group
even though their usernames are
not listed in the /etc/group file.
Account information is stored in the
/etc/passwd and /etc/shadow files.
In addition to a username,
each account consists of a
unique number called the UID,
a default group, a comment,
a home directory location,
and a login shell.
Accounts can be created with
the 'useradd' command.
To delete an account use
the 'userdel' command.
Modifying accounts can be accomplished
by using the 'usermod' command.
Group information is stored
in the /etc/group file.
To create a group, use
the 'groupadd' command.
You can delete groups by
using the 'groupdel' command.
To update an existing group use
the 'groupmod' command.
To list group memberships for an account,
use the 'groups' command.

--- TCP/IP Networking for Linux System Administrators ---

In this lesson you will learn
about the TCP/IP protocol
and the most important
aspects of IP networking.
You'll also be introduced to
network classes and classful networks.
Additionally, you'll be learning
about subnet masks
and broadcast addresses.
Next you'll learn about
classless interdomain routing
and finally you'll learn what IP addresses
are meant to be used on private networks.
Today, TCP/IP is the de facto standard
for transmitting data over networks.
TCP/IP stands for
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
and Internet Protocol (IP).
TCP is responsible for
establishing and maintaining
network conversations
so that two devices can exchange data.
The Internet Protocol
is responsible for sending data
from one device to
another device on a network.
Each one of these network devices
is known as a host
and has at least one IP address.
For a device on a network
to communicate properly,
it needs 3 pieces of information.
It needs an IP address, a subnet mask,
and a broadcast address.
Each one of these numbers is comprised of
four octets separated by a dot.
An octet represents eight-bits
and therefore can have a value
starting at 0 and going up to 255.
IP addresses are comprised of two parts.
The first part of an IP address
is the network address
and the second part is the host address.
The network portion of the IP address
tells routers what network
the host belongs to
and thus where to route data
that is destined for that host.
The host address tells
routers the specific device
that the data should be delivered to.
For routing to work properly,
each group of devices, or network,
needs to have a unique network address.
Also each device within that network
needs to have a unique host address.
The class of an address determines
what portion is used as the network address
and what portion is used
for host addresses.
By looking at the first
octet of an IP address
you can tell what class it is.
An IP address with a first octet
that falls between 1 and 127
is a class A IP address.
For example, the ip address of 17.24.88.9
belongs to a class A network.
Class B addresses begin with
128.0 and end at 191.255.
For example, 183.194.46.31
belongs to a class B network.
Class C addresses start with
192.0.0 and end with 233.255.255.
An example IP address that
belongs to a class C network
is 199.83.131.186.
A class determines the
possible number of networks
and the addressable space per network.
For example, a Class A
network can accommodate
about 16 million host addresses.
A Class B network can have
up to 65,536 hosts in it
and a class C network
can address 255 hosts.
This table lists the subnet mask used
for each of the network classes.
The network portion of an IP address
corresponds to the 255s in the subnet mask.
For example, the first octet
of a Class A network
is the network portion
while the three remaining
octets are the host portion.
For Class B networks, the first
two octets are for network addresses
while the last two octets
are for host addresses.
Finally, Class C networks use
the first three octets for the network
and just the last octet for
the host addresses.
Let's take a look at the IP address
of 183.194.46.31 as an example.
That particular IP address
is a class B network
since it falls in the range
of 128.0 to 191.255.
The network port of the address is 183.194
and the host portion is 46.31.
The netmask is listed right
above the IP address,
so you can see how the network portion
aligns with the 255 values
and the host portion aligns with the
0 values of the subnet mask.
A broadcast address is
a special logical address
used to send data to all
hosts on a given network.
In addition to their own IP addresses,
all network hosts receive data
sent to the broadcast address.
You can quickly determine
the broadcast IP address
by using the value of 255 in the octets
where there are 0's in the subnet mask.
This table lists a few examples.
For the class A network of 17.0.0.0
that uses a netmask of 255.0.0.0,
the broadcast address is 17.255.255.255.
The next two examples follow the
same pattern as you might expect.
The Class B network employees
the default 255.255.0.0 subnet mask
and the Class C network uses
a 255.255.255.0 subnet mask.
CIDR, sometimes pronounced 'CIDER',
stands for Classless Inter-Domain Routing.
It allows networks to be subdivided
regardless of their traditional class.
These subdivided networks
are called subnets.
For example, the IP address
of 121.67.198.94
falls in the Class A network range.
By default the network is 121.0.0.0,
the subnet mask is 255.0.0.0
and the broadcast address
is 121.255.255.255.
However, if you specify a subnet mask
you can alter the portion of the IP address
that is used as the network
and the portion that
is used as the host address.
By specifying a 255.255.255.0 subnet
with the 121.67.198.94 IP address,
the network becomes 121.67.198.0
and the broadcast address
is 121.67.198.255.
There are ranges of IP addresses
that are dedicated for
use in private networks.
You'll often see these
types of IP addresses
being used in your company's
internal network
and you'll most likely be using
a range of these IP addresses
for your home network as well.
These private addresses
are also called non-routable IPs
since they are not routed
through the public Internet.
You'll also hear these IP addresses
referred to as RFC1918 addresses,
which refers to the RFC1918
standards document
where these private ranges
were initially defined.
As you can see in the table,
there is a dedicated range
of non-routable private address space
for each network class.
Keep in mind that you can subnet
these networks however you like,
regardless of their associated
traditional class.
In this lesson you learned
how the TCP/IP protocol
is the defacto standard for
transmitting data over a network.
You also learned about
Class A, B, and C networks.
You learned about the default subnet masks
and broadcast addresses
used by the various network classes.
You also learned that you
can specify a subnet mask
to divide larger networks into
smaller ones called subnets.
Finally, you learned what IP addresses
are dedicated for use in private networks
and how these IP addresses are not routed
over the public Internet.

--- Networking - DNS and hostnames ---

In this lesson you will learn
how to determine
the current IP address or addresses
and use on a Linux system,
how to use the ip and ifconfig tools
to configure and control
the network interfaces on a Linux system,
how to get and set the
hostname of a Linux server.
You'll also learn what DNS is
and how to use the host and dig tools
to resolve hostnames and IP addresses.
You'll also learn how to associate names
with the IP addresses
by making entries in the /etc/host file.
Finally, you'll learn about
the /etc/nsswitch.conf file
and exactly what it's used for.
To show your current IP address,
or to get a list of all the IP addresses
in use on your system,
run the 'ip' command with
the argument of address.
With the 'ip' command,
you can use abbreviations.
So instead of running ip address,
you can run 'ip addr' or even 'ip a'.
You can also be more explicit
by running 'ip address show'
Here is some sample output
from the ip address command.
You can see two devices listed,
'lo' and 'eth0'.
The 'lo' device is called
the loopback device.
This is a special virtual
network interface
that a Linux system uses
to communicate with itself.
The loopback device has an
IP address of 127.0.0.1.
The other network device on this
system is the 'eth0' device.
This is an actual hardware device
and it has an IP address
of 192.168.1.122.
Here's another command that you can use
to display IP address information.
It's the 'ifconfig' tool.
At this point the ifconfig utility
is considered to be deprecated.
However, this little utility
hasn't quite yet disappeared
on modern Linux systems
and may be around for quite
some time to come.
If this is a refresher for you
or you are coming from
a Unix background,
you may already be familiar
with the ifconfig command,
but not its newer replacement,
the ip command.
In this lesson you will
learn how to use both
the 'ip' and 'ifconfig' commands.
To display the ip addresses in use
with the ifconfig command,
execute it without any arguments.
Here is some sample output
from the ifconfig command.
It lists two interfaces, 'eth0'
and the 'loopback' device.
You'll notice that the output is
slightly different from the ip command.
However, it gets the job done by
displaying the IP address,
netmask, and more.
Just like with the ip command,
you can see that the eth0 device
has an IP address of 192.168.1.122
and the loopback device has
an IP of 127.0.0.1.
A host is a device connected
to a network.
Since we are talking about
TCP/IP networking,
a host in this case is a device
with an IP address.
A hostname is simply a
human-readable name
that corresponds to an IP address.
Let's say we have a Linux server
that will act as a web server
in production.
We can give that server a hostname,
'webprod01' for example,
and refer to it by that hostname
instead of its IP address
which might be something
like 10.109.155.174.
A one word hostname like this
is sometimes called
the short hostname
or the unqualified hostname.
The primary purpose of DNS,
which stands for Domain Name System,
is to translate human readable
names into IP addresses.
Of course, DNS does the reverse as well.
It can translate an IP address
to a hostname.
The fully qualified domain name,
or FQDN,
of a host also contains
a domain name
and a top-level domain name.
Each section of the FQDN is
separated by a period or dot.
TLD stands for top-level domain
and is the rightmost portion
of a DNS name.
Common top level domains include
.com, .net, and .org,
but there actually hundreds of
other top level domains.
A domain appears just to the left
of a top-level domain.
This is often a company name,
an organization name, or even a brand name.
The FQDN, or long hostname,
of our Linux server would contain
at least three strings separated
by a period.
For example, its FQDN could be
'webprod01.mycompany.com'.
However, domains can be further
divided into sub-domains.
Let's say "My Company" wants
to use subdomains
to identify where a server is located.
It could use a country domain
such as 'us.mycompany.com'
and maybe even a state subdomain,
something like 'ny.us.mycompany.com'.
If our web server were in New York,
its FQDN might actually be
'webprod01.ny.us.mycompany.com'.
Subdomains do not have to correspond
to geographical regions;
they can be anything the DNS
administrator has configured.
You can display the current hostname
by using the hostname command
or by running 'uname -n'.
In this example, the hostname
is 'webprod01'.
If you want to display the
fully qualified domain name,
run 'hostname -f'.
You can also temporarily change
the hostname of a system
by supplying it as an argument
to the hostname command.
However, to make this
persistent between reboots,
you'll need to update the
hostname configuration.
This configuration varies slightly
from distribution to distribution.
For Ubuntu and RedHat systems,
edit the /etc/hostname file
and place your desired hostname there.
For earlier versions of RedHat,
you can edit the /etc/sysconfig/network
file
and set the HOSTNAME variable
to the desired value.
If you want to lookup or resolve
a DNS name or an IP address,
you can use the 'host' or 'dig' tools.
In their most simplest forms,
you specify the IP address
or dns name
you want to lookup as an
argument to the command.
On this screen is some sample output
from the host command.
The /etc/hosts file contains a list
IP addresses and hostnames.
You can create entries
in the hosts file
by starting a line with an IP address
and then following it with
the name or names
you want to translate
that IP address to.
The example on the screen
uses multiple names,
but if you don't need or
want to access system
by multiple names you can
simply list one name.
After you have created an
entry in /etc/hosts file,
you can start communicating
with that IP address
by using the name listed
in the host file.
This can be useful if you want
to access computers
that do not have DNS hostnames
for example.
Also, it's common to use
/etc/host entries
to override the DNS entry of a system.
For example, if you have a
cluster of web servers
you could have a private network
that only the web cluster
members can access.
You can create an entry for
the members of the cluster
in /etc/hosts and use
their private address,
thus forcing network communications
to go through the private network.
It's important to note that the
/etc/hosts is local to the system.
Adding an entry to the /etc/hosts file
does not add an entry into DNS.
Here is an example /etc/hosts file.
You'll see the first line contains
an entry for localhost.
Remember that this is used by
the loopback device
for internal communications.
The next line contains the public
IP address of the system
followed by the FQDN and
then the short name.
The third line contains a
non-routable IP address
for webprod02.
In this example, it's the private
IP address of that system.
There is another similar entry
for webprod03 on the next line.
The last line is an example that
only contains one name,
in this case, 'dbcluster'.
Typically the /etc/hosts file
is checked first
before a DNS server is queried,
but you can change this behavior
by editing the '/etc/nsswitch.conf' file.
NSS stands for Name Service Switch
and it controls the order in
which lookups are performed.
The hosts line determines the
order for name resolution.
For example, if you have 'hosts: files dns'
in the nsswitch.conf file,
the /etc/hosts file
will be searched first,
and then dns.
For example, if you have
'hosts: files dns'
in the nsswitch.conf file,
the /etc/hosts file will
be searched first.
If an IP address is found there,
that IP address is used
and the search stops.
If it is not found,
then DNS is queried.
There are other services that
can resolve hostnames as well.
If you want to use NIS
for name resolution,
you can add it to the hosts line
in /etc/nsswitch.conf file.
In this lesson, you learned
how you can see
what IP addresses are assigned
to the network interfaces
on your Linux system,
you also learned how to manually
add IP addresses
using the 'ip' and
'ifconfig' utilities.
Next, you learned how to set and
get the hostname of the system.
We also talked about DNS
and using the 'host' and 'dig' utilities
to resolve names and IP addresses.
You learned how to make entries
to the /etc/hosts file
and how to control the order
that name resolutions take place
by using the /etc/nsswitch.conf file.

--- Networking - DHCP, Dynamic and Static Addressing ---

In this lesson, you will learn what network ports are and what they're used for.
You'll also learn about DHCP and how to configure a Linux server as a DHCP client.
We'll also cover how to assign static IP addresses to the network interfaces on a Linux system.
Next, you'll learn about the if up and if down scripts.
Finally, you'll learn about a couple of menu driven tools you can use to easily configure the network
settings on various Linux distributions.
Just like IP addresses identify hosts on a network ports.
Identify the services on a host.
When a service starts on a system, it binds itself to a port and listens for traffic destined for its
port.
Ports range from 1 to 65535.
Ports one through 1023 are called well known ports or system ports.
These ports are pre assigned ports and are used for common system services.
These ports are also called privileged ports, since it requires superuser privileges to open these
ports.
Ports above 1024 can be opened and used by normal users on a system and are called unprivileged ports.
I've listed a few common ports on the screen.
Port 22 is reserved for SSH.
Port 25 for SMTP 80 for HTTP 143 for IMAP, 389 for LDAP and 443 for https.
When you type in https, colon slash slash w w w ebay.com in your web browser, your computer translates
w w my bank into an IP address.
Then your web browser initiates a request to that IP address on port 443 since you specified the HTTPS
protocol.
The service in this case, a web server will receive the traffic on port four, four, three.
The ETSI services file translates human readable names into port numbers.
Here you'll find a list of predefined ports.
You can also add to this list.
Sometimes when you install third party software, you may need to add an entry and Etsy services for
the service that that software provides.
You can also create entries for your own custom written applications that use ports.
DHCP stands for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.
DHCP is primarily used to assign IP addresses to host on a network.
When a DHCP client wants to request an IP address, it sends a broadcast message looking for a DHCP
server.
The DHCP server then responds to the client and provides it with an IP address and other additional
information such as the net mask, the gateway, and the DNS servers to use for name resolution.
The DHCP client configures itself with this information and begins to communicate on the network.
The IP address is signed to a DHCP client is leased from the DHCP server.
The client will be able to use that IP address for the lease expiration time configured by the DHCP
server.
If the DHCP client wants to continue using the IP address beyond the lease expiration time, it must
send a renewal request to the DHCP server.
If no renewal is received by the DHCP server, it will place this IP address back into the pool of available
addresses.
To configure a red hat based system as a DHCP client.
Edit the network device configuration file located in the ETSI SES config network dash scripts directory.
The name of this file will be IFC CFG Dash Network Device name depending on the system configuration
and the underlying hardware.
It might be IFC, cfg, dash, FX zero, or even something like IFC CFG.
Dash and P five SW two.
To get a list of network devices on your system, run if config space, dash a or IP space link.
Once you've identified the configuration file for the network device, set the boot variable to TCP.
To configure and obtain to system as a DHCP client.
Edit the ETSI network interfaces file.
Add the DHCP method to the inet address family statement for the interface.
The line will read ie face network device name init dhcp for zero.
This line will be i face eath zero init dhcp.
You can also assign a static IP address to a Linux system for red hat based systems.
Edit the network interface configuration file located in ETSI CIS Config Network Dash scripts.
Be sure to set the boot proto variable to static.
Assign the IP address the net mask network, broadcast and gateway as shown on the screen.
If you want the network device to be activated at boot time, set on boot to.
Yes.
To assign an interface a static IP address on an on to system.
Edit the ETSI network interfaces file.
Use the static keyword following inet on the AI face line for the network interface.
Next supply the IP address, net mask and gateway address.
You can use the IP command to manually assign an IP address to a network interface to add the IP address
of 10.11 12.13 to 0 run IP space address space ad space 10.11 1213 space def space zero.
You can also supply the net mass by following the IP address with a forward slash and then providing
the net mask to bring the interface up.
One run IP link set zero up.
If the if config tool is available, you can use it to assign IP addresses to network interfaces as
well to add the IP address of 10.11 point 1213 to 4 zero run if config if zero, ten, 11, 12, 13.
To specify the net mask, use the net mask keyword and follow it by the net mask you intend to use.
And this example, it's net mask space 255 to 50 5 to 55.0 to bring the interface up run if config if
zero up.
And easier way to bring network interfaces up and down.
It's by using the if up and down commands.
These commands are actually scripts that are provided by many Linux distributions.
They use the information specified in the network configuration files to configure the interfaces.
If you make a configuration change, you can test your change by using the if up and if down commands.
Instead of manually editing network configuration files, some distributions supply gooey or chewy tools.
Q stands for Graphical User Interface and two.
E stands for Textual User Interface.
Red Hat supplies A to E called NMT UI.
You can run NMT UI as route and use the simple menu driven interface to configure your network devices.
Older versions of Red Hat include a very similar utility called System Dash Config Dash Network.
You can use the AST, which stands for yet another setup tool on such systems.
At the time of this recording, there are no official abont to network configuration tools available.
In this lesson you learned about network ports and how super user privileges are required to open ports
below 1024.
These ports go by two names privileged ports and well known ports.
Ports above 1024 are unprivileged ports and can be opened by normal users on a Linux system.
You also learn that the primary purpose of DHCP is to assign IP addresses to hosts on a network.
You learn how to configure Linux servers to use DHCP to obtain their networking information and how
to assign static IP addresses as well.
You learn that the if up and if down scripts are available on many Linux distributions and that they
can be used to easily bring up or down a network interface.
Finally, you learned about gooey and chewy tools that you can use to configure the networking settings
on a Linux server.

--- Network Troubleshooting - Part One ---

Network troubleshooting is a
large and complex topic.
How you approach a situation
will largely depend on
the circumstances and environment
in which you are doing the
network troubleshooting.
However, in this lesson, you will learn
some of the most common tools
you can use to perform network diagnostics.
First you'll learn about the 'ping' command
and how to test network
connectivity with it.
Next you'll learn how to
examine network routes
using the 'traceroute' and
'tracepath' commands.
You'll also learn how to display
various network statistics
with the netstat command.
We'll cover how to analyze raw
network traffic using 'tcpdump'.
Finally, you'll learn how to test
if a port is actually open
by connecting to it with
the 'telnet' command.
If you are having trouble connecting
to a host over a network,
one of the first things you can do
is to ping the host.
The ping command sends
one or more ICMP packets
to a host that you specify
and waits for a reply.
To use the ping command simply run ping
and provide a hostname or an IP address.
By default ping will keep sending packets
until you stop the program with Control-C.
If you want to specify the
number of packets to send,
use the '-c' option.
For example, to send three
packets to google.com,
run 'ping -c 3 google.com'.
Here is the output of a ping command.
You should notice that the hostname
was translated into an IP address.
In this case google.com
resolved to 216.58.2.7.
If the name doesn't resolve,
you'll get an "unknown host" error.
In that case you should use
the IP address of the system
you are trying to connect to.
Also, if you can ping by
IP address but not by name,
there is a problem with the
resolution of the DNS name.
This ping command sent three packets.
The statistics section reported
that 3 replies were received
and thus no packet loss was encountered.
This means that we have network
connectivity to google.com.
You'll also notice that each packet
has a time associated with it.
In this example the first
reply was received
in 20 milliseconds as
was the second packet.
The third reply took 23.9 milliseconds.
You'll see a summary of this activity
on the last line in the output.
RTT stands for "Round Trip Time".
Here is an example where no
replies were received.
You'll see that 100,
packet loss is reported.
This means there is no connectivity
between this host and google.com.
At this point the only thing we really know
is that we can't ping google.com.
It doesn't necessarily mean
that Google is down.
At this point I would try to ping
something on my local network.
If I cannot ping anything
on my local network,
then I have a problem with my host.
Maybe my network cable
accidentally got disconnected,
or maybe I performed
an upgrade on my server
and the network drivers
didn't update properly.
Maybe I forgot to start
the networking services
on my server after I performed
some maintenance.
The point is that I at least
know where to start looking.
If I could successfully ping
another host on my local network,
then the problem lies outside of my system.
Maybe the router on the edge
of my company's network is down
and I cannot reach any hosts
on the public internet.
We could test that scenario by pinging
other hosts like facebook.com
or youtube.com.
If we can ping facebook and YouTube,
then it's a problem specifically
getting to Google.
Perhaps Google installed a firewall
that simply discards ICMP packets
and thus pings will never work.
If that turns out to be the case,
then we'll need to use other tools to test
network connectivity which
we'll be covering soon.
This example demonstrates
pinging an IP address.
This IP address is on same local network
as the host I'm running the command from
and the response times are very fast.
They are less than 1 millisecond in fact.
Ping tests an endpoint,
but it doesn't tell you anything
about the path or route
the network packets take.
To examine the route,
use the traceroute command.
Note that the traceroute command
requires root privileges
to function properly.
By default traceroute
will attempt to translate
IP addresses into DNS names.
If you want to skip that step
and just work with IP addresses,
use the '-n' option.
This will speed things up a bit
and can be helpful if you
are experiencing DNS issues.
The output is easier to read
than DNS names, in my opinion.
The traceroute command sends 3 packets
to each hop along the way.
You can see the response times
for each hop along the route.
The first hop is very quick
while the last hop is slower.
This is expected behavior.
However, if one of the hops along the path
takes a very long time to respond,
then that's an indication of
where an issue may exist.
Maybe there is network congestion
on that particular router, for example.
If you see an asterisk where
you would normally see time,
that means a reply wasn't received.
Some routers are actually configured
to block traceroute data.
In these cases the traceroute command
may be of little use to you.
If network connectivity
is otherwise working
and you see asterisks in traceroute output,
that probably means a router
is blocking traceroute data
and not that there is an actual problem.
Network troubleshooting consists of
looking at the same situation
from multiple angles,
using multiple tools and
drawing conclusions
from the overall picture.
It also helps to know how your
particular network is configured.
Situational awareness is the key
to network troubleshooting.
You cannot simply rely on one tool
like ping or traceroute
and be guaranteed you know
exactly what is happening on a network.
An alternative to traceroute is tracepath.
The tracepath command does
not require root privileges.
You can use the -n option
to use IP addresses
instead of DNS names just like
you did with traceroute.
The tracepath will produce
one line of output
for each response it receives,
unlike tracreoute which produces
one line of output per hop.
In this particular example,
you'll see that two responses
were received from 10.0.2.2.
For simple checks, tracepath
can do the trick.
For advanced options, you'll probably
end up using traceroute.

--- Network Troubleshooting - Part Two ---

The netstat command can be used
to collect a wide variety of
network information.
I'll share with you some of my favorite
and most used netstat options.
The '-n' is used to display numerical
IP addresses and ports
as opposed to host names and service names.
You can use this option in conjunction
with most other netstat options.
To get a list of network
interfaces on your system
you can use the '-i' option.
To display routing information, use '-r'.
I often use 'netstat -rn'
to display the routes using IP addresses.
The '-p' option displays
the PID and program
that is using a given socket.
For example, if you are
connecting via SSH to a server
and you run 'netstat -p',
you will see the PID of
the specific SSH process
you are connected to.
Note that you'll need to use
root privileges with the -p option.
The '-l' option displays listening sockets.
Use this option in conjunction
with the -p option
to see what processes are
listening on what ports.
On a web server, for example,
it will show that a process
such as 'nginx' or 'apache'
is listening on port 80.
If you cannot connect to a
given port on a system,
run this command to make sure
that a process is actually
listening on that port.
You can limit the output of
netstat to a specific protocol.
To limit output to the TCP protocol
use 'netstat -t'.
For UDP use the '-u' option.
If you want a list of all programs
that are listening on tcp ports,
you can use 'netstat -ntlp'.
Here is some sample output
from the netstat command.
The first bit of output is a list
of network interfaces
from the 'netstat -i' command.
Next, the routing information
is displayed with 'netstat -rn'.
Finally, a list of programs
that are listening on
TCP ports is displayed.
In this example SSH is listening on port 22
and a program called master,
which is the Postfix master process,
is listening on the SMTP port, port 25.
Remember to use root
privileges with the '-p' option.
I accomplished that by using the
sudo command in this example.
Sometimes it's not enough to know
that network connectivity is in place.
Sometimes you need to examine
the contents of the network traffic
to ensure payloads are
actually being delivered.
Perhaps one host is claiming
to send data to another,
but to be sure that data is
reaching its destination
you can look at the
traffic it is receiving.
To do this you'll want to use some sort
of packet sniffing tool such as 'tcpdump'.
Even though there are several other tools
that perform this same task,
tcpdump is one of the older and
most commonly installed tools.
tcpdump requires root privileges to run.
If you run it without arguments
it prints out a description of the contents
of network packets being received.
It will display information
such as a timestamp,
the source system address and port,
the destination system address and port,
and packet specific information.
The tcpdump utility will continue
to examine packets
until you stop it with Control-c.
Like other networking commands
we've covered,
tcpdump has the '-n' option
to suppress DNS queries
and to display numerical
addresses and ports.
To display information in ASCII,
or human readable format,
use the '-A' option.
This will allow you to see
human readable text,
if that type of data is being
received on the host.
For example, if you are using tcpdump
to examine incoming traffic on a webserver,
you can see the URL paths
that are being requested
if you use the -A option.
If you want even more
output and information
use the '-v' option.
To increase the verbosity
use '-vv' and for the most
verbose output, use '-vvv'.
Here is some sample output from tcpdump.
On the far left hand side of
the output is the time stamp.
Next, is the source information
followed by the destination.
Finally, information about
the network packet
is displayed at the end of the line.
The second output shows an example
of verbose ASCII output.
You'll notice that a client
request the /about page
from the web server on this host.
Remember to use root privileges
when you run tcpdump.
The telnet command is practically obsolete.
It was originally used to
log into remote systems.
Today, SSH has taken its place,
but telnet can be used in
network troubleshooting.
Since telnet has fallen out of
favor for interactive logins,
it may not be installed by default
on some Linux distributions.
You can use telnet to
initiate a TCP connection
to a host on a specific port.
Let's go back to a previous
hypothetical situation.
Let's say we cannot ping
google.com from our host.
We know that doesn't necessarily
mean that Google is down.
To see if Google is accepting web traffic,
we can connect to the HTTP port,
which is port 80.
To do this, we type 'telnet google.com 80'.
If the port is open,
then we get a message like
connected to google.com.
If you want to, you can send data directly
to the port by typing in some data.
The HTTP protocol does accept
human readable commands.
For example, to request a web page
use "GET" followed by the path.
To get the home page, type "GET /".
Once you are ready to close the connection,
hold down the ctrl key and
press the right bracket key.
This will bring you to a telnet prompt.
To exit telnet, type quit and press enter.
When you attempt a connection,
you may get a message like
operation timed out
In the case of "operation timed out"
that means that a connection
could not be established.
This could be because traffic
is silently getting dropped
before it reaches the port
or that port is not open on that host.
If you get a "connection refused" message
that means the port is being
blocked by a firewall.
In this lesson, you learned
how the ping command
can be used to determine if
network connectivity exists
between two hosts.
You also learned that even if a ping fails,
it does not necessarily mean
the host you are pinging is down.
Next you learned how to
trace the path network traffic
takes on the way to a host.
You also learned how
to list network interfaces,
show the route table,
and display the applications
that are listening on ports
by using the netstat command.
We also covered how to
sniff network packets
using tcpdump.
Finally, you learned how to test
for port connectivity with
the telnet command.

--- Special Permission Modes - Part One ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
Let's take a couple of minutes to talk about
the special modes of setuid, setguid, and
the sticky bit.
When you start a process it starts running
with your user and group permissions.
We've talked about ways to run programs as
others, including using the sudo command and
the su command.
However, there is a special permission you
can use called setuid. It stands for set user
ID and it forces a process to start as the
owner of the file, regardless who executes
that file.
To tell if a file has the setuid bit set,
you can look at it's ls output. You will see
an s in the execute field of the owner section
of the permissions. The passwd program is
one such file that has the setuid permission.
Since the owner of the file is root, when
this program gets executed it runs as the
root user. The reason the passwd commands
uses setuid root is because it needs root
privileges to modify the /etc/passwd and/or
/etc/shadow files when a user changes their
password.
The ping command is another example of setuid
root permissions. The ping command needs root
privileges to access network devices. Setting
the setuid bit and having root as the owner
of the file, lets anyone on the system successfully
use the ping command.
The chsh command is yet another example. This
command allows the user to change their shell.
Doing so requires an update to the /etc/passwd
file which can only be edited by the root
user.
Once an attacker gains access to a system
they often look for files that are suid root.
Since these files run as root they are an
attacker surface for privilege escalation
attacks.
It's important to note that most Linux distributions
do not honor setuid on shell scripts, only
on binary files. If you were to execute a
shell script that has the setuid attribute
set, it would execute as you. Said another
way, it will execute as the user who runs
that script. This is a security measure taken
by the OS.
Just like you can determine the numeric permissions
to use with chmod by adding together the base
10 values of read, write, and execute, you
can add together the permissions of setuid,
setgid, and the sticky bit to get the desired
special permissions.
The base 10 value of setuid is 4, setgid is
2, and the sticky bit is 1.
Just like any other file permissions, you
can add the setuid attribute to a file using
the chmod command.
To do so in symbolic notation, run chmod u+s
and then supply the path to the file.
To add the setuid attribute using octal notation,
start the permissions with a 4, then follow
it with normal permissions mode. For example,
you could run chmod 4755 to turn on the setuid
attribute, allow the owner of the file full
permissions and everyone else the ability
to read and execute the file.
To remove the setuid permission, run chmod
u-s or chmod starting with a 0 followed by
the desired numeric mode.
To find all the files on a system that have
the setuid permission, you can use the find
command.
find /, which means start searching from the
root of the file system, then use the -perm
option followed by a forward slash and then
4000. The forward slash means to match any
of the permission bits that are set for the
file. If you are using an older version of
find you might need to use -perm +4000.
You can also use the -ls option to find which
displays the results in a long listing format
so you can view the permissions.
What you are looking for is files that can
be edited by any other user than the owner.
Using a 4755 mode on a file only allows the
owner of the file to edit it.
Using 4775 gives editing permissions to members
of the group to which the file belongs.
Using 4777 allows anyone to edit the file.
This would be extremely bad, especially if
the file is owned by root. This would allow
someone to change the contents of that file
to do whatever they want. When they execute
that file it will run with root privileges.
This is something an attacker hopes to find
when then gain access to your system. If they
broke in with a normal user account they are
looking to escalate their privileges to the
superuser account so they can do anything
they want with the system.
Setgid is very much like setuid. It causes
the program to run with the group privileges
of the file, rather than the group privileges
of the person executing the file.
To tell if a file has the setgid bit set,
you can look at it's ls output. You will see
an s in the execute field of the group section
of the permissions. One example of a command
that is setgid, is the wall command. The wall
command displays a message to the terminal
of users that are logged into the system.
Since all the files that represent a users
terminal are in the tty group and the tty
group has write permission on those files,
anyone using the wall command is allowed to
write to those terminals because that process
is running with tty group privileges.
To find all the files on a system that have
the setgid permission, run
find / -perm forward slash 2000. Again, the
forward slash means to match any of the permission
bits that are set for the file. If you are
using an older version of find you might need
to use -perm +2000.
To add the setgid permission to a file, use
chmod g+s or use a 2 in the first field of
the permissions string. For example, you could
run chmod 2755 on a file to turn on the setgid
attribute, allow the owner of the file full
permissions and everyone else the ability
to read and execute the file.
If you want to add both the setuid and setgid
permission you can run chmod ug+s or chmod
6 followed by the normal permissions. Since
setuid is represented by 4 and setgid is represented
by 2, you add them together to get 6 and use
that in the special permissions field.
To remove the setgid permission, use chmod
g-s. You could also subtract 2 from the special
permissions field. To clear all special permissions
use chmod 0 followed by the normal desired
mode.
Using setgid on a directory causes new files
and subdirectories created within it to inherit
the group ID of that directory rather than
the group id of the user creating the new
file or directory.
Also, newly created directories inherit the
setgid bit, so again, all the new files and
directories created within that new directory
inherit the group ID of that directory.
Note that setting the setgid permission on
a directory only affects the group ID of new
files and subdirectories created after the
setgid bit is set. Adding the setgid bit to
an existing directory does not change the
permissions of existing files and subdirectories.
Using the setgid bit on directories can make
it easier when working with groups. If you
want to make sure all files are created with
the proper group ownership in a shared location,
turn on the setgid bit for that directory.
This way you don't have to worry about a user
forgetting to run the newgrp command before
creating a file or forgetting to change the
group ownership of a file they created.

--- Special Permission Modes - Part Two ---

Using the find command to look for files that have set UID and set jid bit set is one way to monitor
for changes.
However, you can use a file integrity checker such as tripwire aid e os, sec sa1 or even your distribution's
package manager to find files that have in proper permissions or that have been modified from their
original state.
Let's talk about the final special permission.
It's called The Sticky Bit, and it's used on a directory to only allow the files owner, the directory
owner or the root user to rename or delete the file.
Without the sticky bit set on a directory, the user could delete another user's file if the permissions
on the directory allowed for it.
For example, this would be applicable to a directory that had seven, seven, seven permissions on
it to tell if a directory has the sticky bit set.
You can look at its RLS output.
You will see a T in the execute field of the other section of the permissions.
You'll usually only find the sticky bit set on the slash temp directory or the var temp directory.
But you may also encounter it on directories that are being used to share data among several or all
users on a system to set the sticky bit on a directory used to mod AU plus T or use one in the special
permissions field followed by the remaining permissions.
Typically, using the sticky bit only makes sense with seven, seven, seven permissions.
So you would typically run command 1777, followed by a path to a directory.
To remove the sticky bit run command o t followed by the path to the directory.
Again, just like removing the other special permissions, you can subtract the numeric value in the
special permissions field or use a zero to clear all special permissions.
If you see a special permission represented with a capital letter in LS output, that means the permission
that would normally show up in that position is not set.
If you see a lowercase s or a lowercase t, then the underlying normal permission is set.
Here's an example of a file that has 644 permissions.
The user section of the permission shows.
RW Which is read and write permissions.
If we add the set UID bit by running command U plus S on the file, you'll see a capital S in the LZ
output.
This permission really doesn't make any sense because the program is not executable.
But in any case, if you see this in LZ output, you know exactly what the file permission is.
Now, if we add the execute bit for the owner by running GMR you plus X on the file, then the LZ output
shows a lowercase s in the output.
Here are a couple of more examples showing special permissions with capital letters.
The first example shows that the set JID bit is set, but the execute bit is not set for the group.
The second example shows that the sticky bit is set, but the execute bit is not set for others.
Again, these permissions don't make any sense, but if you run across them or accidentally set them,
you'll know exactly what you're looking at.

--- Shell Scripting - Part One ---

In this lesson you'll learn
exactly what scripts are,
the components that make up a script,
how to use variables in your scripts,
how to perform tests and make decisions,
how to accept command line arguments,
and how to accept input from a user.
A script is a command line program
that contains a series of commands.
Commands contained in the script
are executed by an interpreter.
In the case of shell scripts,
the shell acts as the interpreter
and executes the commands
listed in the script one after the other.
Anything you can execute
at the command line
you can put into a shell script.
Shell scripts are great
at automating tasks.
If you find yourself running
a series of commands
to accomplish a given task
and will need to perform that
task again in the future,
you can, and probably should,
create a shell script for that task.
Let's look at a simple shell script.
Before you can execute a shell script,
make sure that it has the
executable bits there.
So we can chmod it 755 for instance.
If the script is in your path,
you can simply type in the script name
and it will execute.
If it's not in your path,
then you'll need to give it a
relative or full path to your script.
In this case, we'll pretend that
I'm sitting in my home directory
and this is a script that I just created
and I want to execute it
out of my home directory.
My home directory is not in my path.
So I'll do './' and the script
name to execute it.
You'll notice that the
first line of the script
starts with a pound (#) sign,
then an exclamation mark (!),
then that is followed by the path
to the bash shell program.
The number sign is very
similar to the sharp sign
used in music notation.
Also, some people refer
to the exclamation mark
as a "bang."
So, '#!' can be spoken as "sharp bang."
The term Shebang is an inexact
contraction of "sharp bang."
When a script's first line
starts with a shebang,
what follows the shebang is
used as the interpreter
for the commands listed in the script.
Here are three examples of shell scripts,
each using a different shell
program as the interpreter.
When you execute a script
that contains a shebang,
what actually happens is that
the interpreter is executed
and the path used to call the script
is passed as an argument
to the interpreter.
You can prove this by
examining the process table.
Let's start this script called, sleepy.sh,
in the background and
look at the process table.
You can see that what is actually running
is '/bin/bash ./sleepy.sh'.
Let's use a full path to the script.
In this case, '/bin/bash' has
been executed with
the path to '/sleepy.sh'
which is '/tmp/sleepy.sh'.
Also you can see that bash is
executing the sleep command,
which is the first and actually
only command in the shell script.
If you do not supply a shebang
and specify an interpreter
on the first line of the script,
the commands in the script will be executed
using your current shell.
Even though this can work just fine
under many circumstances,
it's best to be explicit and
specify the exact interpreter
to be used with the script.
For example, there are features and syntax
that work just fine with the bash shell
that won't work with the csh shell.
Also, you don't have to use shell as
the interpreter for your scripts.
Here is an example of a
Python script named 'hi.py'.
If you're interested in python
programming and scripting,
you can see my book -
Python Programming for Beginners.
You can find more information about it
at http://www.linuxtrainingacademy.com/python-book.
Let's get back to shell scripting.
You can use variables
in your shell scripts.
Variables are simply storage
locations that have a name.
You can think of variables
as name-value pairs.
To assign a value to a variable,
use the syntax VARIABLE_NAME="Value".
Make sure to not use spaces
before or after the equals sign.
Also, variables are case sensitive,
and by convention variable
names are in all uppercase.
To use a variable, precede the
variable name with a dollar sign.
You can also enclose the
variable name in curly braces
and precede the opening
brace with a dollar sign.
The curly brace syntax is optional
unless you need to immediately precede
or follow the variable
with additional data.
Here's an example.
Let's say you want to add
the letters 'ing' to the value
that is stored in the 'MY_SHELL' variable.
To do this, you use '$ and then 'ing'.
If you do not encapsulate
the variable name in curly braces,
the shell will treat the additional text
as part of the variable name.
Since a variable with
that name does not exist,
nothing is put in its
place in this example.
You can also assign the output
of a command to a variable.
To do this, enclose the
command in parenthesis
and precede it with a dollar sign.
In this example, the output
of the command hostname
is stored in the variable SERVER_NAME.
In this sample output the
server name is 'linuxsvr'.
You can also enclose the
command in back ticks.
This is an older syntax that is being
replaced by the $() syntax.
However, you may see this in older scripts.
Variable names can contain letters,
digits, and underscores.
They can start with letters or underscores,
but cannot start with a digit.
Here are examples of valid variable names,
followed by some examples
of invalid variable names.
The valid variable names have a mixture
of uppercase and lowercase letters
and the underscore and digits.
All that is fine.
In the invalid case, you see a variable
that starts with the digit,
which is an invalid syntax
for variable name.
The other 2 examples contain
'-' and a '@' sign
which are not valid characters
to be used in variable names.
Scripts are designed to replace the need
for a person to physically
sit at a keyboard
and type a series of commands.
What if you have a task
you want to automate,
but it requires different actions
based on different circumstances?
If you're typing in the commands,
you can take the time to look at a status
and then make a decision
based on that status.
In shell scripts, you can
do the same thing.
You can do this with 'tests'.
To create a test place a conditional
expression between brackets.
The syntax is: [ condition-to-test-for ].
You can test for several
types of situations.
For example, you can
compare if strings are equal,
if a number is greater than another,
or if a file exists.
This test checks to see
if /etc/passwd exists.
If it does, it returns true.
Said another way, the command
exits with a status of 0.
If the file doesn't exist it returns false.
That is, the command exits
with a status of 1.
If you are using the bash shell,
you can run the command 'help test'
to see the various types
of tests you can perform.
You can also read the man page for test
by typing in 'man test'.
Here are of some of the more
common tests you can perform.
'-d' is to see whether what
follows is a directory.
If it is directory, it returns true.
'-e' returns true if the file exists.
'-f' returns true if the file exists
and it is a regular file.
For example, it's not a symlink.
'-r' returns true if the file
is readable by you.
'-s' returns true if the file
exists and it's not empty.
'-w' tests to see if the file is writable.
'-x' tests to see if the
file is executable.
If it is, it returns true.
'-z' followed by a string returns
true if the string is empty.
However, '-n' will return true
if the string is not empty.
If you place 2 strings on either
side of an equals sign,
then it will return true if
those strings are equal.
You can also test the
2 strings are not equal
by using '!' before the equals sign.
You can also do number comparisons like
'-eq' to test if the numbers are equal.
Or '-ne' if they are not equal.
'-lt' if the first number is less
than the second number.
'-le' if the first number is less than
or equal to the second number.
'-gt' if the first number is greater
than the second number.
And '-ge' will return true
if the first number
is greater than or equal to
the second number.

--- Shell Scripting - Part Two ---

So now that you know how to determine
if a certain condition is true or not,
you can combine that
with the 'if' statement
to make decisions in your scripts.
The if statement starts with the word 'if'
and is then followed by a test.
The following line contains
the word 'then'.
Next is a command or series of commands
that will be executed if the
tested condition returns true.
Finally the if statement ends with fi,
which is simply if spelled backwards.
Here is an example script.
Note that it's a best practice
to enclose variables in quotes
to prevent some unexpected side effects
when performing conditional tests.
You can also perform an action
if the condition is not true
by using an if/else statement.
Simply insert the 'else' keyword
and follow that by the commands
you want to execute if
the condition is not true.
So let's update the script
to perform an action
if the statement is not true.
Because "$MY_SHELL" = "bash"
evaluates to false,
the statements following
else were executed.
You can also test for multiple
conditions using the 'elif'.
The word elif is a contraction
for "else if."
Like if, follow elif with
a condition to test for.
On the following line use the word then.
Finally provide a series of commands
to execute if the condition
evaluates to true.
Here is an updated version
of the script using elif.
If you want to perform
an action on a list of items,
use a 'for' loop.
The first line of a for loop
starts with the word 'for'
followed by a variable name,
and then a list of items.
The next line contains the word 'do'.
Place the statements you want to execute
on the following lines
and finally end the for loop
with the word 'done' on a single line.
Esentially what happens is that
the first item in the list
is assigned to the variable
and the code block is executed.
The next item in the list is
then assigned to the variable
and the commands are executed.
This happens for each item in the list.
Here is an example script that
shows how a for loop works.
You'll see that there are
3 items in the list.
Red, green, blue.
The for loop executes 3 times.
The first time, red is assigned
to the variable color.
And the echo color command is run.
And the second time green
is assigned the color.
And the third and final time,
blue is assigned to the variable color
and the command is executed.
It's also a common practice
for the list of items
to be stored in a variable
as in this example.
This script renames all of
the files that end in jpg
by inserting todays date
before the original file name.
Here's what happens
when you run this script.
You'll see that the 'bear.jpg' file
becomes today's date-bear.jpg.
And this continues for every file
that ends in jpg.
Positional parameters are variables
that contain the contents
of the command line.
The variables are $0 through $9.
The script itself is stored in $0,
the first parameter is stored in $1,
the second in $2, and so on.
Let's take this command line as an example.
The contents of $0 are "script.sh",
$1 contains "parameter1",
$2 contains "parameter2",
and $3 contains "parameter3".
This script called, archive_user.sh,
accepts a parameter which
happens to be a username.
Anything that follows the
pound sign is a comment.
The only exception to this is
the shebang on the first line.
Everywhere else in the script
where a pound sign is encountered
it marks the beginning of a comment.
Comments are dutifully
ignored by the interpreter
as they are for the benefit of us humans.
Anything that follows the
pound sign is ignored.
If a pound sign starts at
the beginning of a line
the entire line is ignored.
If a pound sign is encountered
in the middle of a line
only the information to the right
of the pound sign is ignored.
Here is what the output looks like
when we execute the script.
Instead of referring to $1
throughout the script,
let's assign its value to a
more meaningful variable name.
In this case, let's assign it to
the variable called user.
The output remains exactly the same.
You can access all the
positional parameters
starting at $1 to the very last one
on the command line
by using the special variable $@.
Here is how to update the script
to accept one or more parameters.
Now you can pass in multiple
users to the script.
And the for loop will execute for each user
that you supplied on the command line.
Here's what the script will look like
if we pass 'tar' to 2 users.
In this case, 'chet' and 'joe'.
If you want to accept standard input
use the read command.
Remember that standard
input typically comes
from a person typing at the keyboard,
but it can also come from other sources
like the output of a command
in a command pipeline.
The format for the read command is
read -p "PROMPT" VARIABLE_NAME.
This version of the archive_user.sh script
asks for the user account.
In this example, I ran the script
then typed in the username 'mitch'.
Let's review.
The first line in a shell script
should start with a shebang
and the path to the interpreter
that should be used to execute
the commands listed in the script.
To assign a value to a variable
start with the variable name
followed by an equals sign
then followed by the value.
Do not use a space before
or after the equals sign.
You can access the value stored
in a variable by using
$VARIABLE_NAME or $.
The latter form is required
if you want to preceed
or follow the variable
with additional data.
To assign the output of
a command to a variable
enclose the command in parentheseis
and precede it with a dollar sign.
Perform tests by placing
expressions in brackets.
Tests are typically combined
with if statements.
Use if, if/else, or if/elif/else statements
to make decisions in your scripts.
To perform an action or series of actions
on multiple items, use a for loop.
To access items on the command line
use positional parameters.
The name of the program
is represented by $0,
the first parameter is represented
by $1, and so on.
To access all the items on the command line
starting at the first parameter ($1),
use the special variable $@.
You can place comments in your scripts
by using the pound sign.
If you like to accept user
input in your scripts,
use the read command.

--- Tab completion ---

1
[Music]
2
Using tab completion is one of the
easiest ways to increase your efficiency
3
at the command line. Not only can tab
completion say few keystrokes, but it can
4
reveal the possible choices in a given
situation. Tab completion can be used
5
auto complete file names, directories,
commands, arguments and more. Let's look
6
at using tab completion to autocomplete
commands. After you start typing a
7
command you can hit the Tab key to
invoke a completion. Tab attempts to
8
automatically complete partially typed
commands. If there are multiple commands
9
that begin with a string that precedes
tab, those commands will be displayed.
10
You can continue to type in pressed have
again. When there is only one possibility
11
remaining, pressing the tab key will
complete the command. Let's look at an
12
example.  If I type host and press tab tab it
will reveal the three possible choices
13
for completion. If I want to complete
hostname, I'll just press again and tab
14
and that command is completed and I'll
just hit enter to run it.
15
Here's an example of a 12 character
command that you can run with just three
16
keystrokes.  Y P tab and enter. so
if we look at Y and hit tab a couple of
17
times, you see we have two choices yes
and ypdomain. So, if we already know this
18
we can hit y p tab and save
ourselves a lot of typing. As you can see
19
tab completion is great for expanding
commands. The good news is that it also
20
works on files and directories.
21
Let's look at the contents of our
directory here. We have a couple of files
22
named file1.txt and file2.txt
So let's start a command cat and
23
will do f  and tab which reveals the
common component and if we hit tab twice
24
it will reveal all of our possible choices.
So here we can do 1 and hit that and
25
that will catch the file. It's an empty
file there's nothing there but this is
26
just an example of how this would work.
Here is an example of how to use it with
27
directories. As you can see we have
directories that begin with D, desktop
28
Documents and Downloads. So if I wanted
to change into the desktop directory I
29
could type cd D e tab and enter and
that puts me in the desktop directory.
30
Programmable completion is a feature of
the bash shell that allows command
31
arguments to be auto completed. Not all
command line programs utilize this
32
feature so your mileage may vary. With
the commands it to use this feature you
33
can achieve complex command lines with
just a few keystrokes. We're going to
34
enable auto completion for our session
here on this Ubuntu server. We're going to
35
source /etc/bash_completion.
36
And if you wanted to
enable this for for your environment you
37
can put this in your bashrc and as a
matter of fact, it's it's already there
38
for my account, and if you wanted to
enable a globally you can edit
39
/etc/bash.bashrc.
40
and here we go he would just one comment
these lines to enable bash programmable
41
completion on an Ubuntu server.
The process is going to be very similar on
42
Fedora and other distributions;
slightly different but very similar. We
43
can use auto completion with the man
command to help speed up our way to the
44
proper documentation we're after.
45
So for example to autocomplete man
subdomain.conf we can type man subd
46
and hit the Tab key and hit
enter and it pulls up that man page.
47
Here's an example of git. I have the git
command installed and I have a git repo
48
in this directory so I'm going to type git
space P U and hit tab and then you can
49
see that the possible arguments to the
git are pull and push in this situation.
50
So we'll run git pull hit tab and hit Enter. So
to recap, tab completion can be used to
51
complete file names, directory names,
command names, and even arguments to
52
commands that use programmable
completion.

--- Repeat as Root ---

1
[ Music ]
2
If you ever forget to run a command with
root privileges you can simply repeat it
3
by using sudo !!.
Let's say if we were to
4
add a user and we get a permission
denied error, that's because we need to
5
run it with superuser privileges.
6
We can run sudo !!
or, as I like to say,
7
sudo space bang bang and you can see that
Sam was added. Here's another example. This
8
exclamation mark syntax that I'm using
is called an event designator. An event
9
designator references command in your
shell history. !! references the
10
most recent command, but one of my
favorite uses of the event designator is
11
to run the most recent command that
starts with a given string. For example,
12
if we run a few commands and we want to run
the previous command that starts with
13
u, we could type !u and hit enter. So we
can also do this with sudo, so sudo !w and
14
it shows that we're running with root
privileges. You can also use the su
15
command, so let's do this. Put in my root
password here.
16
Then, we'll get rid of this user using this way as
well.

--- Rerun a command starting with a string ---

1
[ Music ]
2
To run the most recent command that
begins with the given string, use an
3
exclamation mark followed by that string.
For example, to run the last command that
4
started with a d, type exclamation mark
d enter. Specify as much of the string
5
as required to make it unique. If you have
several commands in your recent history
6
that begin with the letter d, you can add
additional characters like
7
!du or !df.
I find myself using this technique to
8
get a status, perform some work that
might affect that status, and then to
9
recheck that status again. Here's an
example where data is being copied to a
10
file system and where the disk usage is
being checked. Let's change into a directory where
11
I plan to restore some data. I'll check
the disk usage with the df command and now
12
I will extract some data into this
directory and then
13
using !d I will recheck
the status.
14
You can see that about 400 megabytes of
data was extracted into this file system.
15
Here's an example that demonstrates a
situation where more than just one
16
character of a string is required to
recall the desired command. Let's create
17
a directory for my fictitious
application called myapp. Let's create a user
18
for this application and we'll make that
application owner the owner of the
19
directory here and if I run !m
the most recent command that
20
begins with m is mkdir so it
will run mkdir myapp. Now, if I want to run
21
chown to change the ownership I will
have to specify cho. If I just specify
22
c, cd will execute. If I specify ch,
chmod will execute. So to run chown I need to
23
specify !cho and
then I want to run the chmod command
24
specified just enough as required to
make that unique. I could specify more
25
if I wanted, for instance.

--- Reuse arguments ---

1
If you want to reuse all of the
arguments from your previous command in
2
the current command, use exclamation mark
asterisk (!*) or bang star. All the arguments
3
from the previous command is everything
on the command line except for the very
4
first thing that appeared there. So
typically you'll have a command followed
5
by one or more arguments and !*
takes all those arguments from the
6
previous command and inserts them
into your current command line. I find
7
this helpful when I'm working on a
series or a list of items like files or
8
directories or that kind of thing. It's
also helpful for correcting command
9
typos. Sometimes I mistype the word grep
I usually spell it grpe for some reason. So
10
this saves me some typing as I can just
retype the word grep and then follow
11
that with bang star (!*). Let's look at a
couple of examples here.  Let's create three
12
files and if we want to look at those
files with ls we can use this bang star (!*)
13
and then we can even, say, edit those
files.  This is file one. This is file two and
14
this is file three and let's even just cat
them all. And then when we're done with
15
the files maybe want to move them
somewhere. So !* /tmp/ and you can
16
see that those ended up in /tmp. So using
exclamation mark star (!*) really saved us a
17
lot of typing in this simple example.  Here's
another example. Let's just create three
18
directories and then let's change the
permissions on those directories and if
19
we will look at that we can see that that
happened and that's saved us a little
20
bit of typing.  Let's do another example
here.
21
grpe is not a command, so let me correct
that by typing grep
22
exclamation mark dollar sign (!$).We can use
one of our other tricks since I didn't
23
use sudo, I can use sudo !!
to get the entire previous line.

--- Strip out comments and blank lines ---

1
[Music]
2
We can strip out comments and blank lines
with a grep command. We'll use the
3
-E option to enable extended
regular expressions, v to invert our matches,
4
which means only print lines that do not
match our search pattern and we'll use
5
this search pattern. In regular
expressions the carrot symbol represents
6
the beginning of the line. So if we have
a line that begins with a pound sign
7
we're not going to print it since we
have the -v option enable. The
8
pipe in regular expressions means "or." So
if a blind begins with comments don't
9
print it or if we encounter a blank line
don't print it.  The blank line is
10
represented by carrot, again which means
the beginning of the line and dollar
11
sign which represents the opposite: the
end of a line. And then you would just
12
specify the file that you're working on
to strip out those comments and blank
13
lines. Let's look at an actual example. Let's
find a configuration file cat
14
httpd.conf and then you can see here at the
bottom there are comments in the middle
15
of the page you can see where there is a
blank line. So let's run our command on
16
this file. And then
17
now you can see that all the data
is compact, no comments ,no blank lines. So
18
before the file had 1,009
lines in it. but once we strip out
19
the comments and blank lines it only
contains 238 lines that contain real
20
configuration information.
21
[ Music ]

--- Reuse the last item from the previous command ---

1
[ Music ]
2
Many times workflows can revolve around
a single item. That item might be a file
3
or directory, a user or even something else.
4
Time and time again I find myself
needing to run another command against
5
the last item on the previous command
line.
6
To access that item in your current
command use bang-dollar or
7
!$.
8
Let's look at an example here. I create a
directory and what I typically want to
9
do after I create a directory is change
into that directory. So I can access the
10
last item on the command line, on the
previous command line, by using
11
!?. So now I'm in that directory that
I created. Let's do this. I have a backup
12
file here I'm going to unzip and then
once I'm done with that, I want to
13
delete it. So a short cut, again is to use
!$ and also sometimes I find
14
myself making mistakes. So I could type a
spelling and I realized, "Oh that's
15
not good let me get rid of that." And then
I can use that to correct my spelling as
16
well. Here's an example where we're going
to run multiple commands to create and
17
configure a user account. We'll supply the
user to this command here.  Let's call this
18
account Jimmy. That created the user. Now
what I want to do is set a password for
19
the user and again a to access jimmy I
just type !$. in this instance I'll get
20
him a really secure password of "jimmy"
and then I want to make sure that he
21
changes his password at least every 60
days, so I'll run this command
22
and let me make sure I got that right. Let me
just lists his properties on this
23
account there.
24
To recap, you can use the last item on
the previous command using !$
25
or !$ this
little short cut comes in really handy
26
when you're working on a particular item
and you need to run multiple commands
27
against that item.
28
[ Music ]

--- Connecting to Linux over the network using SSH ---

In this lesson, you're going to learn
how to login to a Linux system
and we'll talk a little bit about SSH,
what that is and what is
the SSH clients you need to use.
If you have Linux installed on hardware
that you have physical access to,
or you have Linux installed
in virtual hardware
like a virtual machine
running in VirtualBox
then you can connect directly
to the Linux server.
In this example, we'll be looking at Linux
running in a virtual machine.
In virtualbox, you can highlight
your Linux virtual machine
and click the green button to start it up.
We'll give it a few seconds here to boot.
Each Linux login screen
will be a little different.
In this case, you're given a
list of users to choose from.
And when you click on that user,
you can enter in the
password for that user
and click the login button.
Now I'm going to select Jason,
typed my password,
I could either hit enter here
or click on the login button.
That's all there is to it.
Just enter your username and password.
In this example you're given
a graphical user interface.
The Linux desktop.
In order to interact with the command line,
you need to start the
terminal emulator application.
In CentOS, this is located
in the applications
and then systems tools menu.
Here you see terminal,
just click on it.
In the next lesson, we'll start
interacting with the command line.
For now you just need to know
where the terminal application is,
so you can start it.
And to exit it, you simply type exit.
To log out of CentOS,
go to the system menu and log out.
On some Linux systems,
you'll be prompted for username.
In this case you have to
type in your username.
I'm going to login as Jason.
So I'll type Jason and I can either
hit login or hit the enter button.
Then I'll type in my password.
Let's see what it's like to login
to Ubuntu on a Linux system.
We'll highlight the virtual machine
and instead of clicking
the green arrow this time,
we can right click and click start.
Sometimes these are
configured to auto logins,
you may not even have to enter
username and password in,
will just be given the desktop.
In this case, you see a menu
again with a list of users
that you can select and
then enter the password
for that user, hit enter to login.
I'm going to select the
VirtualBoximages.com user
and that username is actually admin user
and the password is admin user.
What is displayed in the menu
is the description of the account.
You can see that the Ubuntu desktop
is different than CentOS.
Again each Linux distribution
is going to look slightly different
and function slightly differently.
Going to exit out of the web browser here.
You see a list of applications
on the left hand side of your screen,
you can click on one of those to start it.
If you don't find what you're looking for,
you can click on the button
in the top left and
type in a search term.
This case we're looking for
the terminal applications,
so type in terminal.
And click on the terminal.
And there we are at the command line.
And again to exit the terminal application,
just type in the word exit.
In this desktop environment
to log out or shut down,
go to the top right hand corner
and click the gear icon.
I'm going to shut down
and when prompted,
I'll click on shut down again.
Sometimes you'll be presented
with a text prompt to login
instead of a graphical user interface.
Again just type in your
username and password.
If you installed a server distribution
instead of a desktop distribution,
this is the type of login prompt
that you'd expect to see.
Again to exit, just type the word exit.
I login as the admin user
with the password of admin user.
If you're going to connect to a
Linux system over the network,
more than likely you're going to use SSH.
SSH stands for Secure Shell.
SSH is a network protocol.
It's primary purpose is
to allow you to connect
from one system to another
system securely over a network.
In the past you would use telnet.
SSH has replaced telnet
as it's more secure counterpart.
Telnet is practically obsolete today
but you may encounter if you have
to connect to a legacy system.
We've already touched
on terminal emulators
a couple of times in
this course already.
In order to connect to Linux
over the network,
we're going to need a terminal emulator
that also acts as an SSH client.
For windows, the most popular
SSH client and terminal emulator
is a program called, PuTTY.
To get PuTTY, you can open up a web browser
and type in P. U. T. T. Y.
The first result in Google
is the download page.
And you only need putty.exe at this point.
Going to save the file.
Now I'm going to open the file
and run the program.
In the hostname or IP address box,
I'm going to type in the network name
of my Linux server.
In this example, I'm using
l. i. n. u. x. s. v. r.
Whoever created your account
on the Linux server
will be able to give you the details
of the host name or the IP address to use.
This could be a server at work,
it could be a shared host account.
so maybe you're SSHing into
your bluehost.com
or hostgator.com SSH account.
Leave the default port at 22
unless you are specifically
given another port to use.
Click 'open' to start the connection.
The first time you connect to a server
you'll get a security alert
and you can simply just click yes on this.
This will only happen the first time
you log into a server.
Now you can enter your username
and password to login.
Type exit when you're done.
Putty has many features and options.
One of the things you can do
is specify your username
in putty before you try to connect.
On the right hand side, click on data
and then fill in the auto login field.
I'm going to save this as a session
so that I can quickly log into
the server again in the future.
I'll give it a name and
click the save button.
And then when I double click it,
it will start a connection to that server.
You'll see that putty has already
provided the Linux server our username
and now, also we have to do
is enter in our password.
I'm going to highlight my saved session.
Click load and change the font.
Go to the left hand side,
click on appearance under window,
and then I'll change the font.
Make it nice large so we can see.
You may have been given
a IP address for your server.
So if you don't have a name
but an IP, you can use that as well.
Again, the first time you login
to a server or a particular IP address,
it will ask you to confirm the host key.
Just click yes.
Again, putty knows our username
because we've specified it
and now we simply enter in our password.
In order to connect to a
Linux system from Mac,
you need to start the terminal application.
This is located in the
applications folder
and there's a sub folder
and they're called utilities.
You'll find terminal.app in that directory.
Once the terminal application is started,
you can use the SSH command
to initiate a connection.
Commands are case sensitive,
so be sure to use lowercase 'ssh'.
In this example, my username
on my Mac desktop is Jason
and on the Linux server, it is also Jason.
So I'm just going to type 'ssh linuxsvr'.
Again just like in windows
you'll be prompted about the host key
and you only have to accept this
the first time you connect.
So I'll type in yes.
And then I'll be connected
to the Linux host.
To exit, type exit.
If you want to, or need to
connect to the remote system
using a different username,
you type in 'ssh' space,
that username,
the '@' symbol, which is - shift+2,
and the name of the Linux server.
In this case, I'm going to use admin user.
And admin user is the password.
Now we are logged into the Linux system.
And I'll type exit to get back.
If you are using Linux at work,
you might connect to a server
that ends in '.your company name.com'.
Again just use the hostname or IP address
that you were given to use.
You'll see we're connecting to
an IP address works as well.
To recap, if you have physical
access to a Linux system,
or if that Linux system is running
in a virtual machine as in VirtualBox,
then you can log into it directly.
Sometimes you'll be presented
with a graphical interface to login to,
sometimes it will be just a textual prompt.
If you're going to log into a
Linux system over the network,
you're going to use SSH.
For windows users, I recommend
using PuTTY as your SSH client.
For Mac users, use the built in
terminal application
and the command line ssh client.

--- Connecting to a Linux Virtual Machine Over the Network ---

The purpose of this lecture
is to answer some questions
about connecting to a Linux system
over a network.
Specifically this lesson
will cover connecting
to a virtual machine
over a network.
If you're using a virtual machine where
you are connecting directly to it
or you have physical access
to a Linux system
or you were able to connect
to your Linux system
over the network successfully,
feel free to skip this lesson.
In this lesson you'll learn
all the steps involved
in connecting to a virtual machine
that is running Linux over the network.
We'll talk about the settings needed in
VirtualBox to allow
for network connections.
You'll also learn how to check
if the Linux system is ready
to accept network connections
and if not, how to prepare
for those network connections.
If you're trying to
access a virtual machine
that is running on your system,
the easiest way is to simply
start up the virtual machine
and interact with its VirtualBox.
For this course there really
is no need to connect
to the virtual machine over the network.
I really recommend just typing
into the virtual machine
directly for this course.
Here's an example.
I've went ahead and started VirtualBox
on my local machine or my host system
and I have a virtual box that is running.
I'm simply going to open this virtual box
and you can see that it's in a window,
in a virtual box window.
You can see the menu options
from VirtualBox itself.
So what I'm going to do is
simply click into this virtual machine
and then interact with it
as if it were a real physical
Linux machine that I'm
sitting in front of.
You know, I can do things
like start a terminal
or start a web browser
and I can you know,
just type right into this system.
And that's really how I recommend
you go through this course.
But again, this lesson is for those of you
that want to connect to a virtual machine
like this over the network.
If you are one of those people
that want to connect to the virtual machine
that is running on your computer,
you need to do a couple of things
that you may or may not have been
introduced to at this point.
Unless you have a
compelling reason to do so,
I would suggest waiting until you finish
the other lessons in this course
before continuing with this lesson.
The first thing you need to check
is the network configuration
of the virtual machine and VirtualBox.
Make sure that the
virtual machine is stopped,
otherwise you will not be able
to change the configuration
if you need to do so.
I'm going to highlight the virtual machine
and click on settings.
So here's the virtual machine
that I'm working with
and I can click on settings up here.
Or I can even right click
and click settings here.
What we want to do is make sure
that the network adapter is set to bridged.
Go here and click on network.
And we can see that it says
it's set to NAT,
it's attached to NAT,
so I'm just going to
select 'Bridged Adapter'.
You can make this work with NAT
in conjunction with port forwarding,
but it's just simpler to use
bridged networking in most cases,
especially if you're working
on a typical home network.
Bridged networking allows
the virtual machine
to exist on the network
just like any other machine.
It makes it most act like actual hardware.
So now that you have
bridged networking configured,
you can go ahead and
start the virtual machine.
I'll click OK to save my changes.
And right click and start.
Unless auto login is configured,
you'll have to enter a
user name and password
to get access to the Linux system.
So to connect to a Linux system
over the network,
you need to make sure that an
SSH server is installed and running.
And we can check that by
looking at the process table.
Let's go ahead and open a terminal.
We can look at the process table
by using the ps command.
In this example I'm going to use 'ps -ef'
I'm gonna pipe that to grep
and I'm looking for 'sshd',
which is the SSH daemon or
the SSH server process.
So in this case no sshd process is running.
We just see the grep command
that we just ran,
but no sshd process.
Let's check to see if it's even installed.
This is an Ubuntu system,
so I'm going to use the dpkg command
to look for an SSH server.
I'm going to use '-l' to list
the installed packages
and I'm going to grep for 'ssh-server'.
If this were a RedHat based system,
I would run 'rpm -qa'
to query the packages that
are installed and list them all
and then grep for 'ssh-server'.
Since this is not a RedHat based system,
rpm isn't installed.
But at any rate, when
we listed the packages,
we had no SSH server packages returned,
so that means SSH is not installed.
On Ubuntu system what I need to do first is
run sodu apt-get update.
After I've done the apt-get update,
I'm going to run
'sudo apt-get install openssh-server'
and 'openssh-client'.
I'll make sure that the
SSH client is installed
so I can connect to other
systems from the system
if I need or want to.
I'll go ahead and answer yes
to any of these questions here.
And in just a second you'll
see that it gets installed.
If I were on a RedHat based system
like RedHat or CentOS or Fedora,
I would use 'sudo yum install openssh-server openssh-clients'.
Remember that the important thing here is
that you install software
with root privileges.
So if sudo isn't configured,
you would need to su to the root user
and then run the apt-get or yum commands.
So now let's look at the process table
and check for sshd.
Okay now that we can see
that sshd is in fact running.
If it wasn't running I would start it
with 'sudo service ssh start'.
That's when Ubuntu system.
On RedHat, it's slightly different.
It's 'sshd start'.
But in our case, it's running,
so I don't need to do this.
So now that SSHD is installed and running,
we need to know the IP address
of this virtual machine.
To get that information,
we can run the 'sbin/ip addr' command.
In this example, there are
two network interfaces.
You can see one colon
and then some information
and then a line that starts with two colon
and that is the second network interface.
The first network interface
is a virtual network interface
that will be present on all systems.
It's called the loopback device.
It allows the system to
communicate with itself.
Also, it always has the
IP address of 127.0.0.1
The other network interface is the one
that we want to pay attention to.
So we'll look at the inet line here
and what appears before
the forward slash is the IP address.
On my system, it's 10.0.0.6
On your system it's probably
going to be something else.
Finally let's go ahead
and confirm our username
with the whoami command.
And in this case, it's adminuser.
Many times SSH access
is disabled for the root user
for security reasons.
So you'll have to connect to the system
with a different user.
So if you try to connect to a system
as root and it doesn't work,
this is probably why.
You'll also need to know
the password for the account.
And in this case on my system
with the image I'm using,
the username is adminuser and
the password is adminuser as well.
Again this username and password
will vary from system to system of course.
My physical computer or my host computer
is also running Linux.
In your case it will probably
be Windows or Mac.
I'm going to open up the terminal
and attempt to connect to the Linux system
that is running in VirtualBox.
If you're on a Mac,
this is the exact same process.
Let me go ahead and open up my terminal.
I'm going to run the SSH command.
I'm going to run ssh
and then provide the username
on the remote system.
So on my local system, my username is jason
but that's not what is
on the remote system,
so I have to supply it explicitly.
So I'm going to type in - adminuser.
Use the @ symbol
and then I'm going to take the IP address
that we got from the ip addr command.
So in this example it's 10.0.0.6
And of course on your system,
that will probably be something different.
It prompts me to verify the key,
I'm going to say yes.
And then I need to enter
the adminuser's password.
And I hit enter
and here I am, I'm logged
into the virtual machine.
We're going to go ahead just
exit out of the virtual machine
and I'm going to demonstrate
the use of PuTTY
for the people connecting with
PuTTY on windows machines.
I'm just going to start PuTTY,
here I have PuTTY installed
on my Linux system.
To connect via PuTTY, I'll just click
in the hostname section here
and enter the IP address
of our virtual machine.
In this example it's 10.0.0.6
And I'll go ahead and click open.
Here you can see that the
PuTTY is asking you to confirm the host key
and we'll go ahead and click accept.
And now we need to type in a username,
which is adminuser for my system.
And then the password.
And then so now you can see
that we've successfully
logged in to this virtual machine
over the network using PuTTY.
In this lesson you learned how to connect
to a Linux virtual machine
over the network.
You learned that first you need to
set the network adapter settings
to bridged networking mode.
You also learned how to make
sure that an SSH server
is installed and running.
Next you were able to get
the IP address of the Linux system
by using the 'ip addr' command.
Keep in mind that you may
need to log into the system
using an account other
than the root account.
Finally you used the desired
account and IP address
to connect to the system over the network
using a command line utility
such as SSH on a Mac Linux system
or using PuTTY on a windows system.

--- Installing NGINX, MySQL, PHP, and Wordpress on Ubuntu ---

In this lesson you'll learn how to install WordPress on a button to.
For the demonstration here I'm going to be using a 1 to 20 zero four because it's an ltz release.
By the way, LTZ stands for long term support every two years upon to releases in Ltz version and guarantees
to support that release for at least five years.
You know, it's an ltz release because it will be labeled as such, plus it will be an even number major
version representing the year of the release with a minor version of 0.04 representing the month of
the release.
Of course, the fourth month of the year is April, so upon to 20.04 is an LTZ release that was made
available in April of 2020.
Other examples of LTZ releases include 14.0 for 16.0 for 18.4, of course, 20.04 and so on.
There are more frequent releases that happen about every six months, and those are really considered
development releases.
Those development releases are only supported for nine months at a time.
So if you're going to be running a bunch too in production, I highly recommend using an Ltz release
like we're doing here.
I created a virtual machine in VirtualBox and installed a bunch to there.
If you're also using a virtual machine, you'll want to make sure to configure that virtual machine.
To use bridged networking and VirtualBox, you can go to the settings for the virtual machine.
Then click on network.
And where you see attached to make sure that it is set to bridge the adapter.
Typically this is set to Nat by default.
But again, you can just come in here, change it to bridge to adapter and then you'll need to select
the network interface you are using on your physical machine.
In my case, I'm using wi fi, so I'm going to make sure that is selected.
If you are using different virtualization software such as VMware, just go to the network settings
and make sure you are using bridged networking.
What bridged networking does is it allows the virtual machine to appear on your network just like another
physical machine.
It also allows us to access the virtual machine over the network, which will become very important
near the end of this process.
WordPress is a web application and that means we need to install a web server.
The two most popular choices for web servers on Linux are Apache and Indian Xe.
Until recently, Apache was used to host the majority of websites on Linux, but Engine X is now the
most popular web server choice on Linux.
So let's go ahead and use Internet X to host our WordPress website.
Before we install any software on an open two system, we first need to update our local list of available
packages and to package versions by running sudo apt update.
If you are logged in as the root user, you don't have to use sudo, you could simply run apt update.
But I'm logged into the system as a normal non root user.
In order to elevate my privileges to superuser or root privileges I need to proceed the command with
sudo because we'll be managing software and services throughout this lesson.
We'll continue to use Sudo as those actions require superuser privileges.
So what would happen if you didn't run?
APT update.
Well, you might encounter a situation where the specific package you are attempting to install is not
available.
Let's say the last time you ran apt update was two or three weeks ago.
At that time.
Let's also say that in gen x one point 18.0 was available to be installed.
However, since then a bug was fixed and version 1.8 10.1 replaced.
Version one point 18.0.
If you were to try and install engine x without running apt update first your local system would attempt
to download the old unavailable version and you'll get an error by running apt update your local system
will download a list of all the current packages and versions available.
So when installing software on a12 systems, it's best to get in the habit of running APT update before
performing the actual software installation.
With that explanation out of the way, we can go ahead and install engine x.
Again, installing software requires root privileges.
So I've used the pseudo command here to give me those root privileges.
Now it's asking me if I want to continue with the installation I do.
So I'm going to type Y and hit enter to let the installation continue.
By the way, you can use the y option to apt install to automatically answer yes to this question.
I'll show you that when we install our next piece of software as I want you to see both methods at this
point, engine X is installed and we can check to see if it's running with sys CTL.
Sure enough, it's running and is set to start on boot.
This line that I've highlighted here on your screen tells us that it is indeed active and running.
Now, the word that I've highlighted here tells us that the service is enabled to start on boot.
If you see disabled here, that means the service will not automatically start on boot to make it start
on boot.
What you would do would be to run sudo system CTL enable followed by the service name.
In this case, that would be engine x.
By the way, if the output from sys CTL will not fit on your screen completely, it will display the
output using a pager.
Here, you'll see that there is some information that scrolls off to the right of the screen, and that's
indicated by those arrows at the bottom of the screen.
Now, to exit out of the pager and return back to the command line, simply type queue.
Even though the service is reported as running.
Let's check to see if it's actually working.
We can do this with a command as it's an easy way to make HTTP requests.
By the way, the IP address of 127.0.0.1 is a loopback address.
It's a special IP address that a Linux system uses to communicate with itself.
You can also do this.
Local host is the hostname that represents this computer that I'm using right now.
The IP address for local host is 127.0.0.1.
So running kernel 127.0.1 or curl local host gives us the same results.
Anyway, what you see here returned is html.
Curl doesn't interpret that.
HTML like a web browser would.
We're just making a request and receiving the raw output from the web server.
And this is enough information to let us know that Engine X is working properly.
Now, WordPress needs a place to store its data, such as the text of a blog post, the name of the
author, the date and time when it was posted, etc. All of this type of data is stored in a database
and we're going to use a MySQL database to store that data.
Notice that I'm using the dash y option to apt install so that I don't have to wait for apt to prompt
me for confirmation.
You can think of dash y as standing for yes or answer yes.
Now that my SQL is installed, let's make sure that it's running.
By the way, the package name was my SQL Server, but the service name installed by that package is
my SQL.
That's why I'm using my SQL in the system CTL command.
It indicates it appears to be running and enabled on boot as well.
Let's create a database that WordPress can use.
Now we need to create a database user that can access that specific database to create a user will go
ahead and use the MySQL client.
This create user statement creates a user and sets the password for that user.
Here you can see the username is WordPress at local host and the password is WordPress.
One, two, three.
This grant statement allows full permissions to the WordPress database, to the WordPress database user
to exit out of the MySQL client type exit and hit enter.
Now let's test to see if our WordPress user can access the WordPress database to do this.
We'll run the MySQL command again and tell it to use the WordPress user to access the WordPress database.
The Dash U option allows us to specify a database user.
In this case, that user is WordPress.
The IP option will make my SQL prompt us for the password.
Finally, we're going to specify the database we want to connect to.
Now I'm going to type the password of WordPress 1 to 3 for the WordPress database user.
If you see the my SQL prompt, then everything is working just as we want it to.
However, if you get an access denied error at this point, try the command again and make sure that
you are typing in the password.
Exactly.
Let me show you what it looks like when you mistype the password.
I'm just going to arrow up to run the command again and I'm going to miss type the password.
If you try this a couple of times in, the password is still not working.
Then perhaps there was a typing mistake when you created the user's password.
To fix that, we'll need to run the MySQL command as root and update the password on the account.
So let me show you what that looks like.
Here.
We're using a set password statement to set the password for the WordPress user.
Now we can try the password again.
If you make a mistake in the name of the database, you'll also get an error.
And here's what that looks like.
So let's say I accidentally hit the character three before I hit Enter.
And of course, WordPress three is not a database that we've created, so we'll get an error.
If you get an error, always just check your typing.
Now, again, here's what it looks like when everything is working correctly.
All right.
Well, go ahead and exit out of our MySQL client because WordPress is written in PHP, we need to install
PHP specifically.
We're going to install PHP FPM, FPM stands for fast CGI Process Manager.
In a moment, we'll configure engine X to hand off all of its PHP requests to PHP PHP for processing.
In addition to the main PHP service, we need to install some additional PHP modules.
For example, WordPress needs to communicate with MySQL, so we'll install the MySQL module for PHP.
You'll notice that I've just added the PHP MySQL package name to the end of the command line.
You can install multiple packages at once with APT, so you don't have to have one apt command per package
installation.
Anyway, we also need the kernel php module which is used to make remote requests.
We'll also need the NB string module, which allows UTF eight characters to be handled properly.
NB stands for Multi Byte and UTF eight characters are multi byte characters.
Next we need the image magic PHP module to handle things such as image resizing.
Next we'll install the XML PHP module, which of course provides XML support.
And finally we'll add the PHP zip module which is used to unzip plugins themes and WordPress update
packages.
Now that we have PHP, FPM and all the required modules installed, let's make sure that the php fpm
service is running.
I'm not exactly sure of the name of this service, but the good news is that I don't have to know the
name.
I'm guessing that it will start with PHP, but after that I'm really not sure.
So what I'm going to do here is hit the tab key twice.
Now I'm presented with all the possible choices that begin with php.
I'm interested in php fpm.
So PHP 7.4 FPM service is most likely what I'm looking for so I can continue typing the rest of that
name out or I can type the next character or two and hit tab again.
And that's what I'm going to do.
I'll type seven and then hit tab.
Because there is only one match, it is auto completed.
This process of using tab is called command line completion or tab completion.
Now this isn't something that is unique to the system CTL Command.
You'll find you can use this with many different commands plus file names.
At any rate, the PHP RPM service appears to be running.
Next we need to tell engine x to send all PHP requests to php fpm.
What we're going to do is update the default configuration that gets installed when the engine x package
gets installed.
Let's move into that configuration directory first.
The name of the default configuration file is aptly named default.
Personally, I like to make a backup copy of configuration files before I edit them.
This way, if I make a mistake or can't seem to get this service back online quickly, I can quickly
and easily copy the original configuration file back into place, restart the service and be in a known
good state.
Now it's time to edit the file and just feel free to use your favorite editor.
Personally, I love them and would normally use that, but there is a learning curve to them.
As a matter of fact, I have an entire course on just them itself, but right now I'm going to go ahead
and use Nano because it's a very simple editor that can be used without any additional training.
So if you don't have a favorite editor, just use Nano like I'm doing here, or if you're a Vim person,
go ahead and use that.
Or if Emacs is your favorite editor, use that again.
It doesn't matter which editor you use.
We just need a way to make changes to this file.
Let's go to the line of configuration that starts with index.
I'm not even going to use nano search feature here.
I'm just going to arrow down until I see that line.
Here we go.
You'll see a note above this line that says add index PHP to the list if you are using PHP.
Well, we're using PHP, so let's do that.
So after the word index here, type index, dot php.
Make sure to leave a space before and after indexed PHP.
This line of configuration tells engine x which files to look for when a client requests an index of
a directory.
We want to make sure that indexed PHP comes first so that if a PHP application lives in that directory,
it will get served.
So order is important here.
So again, this line should start out index space, indexed PHP space.
And then so on the next piece of configuration we need to change is on the line that starts with tri
underscore files.
So I'll just arrow down again and here we find it.
What we're going to do is replace equals 404 with forward slash index dot php.
Dollar sign is underscore args dollar sign args.
Be very careful with your typing here.
Make sure you type everything as you see here on your screen.
A couple of common mistakes that could be made would be to add additional spaces or use capital letters.
Also, make sure you leave the semicolon at the end of the line.
Don't delete that.
That needs to be there as well.
Now this line of configuration allows you to use pretty perma links in WordPress for example, instead
of a page on your WordPress site.
Having a path of forward slash question mark p equals one.
It could have a nice pretty path of forward slash hello world.
Next, we need to come down a few more lines and start commenting.
The example PHP configuration.
So we'll start on commenting here.
Comments and engine x configuration files.
Start with a pound sign.
Now some people call them hash signs, hashes or numbers signs.
No matter what you call them, just place your cursor over the pound sign or hash sign and then hit
the delete key.
Or you can place your cursor just one character to the right and hit the backspace key.
So just do whatever works for you.
We're using PHP, FPM, so we'll uncomment this section.
However, you'll see the next couple of lines that refer to PHP, CGI, and we're not using PHP CGI.
So we'll leave those comments intact.
We'll not delete those.
However, we do need to make sure to uncomment the closing bracket for this configuration stanza.
If we don't, we'll get a syntax error.
Those are all the changes we need to make.
So now we can type control X to exit type Y because yes, we do want to save our changes and then hit
enter to accept the same file name because we made a configuration change to engine x, we need to check
the configuration for errors.
When you run Engine X with the RT option, it tests the configuration file for syntax errors.
If it finds one, it will tell you about it and give you a chance to fix it.
If you don't test the configuration and it has an error in it, when you go to restart engine X, it
will fail and your web server will be offline while you fix your mistake.
Even though a syntax check doesn't guarantee that we haven't broken anything, it does give us the peace
of mind that Engine X will most likely restart when we go to do so.
So as you see here on your screen, Engine X reports to us that the syntax is okay.
Now we need to tell engine X to reload or re read its configuration.
Let's make sure Engine X is still working after our configuration change.
Okay.
Great.
It doesn't appear that we've broken anything.
So now what we need to do is return to our home directory.
If you type CD without any arguments, it changes to your home directory.
And we can confirm this by checking our present working directory with p wd.
You'll notice that our prompt displays our present working directory.
For example, when we were in internet sites dash available that displayed as our prompt.
Now that we're in the home directory, a tilde is displayed as our prompt and the tilde is a shortcut
in Linux to represent your home directory.
Now it's time to download WordPress.
One way to do that directly from the command line is to use Curl.
We've already used Curl a couple of times to make web requests to our local system, but now we're going
to use it to download a file.
The DASH Capital OH option causes the file to be saved locally with the same name that was used on the
remote system.
I'm downloading a specific version of WordPress because it's the current version at the time of this
recording, and I know it works with the steps I've shown you here.
It allows you to follow along with me.
Exactly.
That said, WordPress does provide a way to download the latest version of its software by using the
URL of WordPress dot org forward slash latest star gz.
As you probably know, I can't predict the future.
So if you download a later version of WordPress than the one I'm demonstrating with here, then you're
on your own if you have any issues.
It's probably best just to use the version I'm using here and then upgrade WordPress via the web interface
and I'll show you how to do that in just a minute.
Now that we've downloaded our file, let's extract the contents of that file or of that archive.
The X option tells TAR to extract the contents of the archive.
The V option stands for verbose and it makes tar display the files it's operating on.
And finally, the F option tells TAR to operate on the file that follows.
Now let's move the WordPress application files to the document route of the web server.
We're going to use the word press web interface to perform the application configuration.
This means WordPress will attempt to write a configuration file to the disk on our Linux server.
Also, if we want to allow WordPress to update themes, plug ins and even WordPress itself, it will
need write permissions to do so.
The web server runs as the WW data user and group, so let's make the WW data user the owner of all
the application files and make WW data the group for all those files as well.
The Dash capital R option stands for recursive.
This means the ownership of every file and directory at and below the specified path will be changed.
Let's go ahead and take a quick look in that directory.
It appears that every file in directory is owned by the WWE data user and that every file and directory
is in the WWE Data Group.
Now we need to determine the IP address of our server.
We can see all of the addresses assigned to all of the network interfaces with the IP space, a command.
The first network interface is named ELO and it's the loopback interface.
You'll see that it has an IP address of 127.0.0.1 and we've already talked about this special IP address
earlier.
As a reminder, this is how a Linux system can communicate with itself via the network stack.
Since this is an internal only address, this is not the IP address we're looking for.
Typically, the second network interface listed in this output is the one that has the system's primary
IP address assigned to it.
On this system it's named E and P zero SE three.
It might be named something totally different on your system.
For example, it might be named ETA zero or EMP one, SE two or something else.
The name is not important, but the IP address is.
The IP address for this system is 172.20.10.14.
The chances that this is also your IP address are very, very, very slim.
So make a note of your IP address on your system.
Now, what we're going to do is take your IP address and enter it into a web browser.
At this point, you should see a page that has the WordPress logo and a series of languages for you
to select.
It should look something very much like you see here on your screen.
If you get a timeout error or an unreachable error, then first make sure you type in the IP address
correctly.
If you're using a third party provider to host your server, then look for the server's public IP address
using your provider software or web interface.
For example, if your server is an instance, A.
S assigns a public IP address that is mapped to the primary IP address of your server.
So you won't see the Internet facing public IP address directly on your server.
To get that IP address, you would look in the A US web console.
For example, if you're in this situation, then type in the public IP address of your server into the
browser and try again.
If you still get a timeout or unreachable error, then make sure that there isn't a firewall blocking
access to Port eight zero of your server.
You'll have to consult your specific provider's documentation on how to unblock Port 80.
So I'm going to select my language, which is English and click continue.
At this point, we can go ahead and click.
Let's go.
The database name that we created is WordPress, so there's nothing to change there.
The username that we use for our database was WordPress and the database password for that user is a
WordPress.
One, two, three.
The database host is this host.
So we can leave it at local host and we do not need to modify the table prefix.
So we'll go ahead and click on Submit.
If you get an unable to write to the WP configure PHP file error, then you need to fix the permissions
with a PH own command from earlier in the lesson.
Once your screen looks like this, go ahead and click run the installation.
Now we need to fill out this simple form about our blog.
So we'll give our blog a site title of my fun blog.
Now we need to pick a username that we'll use to administer our WordPress site.
Now I don't recommend using the username of admin because every hacker on the internet tries to access
every WordPress website using the admin user.
So pick something else.
It could be anything.
It could be your name.
It could be some set of characters that only you know or whatever.
Here, I'm just going to use my name so my username will be Jason.
WordPress suggests a very strong password here and I'd recommend that you use that especially for production.
But I'm just going to go ahead and make a very weak password here named Jason 1 to 3.
And if you do something like this, you'll have to click confirm the use of a weak password.
And then here you go ahead and enter your email address.
Finally click install WordPress.
Now we can log in with the username and password that you chose.
And of course, in my case, it was Jason.
Jason.
One, two, three.
At this point, we see the administration dashboard for WordPress.
You can notice here that I have some updates on my system and I suspect you will as well.
So you can go ahead and click on updates and select what you want to update.
I'm just going to update this plug in for now and click update plug ins.
And what's going to happen is WordPress is going to download the update to that plug in and right the
files for that plug into the disk on our Linux system.
So again, this is why we change the ownership to w w w dash data.
Let's take a quick look at our site.
So I'm actually going to right click here and open up in a new tab.
And so this is what our visitors see when they visit our website.
Let's go ahead and click on Hello World.
You'll notice that we have a pretty URL here at the top, and that is because we performed that Engine
X configuration earlier in the lesson.
So I'm going to switch back to the dashboard, go to settings and click on Perma Links and then I like
having just the post name.
So that's what I'm going to select and then I'm going to save my changes.
I'll go back to my fun blog here.
I'll click on that and then click on this Hello World Post.
And now you can see that the pretty permalink is Hello World.
Of course, the goal of this project was to learn how to deploy WordPress, so I'll leave any further
exploring of WordPress up to you.

--- Conclusion - Congratulations and Thank You! ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
Congratulations on making it to the end of the course!
We've covered a lot of topics along the way.
First, you started out by learning what Linux is, what a linux distribution is
and how to choose the right one.
You'll also learn how to get access to a
Linux system as well as a couple of
different methods for installing Linux from there we talked about the Linux.
File system hierarchy and what sets it
apart from other operating systems.
Next, you started working at the command line. You learn how to easily navigate Linux
from the command line and how to create
and manage files and directories.
You tackle the tough subject of linux
permissions. As well you continue working
on your command line skills by
customizing your command line
environment and using aliases. You learn
how to get help from commands and how to
use the built-in man pages. You also
learn how to search for and find data on
a Linux system by searching by name and
in the contents of files. You learned all
about input, output, redirection and
command pipelining. We talked about the
various types of users found on a Linux
system including the very important
superuser also known as root. You learned about users and groups and how to manage them.
You also learn how to share files and
directories with others. And we even
talked about switching users, running
processes as others, as well as when and
why to do that. Sort of thing we've been
switch gears and focus more on Linux
system administration techniques. You
learned all about the Linux boot process.
You also learn where to find log
files generated by lenox and how to use
those to troubleshoot problems. We also
talked about managing disks and filesystems.
You learn how to install
applications and manage software too.
We covered networking concepts that apply to Linux administration including how to
configure network interfaces and how to
transfer files over the network and in between systems.
Finally we'll talked about ways to automate tasks on Linux servers.
You learned about process and job management. How to schedule and automate jobs.
Finally, you learned the basics of shell
scripting so you can simplify complex tasks.
By the way, those are all the
topics we covered.
Those were just a few of the highlights.
like you learned along the way. Again, I
want to congratulate you for staying the
course, making it all the way to the end
covering all the material, and most
importantly improving your Linux skills.

--- Download the Slides Used in the Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
