

=== Course Introduction ===


--- Introduction and Course Overview ---

Narrator: I want to give you a very brief overview
of what to expect in the course.
Because there's a bit of setup you need to perform
before you start scripting,
I'm going to keep this short
so you can get going as soon as possible.
The first thing you're going to do in this course
is to set up a local lab environment.
You'll learn how to quickly create Linux virtual machines
using a tool called Vagrant.
You can think of this environment
that you're going to be building
as a safe sandbox to play in
where anything you do with your scripts
will not modify or hurt your existing computer.
Next, you're going to write a script
that adds local users to a Linux system.
For your first script,
you're going to learn all the shell scripting basics
to make it work
including how to name shell scripts,
what permissions to use on them,
how to use variables in your scripts,
how to use the if statement,
what shell built-ins are
as well as how and when to use those shell built-ins.
You'll then build upon what you've learned
by writing yet another script.
The second script you write will have you using pipes
to transform data into the exact format you want it in.
You'll also learn how to process
command line arguments to your script,
use special positional parameters
and even generate random passwords.
As you continue to write more scripts,
you'll learn even more,
such as how to use for loops and while loops
and also you'll become very good
at controlling and manipulating
the various types of input and output.
You'll also discover how to conform
to good Linux programming conventions
by appropriately handling errors
and using proper exit statuses.
Again, I wanted to keep this introduction very brief
because we have lots to cover,
so let's get started.

--- Course Downloads ---

Instructor: During this course I'm going to be performing
a lot of demonstrations.
You'll watch me write several different shell scripts
throughout the course
and I wanna make sure you can easily follow
along with me, as well as have access
to those demonstration scripts for future reference.
That's why you'll find the scripts you see me writing
in the course download.
The download also contains copies
of the practice exercise instructions
as well as the resulting scripts
or answers to those practice problems.
With that said, it's very important
that you take just a couple
of minutes to download the file for this course.
If you're taking this course on the Udemy platform
you'll see a link to the course download
in the resources section of the lesson.
When you first start watching this video
there should be some text in the upper left hand corner
of the video that reads "Resources available".
You can also move your mouse
to the top left corner and it should appear.
When you click on Resources available
you will see a link to a file named shellclass.zip.
Click on that file to download it.
Once you've downloaded the file
be sure to extract its contents.
If you're using a Mac, you can simply double click the file
and it will extract the contents
into a folder named shellclass.
If you're using Windows, right click on the file,
then click on Extract all.
Finally, click on the extract button.
If you are using Linux
use the command, unzip,
space, - d,
space, shellclass,
space, shellclass dot zip,
and hit enter.
Whether you're on Mac, Windows, or Linux
you'll now have extracted the contents
of the course archive into a folder named shellclass.
Inside the shellclass folder
there are two other folders, demos, and exercises.
The demos folder contains all the files you'll see me use
in the lessons and all the scripts that I write
during the demonstrations.
Near the beginning of each video
you'll watch me create a script and start teaching
using that script.
You'll have a copy of that exact same script
so you can follow along if you'd like.
The exercises folder contains the practice
exercise instructions, as well
as the resulting scripts from those exercises.
By the way, the practice exercise instructions start
with the word exercise and are numbered, so the instructions
for the first practice exercise are in the file
that starts with the name, Exercise dash zero one.
There will be instructions
within each exercise telling you exactly what the name
of the script is that you'll be writing.
You'll find a shell script
with that exact same name in the exercises folder
which you can use as the answer to the practice exercise.
Once you have the download saved on your computer
and you've extracted the contents of that download,
go ahead and move on to the next lesson.


=== Creating a Local Linux Shell Scripting Environment ===


--- Creating a Local Lab Environment Using Vagrant and VirtualBox - Background ---

Instructor: During this course,
you're going to write several shell scripts
and learn a lot along the way.
It's really important that you learn the concept
so that you can apply your knowledge
on any Linux distribution
or any Unix-like or Linux-like system.
However, when you're learning a new concept,
I don't want anything to get in your way.
I don't want you to get hung up on little gotchas
or get sidetracked by some unimportant detail.
That's the main reason why you're going to use
a specific Linux installation
that was created for this course.
Another reason you're going to use the Linux image
designed for this course is so that you can get help.
If everyone in the class were to use
a slightly different Linux installation
it would be almost impossible to manage the class.
If I or the teaching assistants know exactly
what system you're using,
we can help you in a very specific way.
We can even take your script and run it on a system
that is the same as the one you are working on.
This helps us help you.
A third reason to use the Linux installation method
I'm about to describe is that it will allow you
to quickly create an entire mini network of Linux systems.
In the real world,
you'll end up writing shell scripts
that perform a given task on multiple systems.
This set up allows you to practice those skills
and we're gonna do that in this class.
Okay, so what is this installation method and lab setup
that I've been alluding to
for the last couple of minutes here,
and what does this environment look like?
First, it consists of virtualization software
that will allow you to run Linux inside a virtual machine
on your local desktop or laptop.
My favorite virtualization software for this purpose
is VirtualBox available for download at virtualbox.org.
First off, it's free to download,
and it's really easy to install.
Secondly, it runs on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
This is a big plus for a course like this
as you're going to have the exact same experience
no matter if you're working on a Windows system,
a Mac system, or if you use Linux on your desktop every day.
A little side note here
if you're looking for a virtualization solution
for running virtual machines in production, for example,
I'd be looking at something like VMware, KVM, or oVirt
but for our purposes for creating test systems
on our local machine and working together in this class,
VirtualBox is the way to go.
Let's get clear on what VirtualBox does
and what virtual machines are.
VirtualBox is a full virtualization product,
meaning that it allows you to run
an unmodified operating system
with all of its installed software in a special environment
on top of your existing operating system.
This special environment called a virtual machine
is created by the virtualization software
by intercepting access to certain hardware components
and certain features.
The physical computer is called the host
while the virtual machine is called a guest.
Most of the guest code runs unmodified
directly on the host computer
and the guest operating system
thinks it's running on a real machine.
That last point is important.
The guest operating system
thinks it's running on real hardware
and it really doesn't know
that it's inside a virtual machine.
If you're doing something inside a virtual machine
and the operating system of that virtual machine
says something like performing this action
will erase all the data on all your discs,
it's really only referring to the virtual discs
that it has access to,
not your physical discs on your real physical host computer.
You can perform destructive actions
inside the virtual machine
and those actions are contained inside
of that virtual machine
and won't interfere with your actual physical computer.
VirtualBox provides software
that can be installed on the guest operating system.
This software is called VirtualBox Guest Additions.
This software allows the guest operating system
to access shared folders on the host system,
share the clipboard,
and some other similar actions.
This is not required, but it can be very useful.
The virtual machines you'll be deploying in this course
will already have the guest edition software
installed in them.
I just wanted to mention the guest edition
so that you're aware of them and know what they do.
Manually creating virtual machines
with VirtualBox is fairly easy and straightforward.
By the way, we are not going
to be manually creating machines in this course.
I just wanna show you the process
so that you can do this on your own later
or so that you know exactly what is happening
behind the scenes when we automate this.
So first, you start the VirtualBox application
and next you click on new to create a new virtual machine.
From there, you would give it a name,
tell VirtualBox a bit about the operating system
that you'll be installing inside of the virtual machine,
and allocate some resources such as memory and disc space
to the virtual machine.
When you create a virtual disc for the virtual machine
you can make it dynamically allocated.
A virtual disc is simply a file on the host system.
When you choose to dynamically allocate that disc,
it will only use space on your physical disc
as that space is used inside the virtual machine guest.
This means that the disc file will grow as needed.
The upside is that the virtual machine
thinks it's getting a large disc
such as 100 gigabyte or 200 gigabyte
but if it only uses one gigabyte,
then only one gigabyte of space
is used on your physical hard drive.
The price you pay for this dynamic allocation is performance
inside the virtual machine, but for our purposes,
this is totally acceptable.
Once you've allocated resources to the virtual machine,
it's ready to be used, and the first time you start it up,
it will ask you to attach a disc to boot from.
Typically, what you'll do is download a Linux ISO
from your favorite distributions website
and then tell VirtualBox to use that ISO
to boot the system with.
Alternatively, you can actually put a physical CD or DVD
in your computer and tell VirtualBox
to use that physical drive for the install.
Now you install the OS in the virtual machine
just like you would as if you were installing that OS
on real physical hardware.
This process is all well and good
but as you can probably guess,
it can be a bit time consuming
going through the virtual machine creation process
and manually performing the operating system installation
each time you want to create a new virtual machine.
We're looking to automate this process
and save us a lot of time doing that tedious work.
To do that, we'll use a command line tool called Vagrant
which is available to download for free from vagrantup.com.
This command line tool works on Mac, Windows, and Linux,
so no matter what OS you're using for this course,
you'll be covered.
Vagrant provides easy to configure, reproducible,
and portable work environments.
By default, Vagrant provisions of virtual machines
using VirtualBox.
It can be configured to deploy virtual machines
to VMware, AWS, Rackspace, and other providers.
But for this course,
we're sticking to creating virtual machines
inside a VirtualBox running on our local systems.
You're going to use Vagrant to quickly
and easily spin up virtual machines running Linux.
Let's talk about what you should know
and understand about Vagrant before you start using it.
A box in Vagrant speak is an operating system image.
The Vagrant box add command will download
and store that box on your local system.
You only need to download a box once
as this image will be cloned
when you create a new virtual machine with Vagrant
using the box's name.
The typical format of this command
is vagrant box add USER/BOX.
I have a user account
on Vagrant's public box catalog system.
My username is jasonc.
I created a box specifically
for this course named centos7.
It's really just a minimal centos install.
So to download that box,
you would run vagrant box add jasonc/centos7.
There are several boxes that are publicly available
on Vagrant's public box catalog system.
I'll have a link in the exercise instructions
where you can download other boxes
if you'd like to experiment with them on your own time.
In addition to boxes, Vagrant uses the concept of projects.
A Vagrant project must consist of a folder
and a Vagrant configuration file called a Vagrantfile.
So to create a new Vagrant project, first create a folder.
For example, I would open up a command prompt on Windows
or a terminal on Linux or Mac,
and then type the command mkdir vm1.
From there, you would change into that directory
with cd vm1.
Now, you need to initialize your Vagrant project
which means creating a Vagrant configuration file.
This configuration file is named Vagrantfile
and it contains the box name to use for the project
and any other configuration options for the virtual machine
or virtual machines to create.
To create the Vagrantfile, run the Vagrant init command.
So continuing with our previous example here,
you would run vagrant init jasonc/centos7.
Now you can bring up an instance of that box
by running vagrant up.
The first time you run the vagrant up command,
Vagrant will import or clone that Vagrant box
into VirtualBox and then start it.
If Vagrant detects
that the virtual machine already exists in VirtualBox,
it will just simply start it.
By default, when the virtual machine is started,
it is started in headless mode
meaning that there is no user interface
for the machine visible on your local host machine.
Since this class is focused on shell scripting,
we'll be working at the command line
so we really don't care about looking
at the Linux desktop anyway.
Now, if you look at the VirtualBox application,
you'll see that you'll have a new virtual machine
that's running.
Its name starts with the name of the Vagrant project
which is the name of the directory you created
where the Vagrantfile lives.
As I mentioned earlier,
you are going to be creating multiple virtual machines.
You can actually specify those additional virtual machines
in the same Vagrantfile.
This is called a multi-machine set up by Vagrant.
By default, when you run the vagrant up command,
it brings up all the virtual machines
defined in the Vagrantfile.
If you only want to operate on a single virtual machine,
you have to supply the virtual machine's name.
For example, if you defined a VM named Master,
you could bring it up with a vagrant up master command.
Likewise, if you had a VM
defined with the name of server1,
you would bring it up with vagrant up server1.
And I wanna repeat that if you just ran vagrant up,
it would bring up both of those systems
that were defined because by default,
it brings up every system that's defined
in the Vagrantfile for that Vagrant project.
SSH, Secure Shell, is the network protocol
used to connect to Linux systems.
Vagrant provides a nice shortcut
to SSH into the virtual machines.
If you only have one virtual machine to find
in the Vagrantfile,
you can simply run vagrant ssh and emit the VM name,
and you'll be automatically logged
into that one VM Linux system
that you've created with Vagrant.
If you have multiple machines defined,
you'll need to supply this specific VM name.
For example, vagrant ssh master.
To log out of a Linux system,
simply type exit and hit Enter.
A quick note for you Windows users,
Windows doesn't currently ship with an SSH client
so you'll need to install one
and what I recommend doing is installing Git,
that's G-I-T, from git-scm.com
which includes an SSH client.
When you work on the exercise
I'll give you specific instructions
on how to get this configured
but for you Mac and Linux users,
you can just skip this step
as you already have an SSH client built in by default.
Okay, back to Vagrant.
Vagrant can be used
to control the virtual machines it creates.
For example, the vagrant halt command
shuts down all the virtual machines
defined in the Vagrantfile.
If you have multiple VMs defined
and only one to halt one, just specify the VM name.
When you run this command,
you will not lose any work you've performed
inside the virtual machine.
That's because the virtual machine
will still exist in VirtualBox,
but it will just simply be halted or stopped.
To restart all the defined VMs
for the project, run vagrant up.
Since the virtual machines already exist,
vagrant up will simply start them
and it will skip the import process because it's not needed.
By the way, I'm pretty sure you see a pattern here
with all these commands.
If you don't specify a VM name, the command will operate
on all the VMs defined in the Vagrantfile for the project.
If you wanna limit that operation to a specific VM,
then you need to supply that name of the VM
that you wanna operate on.
So going forward, I'm just going to assume
that you understand this concept
and not point it out for each and every command.
If you want to suspend the virtual machine,
run vagrant suspend,
to resume it, run vagrant resume.
If you're done with a virtual machine
or you want to start over with a fresh copy
of the virtual machine or virtual machines,
run vagrant destroy,
this will terminate and remove the virtual machine
or virtual machines from VirtualBox.
If you run this command, then any work
inside of the virtual machine will be lost.
If you need help or forget some of the commands
you can just run the vagrant command itself
without any options.
Also, keep in mind that the vagrant command
will act on the virtual machine
or virtual machines associated
with a Vagrant project directory that you're in.
During this course,
you'll be creating multiple Vagrant projects,
so be sure that you're in the desired
Vagrant project directory
before running any vagrant command.
Before we wrap up talking about Vagrant,
let's take a quick look at the Vagrantfile.
All the Vagrant configuration occurs
after the Vagrant.configure line and before the end keyword.
The two in parentheses here is the configuration version.
Older style configurations are supported
but we'll be using version two.
So this is what you'll see in the Vagrantfile
you'll be working with.
The simplest Vagrantfile
just specifies the name of the box
you'll use to create the default VM.
If you want Vagrant to set the host name
inside the virtual machine
you can use config.vm.hostname.
To assign a static IP address to the virtual machine,
use a config.vm.network line.
The example on your screen will assign the IP address
of 10.2.3.4 to the virtual machine
on a private network that can only be accessed
from the host machine or other Vagrant VMs
on that same network.
You'll be using this Vagrant feature
to create an entire network of Linux systems
that can communicate with each other.
Each box ships with a set of defaults,
like whether or not to start in headless mode
or how much memory to allocate
to the virtual machine and so on.
You can override these default settings
by using a config.vm.provider block.
The example here on your screen
will force the virtual machine to start with a gui,
a graphical user interface and use 1,024 megabytes,
which is of course one gigabyte of memory.
Vagrant has a provisioning system built in it.
Provisioners in Vagrant allow you
to automatically install software,
alter configurations and more on the machine
as part of the Vagrant Up process.
Because we're focusing on shell scripting in this course
we'll use the shell provisioner.
You won't be using a provisioner all the time
but we will do this at some point during the course.
This is where you can write a post-installation
shell script to configure a new system for example.
Vagrant will execute the shell script
that you specify the first time Vagrant Up is executed.
The example here on your screen
will upload the setup.sh shell script
into the virtual machine,
and then execute it from there.
This way, you can automate
and reproduce entire environments quickly.
If you wanna make sure someone else like a developer
is working with the same configuration as you,
give them the Vagrantfile
and the setup.sh script and they're set.
Let's look at how to configure
a multi-machine setup in Vagrant.
If there is any common configuration to all the VMs,
just specify it at the top of the file.
In this example, we're going to use the same box
or image for all the VMs, so we list it first.
Next, create a configuration block for the first VM.
The syntax is shown on your screen.
That syntax is config.vm.define,
and then you put a server name in quotation marks
followed by do and then in a set of pipes,
you also put the server name.
Then you set the VM specific configuration
using that server name.
This example sets the host name and IP address for the VM.
You keep adding additional VMs
using the exact same syntax.
On your screen, a second VM is defined named server2.
If you were to run Vagrant Up using this configuration
you would end up with two virtual machines,
one named server1 with an IP address of 10.2.3.4,
and another one named server2
with an IP address of 10.2.3.5.
We've talked about many of the awesome things Vagrant can do
and many of the Vagrant features you'll be using most often.
However, there is more.
The vagrant init command creates a default Vagrantfile
which contains several comments.
You can read through those comments to get an idea
of what else is possible with Vagrant.


=== User and Account Creation - Shell Scripting Project 1 ===


--- Exercise 1 Instructions - Creating a Local Linux Shell Scripting Lab Environment ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Password Generation and Shell Script Arguments - Shell Scripting Project 2 ===


--- Exercise 1 – Walkthrough – Part I – Windows Users Only ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you'll learn
how to set up a local lab environment on Windows.
That means this video is for Windows users only,
so if you're not using Windows,
go ahead and skip to the next lesson.
During the course,
you'll be creating Linux virtual machines
that run on your Windows system, and you'll be connecting
to those Linux virtual machines using SSH.
SSH, which stands for secure shell,
is the network protocol used to connect to Linux Systems.
By default, Windows doesn't come
with an SSH client installed.
One way to install an SSH client on Windows
is to install Git, spelled G-I-T.
Git is used for version control, but we're interested
in the SSH client that comes with it.
If you're taking this course on the Udemy platform,
you'll see a link to the download
in the Resources section of this lesson.
I've also put a link to the download
in the documentation that accompanies this lesson.
For the most part, we're going to accept the defaults.
However, there is one place
where we're going to select something different
from the default, and I'll mention that when we get there.
So if you're asked any yes or no questions,
simply click on Yes.
Here, we'll click on Next.
Again, we're accepting the defaults.
Click on Next.
The defaults are fine here.
Next again.
Clicking Next, and Next.
Again, Next.
Here's where you need to pay attention.
We want to select Use Git and Optional Unix Tools
from the command prompt.
This will allow us to access the SSH command
or the SSH client that comes with Git.
So go ahead and select that option and click on Next.
The default is fine here.
Go ahead, click on Next.
Again, we're accepting the defaults everywhere else
except for that one place, so keep clicking on Next.
Finally, click on Install to perform the installation.
I'm not interested in reading the release notes,
so I'm going to uncheck that box and click on Finish
to complete the installation.
Let's prove that the SSH client did get installed.
First, let's open up a command prompt,
and we can do that by searching for Command Prompt.
Once it appears in your list of application matches,
click on it to start the command prompt.
Now type in SSH and hit Enter.
You'll now see some output from the SSH command
which means it was successfully installed on Windows,
which is exactly what we're looking for.
Next, we're going to install VirtualBox,
but before we install VirtualBox,
we need to install a dependency
named the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable package.
If you're taking this course on the Udemy platform,
you'll see a link to the download
in the Resources section of this lesson.
Simply click that link to download the installation file.
If you're not on Udemy,
you can simply search for Microsoft Visual C++
Redistributable package download.
Then once you're on the download page,
click the download link for the x64 platform.
Once the file has been downloaded,
click on it to start the installation.
Click the check mark to agree
to the terms and conditions and click Install.
If you're asked any yes or no questions,
simply click on Yes.
Now click on Close to complete the installation.
Now visit VirtualBox.org in your web browser.
Now find the link that takes you to the download page.
Currently this link is aptly named Downloads,
but it may change in the future.
Just simply navigate
to the Downloads section of this website.
From here, select the file
for your platform, which is Windows.
So click on Windows Hosts.
Once the download is complete,
click on the file to begin the installation process.
The installation is very easy.
We're simply going to accept all the defaults
and answer yes to all the questions.
So here's a yes or no question, so we'll click on Yes.
Now we'll click on Next.
Again, we're going to accept all the default,
so there's nothing to do other than to click on Next.
Click on, yes.
Again, here's another yes or no question, so click on Yes.
Finally, click on Install to begin the installation.
At the end of the installation,
clicking on Finish will start VirtualBox.
Going to minimize the web browser
to see VirtualBox, and there it is.
The installation has been successful.
To start VirtualBox in the future,
there are a couple of ways to do it.
One way is to click on the Search icon
and start typing VirtualBox.
You'll see the application in the search results.
To start it, click on Oracle VM VirtualBox.
Another way you can start it
is by clicking on the Windows button
and navigating to the application.
Click on all apps,
and then make sure you're looking for
the full name of the application,
which is Oracle VM VirtualBox.
Click the folder to open up some options,
and you'll see the Oracle VM VirtualBox application here.
And of course, click it to start it.
Now you have Vagrant, VirtualBox,
and an SSH client installed,
which makes you ready for the rest of this project
and for the rest of the course.


=== Linux Programming Conventions - Shell Scripting Project 3 ===


--- Exercise 1 – Walkthrough – Part I – Mac Intel Users Only ---

-: This video is for you Mac users.
We're going to go ahead and start out
by installing virtual Box.
Now be sure to use the link in the documentation
or in the project notes there.
So I'm gonna go to the website
and then I'm going to navigate to the virtual box directory.
And since we're running Mac,
I'll go to the Mac directory here,
and then I'm gonna go ahead and download this application.
Now we're just gonna go ahead and open up that download
and we're going to go ahead and double click
on the virtual box dot pkg file here
and that will start the installation,
and we'll go ahead and click continue
and accept all the defaults.
(typing sounds)
(notification bell)
Okay, the installation is complete
and we'll just click close.
We're done with this window.
I'll go ahead and close that as well.
Next, open up system preferences
by clicking on the Apple icon
in the top left corner of your screen.
Then click on system preferences.
From here, click on security and privacy.
Make sure you're on the general tab by clicking on it.
If you see an allow button, click on that.
This tells your Mac to trust the kernel extension
from this software provider.
It's perfectly safe to do this.
By the way, the click on the allow button has to come
from a physically attached device like the track pad.
So if you're connected via remote desktop, that won't work.
You have to have physical access to the Mac.
Again, it's an additional security layer.
If you do not see an allow button, this might be fine.
For example, it can mean
that you're running an older version of Mac OS
that doesn't have the security feature.
It could also mean
that this security feature has been disabled prior.
However, if you do not see the Allow button,
I highly suggest that you go ahead
and reboot your Mac now and come back to this screen.
If the Allow button is there after the reboot,
go ahead and click it, and if not
we'll assume everything is perfectly fine for now
and there is a troubleshooting video later in this course
that will help you with any issues due to this.
Now we'll go ahead and install Vagrant.
So we'll navigate to the Vagrant directory.
We're on Mac, and again, we'll just download the installer
and run it and accept the defaults as well.
Okay, we'll go ahead and click on that download.
We'll double click on the Vagrant pkg file here.
(typing sounds)
(notification bell)
All right, the installation is complete,
and we're done.
All right, now you have all the tools you need installed
in order to complete the first project
and future projects as well.


=== Parsing Command Line Options – Shell Scripting Project 4 ===


--- Exercise 1 – Walkthrough – Part I – Linux (CentOS/RHEL) Users Only ---

Instructor: This video demonstrates
the installation of Virtual Box and Vagrant
for people using CentOS or Red Hat Systems.
The first thing you want to do is make sure
that you're in the directory
where you're going to download the installation files.
For me, that's in my downloads directory
in my home directory and the easiest way I can get there
is to use the CD command with a tilde /Downloads.
And then now what I'm going to do is go to the website here
and be sure to use the links that are in the exercise
or project notes 'cause they may change over time.
So I'm gonna go here, I want to download Virtual Box,
I'm on a centos RL system and then I'll just click this
to download it and I wanna save the file.
Okay, now that my file is saved, I'll go back to my terminal
and if I perform an ls, I can see that it's there.
Root privileges are required to install software,
so I'm just going to switch to the root user with su.
I'm not gonna use a dash because I don't want roots
entire environment and I don't wanna be moved
into roots home directory.
I wanna stay in my user accounts home directory,
so I'm just using su, providing the root password
and now I'm going to type VirtualBox*run.
And this way, no matter what version of Virtual Box
you're doing, if it uses this format,
this particular command will work.
Of course, you could just use tab completion
or what have you, type it all out.
Either one is fine.
So just run sh followed by the installation file
for Virtual box and hit enter.
Okay, it reported that Virtual Box
has been installed successfully.
We can test this by running the Virtual Box command.
We'll do that here.
And that started the Virtual Box manager,
so it looks like we're all good.
I'll go ahead and close out of this and we'll continue on
to the next step, which is installing Vagrant.
I'm going to go back to the website
and navigate to the Vagrant directory.
We're using CentOS.
I'm going to download the file here.
Going to save it.
Now, I'll return to the terminal and use yum localinstall,
-: y to just say yes to all the questions we're gonna get
and then specify the name of the file.
Okay, if we run the Vagrant command.
we can confirm if it got installed successfully or not.
We'll run Vagrant
and we get output, so it looks like we're good to go.
I'm going to exit out of my root shell
since I'm done with the installation.
And now you are ready to continue
with the rest of the course
because you have Vagrant and Virtual Box installed.


=== Transforming Data / Data Processing / Reporting – Shell Scripting Project 5 ===


--- Exercise 1 – Walkthrough – Part I – Mac Apple Silicon Users Only ---

Instructor: This video is for Mac users who happen
to have an Apple silicon chip in their computer.
Now if you have one of the slightly older Intel-based Macs,
you can skip this video
and follow the course exactly as it is.
However, if you have a new computer
with an Apple silicon chip,
you're going to need to follow this video.
Currently, there really isn't a free and elegant solution
for running VMs on the new Apple silicon processor.
I wanna give you a slight workaround,
which is to actually run Linux virtual machines
in the cloud.
Now I recommend using DigitalOcean
and right now they have a promotion going on
that gives you a $100 credit
that you can use within 60 days.
Now with that $100 credit and 60 days to use that credit,
you can easily complete this class
in that time with that budget.
In the instructions, I'll provide that exact link
to get this credit.
Of course, the first thing you want to do is follow
that link and click on the Sign Up button.
And here, what you're going
to do is simply create your account
and receive your free credit.
Now I already have an account,
so I'm just gonna log in and show you what it looks like
when you finally have your account.
In my dashboard, I already have a few resources set up
because I'm a DigitalOcean customer for quite some time.
I really do like their service.
Now in your case, it's probably going to be blank.
So at any rate,
what we're going to do is click on Create a New Project.
From here, we're going to give the project a name.
I'm just going to name mine Class.
You can add a description if you want
and it looks like it's required to select a purpose
and you can just say class project or educational purposes,
or quite honestly anything you want to here.
And go ahead and click Create Project.
Now a project for DigitalOcean is just simply a way
to group resources, resources such as virtual machines.
Now that we have a projects created,
let's go ahead and create a virtual machine.
So click on Create,
and then I'm gonna have to scroll up a little bit here
and click on Droplets.
Now a Droplet in DigitalOcean speak is a virtual machine
or a virtual private server.
On some other platforms,
you'll hear them called nodes or instances for example.
The first thing you want to do is choose an image,
and the image we're going to choose is CentOS,
and we're gonna make sure we have 8 Stream x64 selected.
Next, what we're going to do is scroll down here
and select the hardware that we want to run on
or the virtual hardware.
And what I'm going
to do is just use the cheapest option available here
to use as little of our credits as possible.
So I'm gonna click on regular Intel with SSD
and click on this one-gigabyte, 25-gig option here.
Now we're going to keep scrolling down.
We're not gonna add any additional storage.
Now the next thing you want
to do is choose a data center region
and I just say choose the one that is closest to you.
Overall, it's not gonna make that much of a difference,
but it will be just a little faster
if it's just a little closer to you.
So for example, I'm closer to San Francisco
than I am to New York or Amsterdam,
so that's what I'm going to choose.
Now you see here some of these have multiple data centers
and if they're grayed out,
that means that they're at capacity.
You can't add any more virtual machines in that data center
and so you would just select one that's available.
Again, I'm gonna go with San Francisco
with the latest data center here.
And what we need to do next is assign a password.
So we're not gonna mess with SSH key authentication for now.
We can cover that at a later time.
So what we're gonna do is click on the Password option
and now create a root password.
So I'm just gonna suggest a root password.
You don't have to use it,
but there are some requirements here
that you see listed on your screen.
So your password has to match these requirements
and of course, you need to remember this password.
So I'm just gonna use the same root password
for all my class testing machines here.
And I'm going to use one, two, three,
lowercase R, zero, zero, T,
capital P-A-S-S-W-O-R-D.
So that's more or less 123r00tPASSWORD
with the O's being substituted with zeros.
We'll keep scrolling down here
and we don't need any of these additional options.
For example, we don't need backups
because we're just learning,
we're testing and that sort of thing.
So you don't need that,
you don't need monitoring and that sort of thing.
So the next step is to choose a hostname,
and I'm going to call this testbox01.
What I recommend you do is simply choose a host name
that matches the corresponding project instructions.
So I give you host names to use.
So you can just put those in here.
Now what we need to do is select a project
and if you only have the Class project,
then this is gonna be automatically selected.
If you happen to have other projects,
then you would select the appropriate project.
Now what you can do is click Create Droplet.
So now we see a little status bar here
that it's showing it's creating the virtual machine
or Droplet or node or instance
or whatever you wanna call it.
So once it's been created,
it will give you an IP address
that you'll see here on the screen.
It can take a couple of minutes
for these Droplets to be created.
So now we have the IP address and what I'm going
to do is hover over it and then click Copy.
So now what we want to do is connect to this Droplet
and we do that with SSH over the command line.
And so on our Macs here,
what we want to do is open the terminal application.
The easiest way to do that, in my opinion,
is to use Spotlight and search for terminal,
and it will come up and then you hit Enter
to launch the terminal.
So now we're ready to connect to our Droplet
and you do that with ssh, R-O-O-T,
root@, and the IP address,
so I'll just paste that in here and hit Enter.
Now if you get a error message that says connection refused
or can't be established
or timed out or whatever, that's fine.
Again, it's gonna take a few minutes
for these virtual machines to spin up in the cloud.
And if you get an error message, that's just fine.
Wait a minute or two and try again.
Now once you get this message that says,
"Are you sure you want to continue connecting?"
Type Y-E-S and hit Enter.
So now we're going to supply that root password.
Again, I used 123r00t,
capital P-A-S-S-W-O-R-D, and Enter.
The image I created specifically
for the Class has disabled SELinux.
The reason I did that is I wanted you to focus first
on the Linux skills instead of worrying
about some obscure SELinux issues that can arise.
So what we're going to do here is also disable SELinux.
Now before we do that, we need a simple editor,
and to install that simple editor,
we're going to run dnf, space, install, space, -y,
space, nano, N-A-N-O, and hit Enter.
Now later in the course,
I'm gonna explain exactly how DNF works
and exactly what we did and what happened.
But for now, I just wanna give you the steps
that will get you up and running with your cloud instance.
Now that we have an editor,
we need to edit etc, selinux, config.
Now be very careful of your typing here.
If you get an error,
that probably means there's a typing mistake
and so just check your typing.
So we'll hit Enter,
and what we're going to do is arrow down to the line
that says SELINUX=enforcing.
Go to the end of that line, I'm gonna Backspace over this,
and then I'm going to type disabled.
Now that we have SELINUX=disabled in our file here,
we'll type Control + X to exit.
It will ask you if you want to save the file,
and so type Y to do so.
It's gonna ask you for the file name,
which it fills in for you, so just type Enter.
And now your setting has changed.
So now we need to reboot the Linux system
for this change to take effect.
So we'll just simply type reboot and hit Enter.
Now I'm gonna go ahead and quickly try to SSH back in
and we probably will get an error.
So again, just be patient while it reboots.
'Kay, we have a connection refused, that's fine.
That just means the system is in the process of rebooting.
We'll just wait a minute or two,
give it a chance to reboot and connect again.
All right, it's up, it's asking for the root password.
It's 123r00t,
capital P-A-S-S-W-O-R-D, and hit Enter.
Now SELinux should be disabled
and we can check that with sestatus.
Okay, it's showing disabled, which is exactly what we want.
By the way, each time you log in,
you'll notice this message.
It says, "Activate the web console with," this command.
Now we're not gonna be using the web console in this course.
We're actually going
to be using the full command line options
for everything we need to do.
So we're not gonna need a web console.
If you're fine with ignoring that message,
then there's nothing to do.
If you want to get rid of it
and not see it every time you log in,
then you could run this command,
rm /etc/motd.d,
forward slash C-O-C-K-P-I-T and hit Enter.
And it will ask you to remove the symbolic link
and what you'll do is type Y and hit Enter.
So now if I log out by typing exit,
hit my up arrow again to rerun my SSH command.
Type in the password here.
Now you'll see that the message isn't there.
Another thing I did to the Class image was
to disable the firewall.
Now here on DigitalOcean,
they do not have the firewall enabled,
so there's nothing for you to do.
However, if you are using a different service provider,
they may have enabled the firewall
and I'll include the command you'll need to run
in the project instructions to disable it.
I'll run it here, it's not gonna work,
again because it's not installed or enabled.
So this command gives us an error
because it's not installed.
The firewall is not enabled here, so we're good to go.
But again, if you're on another provider,
you wanna run this additional command just to make sure
that the firewall isn't getting in the way
while you're attempting to learn.
During the course of this class,
I give you host names and IP addresses to use.
So what you're going to have
to do is translate those IP addresses
into the ones that DigitalOcean gives you.
Let's go back to the web interface.
So again, if you are in your Class project directory,
you can see the Droplets that you've created
and their corresponding IP addresses.
So instead of using the ones
that I give you in the project notes,
what you're going to have
to do is translate those into these.
For example, if the project instructions say
to use the IP address of 10.23.45.30,
then instead what I'm gonna do here in my case is
to use 143.110.239.233.
And again, you are going to get a unique IP address.
So I can't predict what that is,
and so therefore that's why you're gonna have
to do that translation on your own.
So that is a downside of using this method.
We can't necessarily control the networking.
We're relying on a third party here,
DigitalOcean, to do that for us.
To be perfectly clear,
each time in the class when I ask you
to create a virtual machine,
what you are going to do instead is come
to DigitalOcean and create a Droplet.
And each time you create a new Droplet,
you'll wanna do two things.
The first thing is to install Nano
and the next thing is to edit the etc,
selinux config file and change SELinux to disabled.
And then finally, reboot.
The very last thing you need
to do is make a note of the IP address,
and then you're ready to follow
along the instructions as they are written
and as they are demonstrated in the class.
When you're completely done with this Linux system,
you can go ahead and destroy it.
To do that, you'll go ahead
and click on the virtual machine name.
And then on the left side here, you'll see Destroy.
You'll click on that.
And then finally, you'll click on Destroy This Droplet,
and it's going to ask you to type in the name
as a confirmation.
So yes, I know what I'm doing.
I'm going to destroy testbox01 and click on Destroy.
And then in about 30 seconds or a minute or so,
that virtual machine will be gone from your account
and you will not accrue any more charges.
Now again, hopefully you've taken advantage of that credit
so you're not really getting charged anyway,
but again, it's a good idea
if you're not using your virtual machines
to go ahead and destroy them.
As things change on the virtualization front
with the Apple silicon CPUs,
I'll be sure to keep you updated.
If we come up with a better solution,
I'll be replacing this lesson in the class
and letting you know.


=== Network Scripting & Automation of Distributed Systems: Shell Scripting Project 6 ===


--- Exercise 1 – Walkthrough – Part II – All Users, Except Apple Silicon Users ---

Instructor: At this point,
you should have Vagrant and Virtualbox
installed on your operating system.
The next few steps that we're going to do
include adding a box of Vagrant,
setting up a Vagrant project,
and bringing up those boxes, logging into them, and so on.
So the first thing we need to do
is start a command line session.
Now if you're a Windows user,
what you need to do is start the Command Prompt.
Click on the Start button,
and in the search box, type the words command prompt.
And then in the list of results,
just double click on the Command Prompt
and that will start your command line session for you.
For you Mac users, start the terminal application
which is located in the /applications/utilities folder.
For Linux users,
go ahead and start your favorite terminal emulator,
probably using the menu system and your distribution
Examples include known terminal console and XTerm.
As you can see here, I'm working on a Mac.
But the commands we're going to run
work on Windows, Linux, or Mac.
So no matter what operating system you're on,
you can follow these exact commands.
So now that we have a command line session open,
we're ready to add a box to Vagrant.
And as you probably remember from a previous lesson,
a box in Vagrant speak is an operating system image.
And the vagrant box add command will download
and store that box on your local system.
You only need to download a box once
as this image will be cloned
when you create a new virtual machine
with Vagrant using that box's name.
I created a box specifically for this class
and uploaded it to the public Vagrant box catalog.
Run the following command
on your local machine to download it.
That command is vagrant box add jasonc/centos7.
By the way, I always follow the instructions
in the project or exercise documentation
'cause sometimes if these links change,
but I'll try to stay as close to that as possible.
But again, if you see something
slightly different on your screen,
just know that the document that you're following
is the source of truth.
So I hit Enter and the box will start to download.
Okay, the box has successfully been added
to our local system.
So our next step is to create a folder or directory
to keep all of our coursework in.
And I just wanted to point out really quickly
that when you open the Command Prompt on Windows
or the terminal on Mac or Linux,
typically you're placed into your home directory.
For example, if I'm logged into a Windows system as Jason,
my home directory could be something like C:\Users\Jason.
Now this might vary
depending on what version of Windows you're using,
but it's gonna be something very similar.
If I'm logged into a Mac system as I am here,
my home directory will be /Users/Jason.
If I'm logged into a Linux system as Jason,
my home directory is going to be /home/jason.
So this just gives you an idea
of where you're at on the system
so you know where to find the files
that you're about to create
and work with during this course.
So again, like I said, we're going to create a folder
or a directory to keep our coursework in.
We're gonna name that folder shellclass
and what we're going to do now is type mkdir shellclass.
That command works on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
So we're good here.
So next we wanna move into that folder we just created.
So we'll run cd,
which stands for change directory, shellclass.
Vagrant has this concept of projects
and a Vagrant project must consist of a folder
and a Vagrant configuration file
called a Vagrantfile that's placed in that folder.
So let's start out by creating a testbox01 folder.
Next, we'll move into that folder with cd.
And now to create the Vagrant configuration file,
you'll want to run the vagrant init command
followed by the box name.
So we'll run vagrant init jasonc/centos7, and press Enter.
The first time you run the vagrant up command,
Vagrant will import or clone the Vagrant box
into Virtualbox and then start it.
If Vagrant detects that the virtual machine
already exists in Virtualbox,
it will just go ahead and simply start it.
By default, when the virtual machine is started,
it is started in headless mode,
meaning that there's no user interface
for the machine visible on your local host machine.
It'll be running in the background,
but you won't necessarily see anything change.
Let's bring up your first Linux virtual machine with Vagrant
by running vagrant up, and pressing Enter.
I wanna point out a couple of common issues
that some people run into
when they run the vagrant up command.
Sometimes I've seen some issues
where someone has accidentally mistyped the box name
when they did the vagrant init.
That can lead to an error that states
that the box couldn't be found,
and so Vagrant will not be able to clone that box,
and so on.
So that's a common issue.
So make sure with your vagrant init command,
you spelled everything correctly.
And I'm gonna show you in a second
how to fix that if you didn't.
Another issue that you may run into when running vagrant up
is that you'll get an error reporting something about
timed out while waiting for the machine to boot.
There could be a couple of different reasons for this.
The most likely reason is that the virtual machine
started without its network interface enabled.
I've mainly seen this on older Windows systems.
I'm not sure what it is about the host operating system
that sometimes doesn't enable the virtual network interface
to be enabled on Start.
But you can quickly fix this by editing the Vagrantfile
and adding a block of text
that I'll provide in the exercise notes.
And what that block of configuration does
is it just forces the cable to be plugged in
and that virtual network device to be turned on.
A third possibility is that VTX
or the virtualization settings for your CPU
are not enabled on the host computer.
And then what you need to do in that case
is to go into the bios and enable those for your computer.
Restart and then try again.
By the way, there's a troubleshooting video
specifically on these issues that goes into more detail.
So if you're still having problems,
go ahead and skip forward to the troubleshooting video.
Watch that, fix your problem,
and then come back to this exercise.
So quickly, how we're going to fix these issues
or how we're actually going to provide further configuration
is to edit the Vagrantfile.
To do that, you wanna open it
with your favorite text editor
and I'm saying text editor for a reason.
Do not use a word processor.
Do not use Microsoft Word, LibreOffice writer.
Do not use Apple Pages.
Use a text editor.
One text editor that I recommend a lot is Atom.
It's spelled A-T-O-M,
and it's available at atom.io, A-T-O-M .io.
And it works on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
So I'm gonna go ahead and open up my Atom text editor
and edit the Vagrantfile here.
Now you can open up the Vagrantfile with your text editor.
Going to go to my home directory, then find shellclass,
and then testbox01.
And finally, open the Vagrantfile.
So this is where it becomes important to know
where your home directory is,
where you created your shellclass folder,
and what project you're working on
and obviously where the Vagrantfile is.
So once you've located the file,
you can open it with your favorite text editor.
So if you did run vagrant init with the incorrect box name,
you can come down to the config.vm.box line
and make your change as needed.
For example, I've seen some people do this jason/centos7
or some other variation like that
and then you can fix it here, save your Vagrantfile
and then run vagrant up again,
and you should be good to go.
Let's confirm that our first virtual machine is running
by starting the Virtualbox application.
On Windows, you can double click
on the Oracle VM Virtualbox icon on your desktop.
For Mac users, you can start the application
Virtualbox application.
And Linux users will just need to find the application
in their menuing system.
Now you can confirm that you see a virtual machine running
and it will start with a name
of your Vagrant project folder.
So you here you can see
that it starts with testbox01.
Let's get back to the terminal real quick.
You can also use the vagrant status command
to check the status of the virtual machine
and you could confirm that it shows
that the virtual machine is in a running state
by running vagrant status.
The vagrant status command confirmed
that the machine is running just like we saw it running
inside the Virtualbox application as well.
Now that we have a box up,
let's connect to it with SSH.
SSH is called Secure Shell and it's the network protocol
used to connect to Linux Systems.
Vagrant provides a nice shortcut to SSH
into the virtual machine
and that shortcut is vagrant ssh.
Now you are connected to the Linux virtual machine
as the Vagrant user.
This default Vagrant account
is used to connect to the Linux system.
For your convenience,
the Vagrant application takes care of the details
that allow you to connect to the box over SSH
without a password.
For reference, the password for the Vagrant account
is Vagrant.
The password for the root account is also Vagrant.
That's V-A-G-R-A-N-T.
The Vagrant user has full sudo
or administrative privileges
and that allows you to further configure the system
if you want to.
Of course we'll be dealing more with accounts
and privileges and sudo later in this course.
Now let's exit the virtual machine
by typing the exit command.
And now we're logged out of the Linux virtual machine
and back to our host operating system.
The vagrant halt Command shuts down the virtual machine.
When you run this command,
you will not lose any work you've performed
inside the virtual machine.
The virtual machine will still exist in Virtualbox.
It will just simply be stopped.
So let's do that now.
Okay, the machine should be halted.
Let's look at it in the Virtualbox application.
You can see that the virtual machine
still exists in Virtualbox,
but it's just simply powered off.
You might've noticed when we logged into the Linux system,
we had a prompt that read vagrant@localhost.
Localhost is the name of the virtual machine
inside the virtual machine itself.
It's what Linux thinks its name is.
We can have Vagrant configured that name for us.
And to do that,
we need to put that configuration in the Vagrantfile.
So open up your favorite text editor,
navigate to the location of the Vagrantfile,
and then load that file up.
And we're gonna put a line of configuration in there.
So the configuration in the Vagrantfile
really starts at this Vagrant.configure line,
and it goes all the way down to the bottom of the file here
at the end keyword.
What we're going to do
is start placing our configuration
right after this config.vm.box line.
To set the host name,
we can type config.vm.hostname equals,
and then specify the name.
So we're gonna call this box testbox01.
And now what we need to do is save it
and to go to File and Save,
and let's return to the Command Prompt.
At this point, you could run vagrant halt
followed by vagrant up to activate this change.
However, Vagrant provides a shortcut, vagrant reload,
which restarts the virtual machine,
loads the new Vagrant configuration,
and starts the virtual machine again.
So let's give that a go here.
Okay, let's connect to the virtual machine
and see if the host name has changed.
So we'll run vagrant ssh.
Now you can see the prompt reads vagrant@testbox01.
So our configuration work.
Let's go ahead and exit out
of this virtual machine with exit.
That will log us out and place us back on our host system.
Let's move back over to the Vagrantfile.
During this course, you're going to create virtual machines
that will be able to communicate with each other
as well as your local desktop or laptop.
Let's give this virtual machine
the IP address of 10.9.8.7.
And to do that,
what we need to do is insert some configuration
into the Vagrantfile.
So continuing here, I'll just start it on the next line.
We'll do config.vm.network space,
a quotation mark, private_network.
And then after the closing quotation mark,
we need a comma space ip: space,
we'll need quotation marks, 10.9.8.7,
and then we'll go ahead and save our file.
A common issue I see people have here
is that they simply do something like leave out this comma.
So again, make sure that you're following the syntax
and what's in the project instructions.
Now let's move back to our command line session
and make vagrant reload that configuration.
So we'll do vagrant reload.
Since the virtual machine was running
and we'll go ahead and stop it
and then start it with the new Vagrant configuration.
Okay, our machine is reloaded.
Let's test the network connectivity
with the ping command.
If you're on Windows,
you can just type ping and the IP address.
If you're on Mac or Linux,
you're gonna specify account with -c.
So we'll just do -c three to send three packets
and we'll do 10.9.8.7, which is the IP address.
We assign the virtual machine.
Let's hit Enter and see what happens.
We were able to successfully pingi the virtual machine
as we had no packet loss.
Now the ping command is just one simple way
to test network connectivity.
So if you see replies,
then you can just safely assume the IP address is reachable
and that the host is up.
If you see timeout messages,
then the system is not answering your ping requests.
In the real world,
this doesn't necessarily mean the system is down.
It just means it's not answering your ping requests
which could be for a variety of reasons.
However, for our purposes here,
if you get a timeout message,
then you can safely assume that this system is down
or there's something wrong with the configuration.
The first thing to try is just simply reboot the VM
by running vagrant reload.
If the ping command fails again,
double check the contents of the Vagrantfile
and pay very special close attention
to the config.vm.network line.
If you've made a typing mistake, no big deal.
Just fix your changes, save the Vagrantfile,
restart the virtual machine, and try again.
The final step is to reboot the host operating system
or your physical computer.
Come back and try it again.
If you're done with the virtual machine
or you wanna start over with a fresh copy
of the virtual machine, run vagrant destroy.
We'll do that now.
It'll prompt you to confirm
that you actually want to delete the machine
and we'll just say y for yes and hit Enter.
Now if we look back in the Virtualbox application,
that machine is gone.
It's been destroyed.
It's been removed.
It's like it never existed.
So if we had any work that was saved inside
to the local disk, that work is gone
because we totally destroyed that virtual machine.
So when you run vagrant destroy,
be sure that you're done with the contents
inside of that virtual machine.
Let's create another Vagrant project.
But this time, let's define multiple virtual machines
in that one project.
First, let's return to our shellclass directory.
And the easiest way to do that is cd space ..
and press Enter.
That command changes to the parent directory
which is represented by dot dot or period period.
By the way, dot represents this directory,
dot dot represents the parent directory
or the directory above your current location
in the file system.
Now let's go ahead and create a Vagrant project folder
and change into that folder.
We'll do that with mkdir multitest
and we'll change into that directory, cd multitest.
And the next step is to initialize the Vagrant Project,
which creates our Vagrantfile.
vagrant init jasonc/centos7
and press Enter.
Now open up the Vagrantfile with your favorite text editor.
Now what we wanna do is to define two virtual machines.
Let's give the first one the name of test1
and give it an IP address of 10.9.8.5.
And so what we're going to do is leave
any of the common configuration
amongst all the machines that we're creating
at the top of the file.
So the box we're going to use
for each of our virtual machines is going to be this box.
So we just leave that there and it will apply
to all the virtual machines that we create.
So how we create a virtual machine instance here
is config.vm.define,
and then what we're going to do
is place the virtual machine name in quotation marks.
So we'll call this test1.
Next, we need the word do, followed by pipe,
and then again the name of the virtual machine, test1,
followed by a closing pipe.
Now we use the name of that machine
to perform our configuration.
So we'll do test1.vm.hostname
and we'll give it a host name of test1.
We also want to configure the network on this one.
So we'll do test1.vm.network private_network.
We're gonna give it an IP address of 10.9.8.5.
Now we can end this block of code with end,
and that is our first virtual machine definition.
Let's go ahead and configure the second virtual machine.
Very similar process to test2.
Set the host name to test2.
We will give this an IP address of 10.9.8.6
and we'll end with the end keyword for that block of code
which configures the test2 virtual machine.
Now we just save our changes.
Now let's start the virtual machines up
by going back to our command line session
and running vagrant up.
By the way, if you only wanted to bring
one of the systems up,
then you would specify it after vagrant up.
For example, if you only wanted to bring up
the test2 system, you would run vagrant up test2.
But if you don't specify a system or a virtual machine,
vagrant up will bring up every machine
that is defined in the Vagrantfile.
Okay, Vagrant has brought up both of the virtual machines
that we defined.
Now let's check their status with vagrant status.
Okay, it says both of them are running,
test1 is running in Virtualbox,
test2 is also running in Virtualbox.
Let's go ahead and connect to the test1 virtual machine
to confirm that it's working correctly.
And then we'll just quickly log out of it.
We'll use vagrant ssh.
And this time, we have to specify a name
of a virtual machine because we've defined
more than one virtual machines in our configuration.
So Vagrant won't be able to tell
which box we're trying to connect to
unless we give it a name.
So we'll give a name of the VM here
which is test1 and hit Enter.
If you look at the prompt, it says vagrant@test1.
So that's the correct host we're on.
It looks okay, we can get in it.
Now let's log out of the system with exit.
Let's do the same thing with the test2 system.
So we'll do vagrant ssh test2.
Again, notice the prompt, it reads vagrant@test2.
So that's another confirmation
that we're connected to the test2 VM.
Now while you're logged into the test2 VM,
let's see if we can ping the test1 VM
to prove that the two virtual machines
can communicate with each other over the network.
So we can do this with ping -c three 10.9.8.5
which is the IP address of the test1 system, and hit Enter.
Okay, no packet loss.
We can connect to the test1 system over the network.
So that looks good.
While we're connected to this VM,
I wanna show you one more thing.
You might have noticed some messages
about mounting shared folders
when the vagrant up command was executed.
Well, you can access the files
in the Vagrant project directory
that resides on your local machine
inside the virtual machine.
The Vagrant project directory
is mounted or shared via the /vagrant directory.
The only file on our local directory is the Vagrantfile
and you can look at that file from within the VM.
So let's run the following commands
inside the test2 VM.
We'll run ls /vagrant
and you can see that there is the Vagrantfile there.
And let's look at the contents of that file
with a cat command.
So we'll do cat /vagrant/Vagrantfile and press Enter.
Okay, so now you can see how you can access files
that reside on your local machine
while you're logged into the virtual machine.
This is also a convenient way to get files
inside the virtual machine
without having to do SCPs and those types of things.
Okay, we're done for today.
So let's go ahead and exit out of this VM.
By the way, in the upcoming project,
you'll be working a lot more with Vagrant,
virtual machines, and IP addresses, and so on.
So feel free to explore the Linux system if you'd like
or keep playing around with Virtualbox.
When you're ready to stop or take a break,
halt the virtual machine
or virtual machines that you're working with
and then remember that you can always pick up
where you left off
as long as you don't destroy the virtual machine.
Since I'm done,
I'm just going to halt these virtual machines
with a vagrant halt command.
Again, remember, if you only want to operate
on one of the virtual machines,
specify that virtual machine name
at the end of the Vagrant command.


=== Course Summary ===


--- Vagrant and VirtualBox Troubleshooting Tips ---

Instructor: I wanna go over some common issues
that might arise when working with Vagrant and VirtualBox.
The first issue I want to talk about is antivirus software.
Some Windows antivirus software such as Avira, AVG,
and others have been known to interfere
with the operation of VirtualBox.
I've listed some errors on your screen here
that can be associated with this type of issue.
If you get such an error when starting a virtual machine
try disabling your antivirus software
and rebooting your system.
Here's a screenshot of one such error.
Even if you're using Vagrant
to control your virtual machines,
it can be helpful to start the VirtualBox application
to get a better idea of what is happening
with your virtual machines.
Again, the workaround for this is to simply disable
the antivirus software or switch to another
antivirus software that doesn't interfere with VirtualBox.
If you happen to have a Mac, you could use it
for your coursework as most of the issues
we'll be talking about here are Windows related in some way.
Another issue you might encounter
is that your virtual machine's virtual network cable
may be disconnected on boot.
You'll see the message on your screen
after you run vagrant up if that's the case.
If you were to open up the VirtualBox application
you would find that the virtual machine is running.
Also, if you were to go to the settings
of that virtual machine and click on Network,
and finally click on Advanced,
you would see that the checkbox
next to cable connected is unchecked.
We want to make sure that this box is checked
and we can tell Vagrant to do that for us, here's how.
You add an additional stanza to your Vagrant file,
which is highlighted on your screen.
This tells Vagrant to make sure that the virtual cable
is connected for that virtual machine when it is started.
Once you've added this additional configuration
you can run vagrant reload
which will restart the virtual machine
this time with a network interface enabled.
If that doesn't work, the next step
is to go to the View Network Connections control panel
and see if there are any VirtualBox adapters
there that are disabled.
You'll probably see multiple VirtualBox adapters
and make sure that every one of them are enabled.
You can highlight the adapter
and then click Enable this Network device.
Once you've done this, you're ready to run vagrant reload
and test your network connectivity again.
This brings me to another issue I've seen before
and that's not editing the correct Vagrant file.
Sometimes we're working with multiple virtual machines
and we think we're editing one file
when we're actually editing another one.
I suggest starting your editor from the command line
in the directory that you're running
your Vagrant commands in.
One editor that I like and recommend is called Adam.
It has syntax highlighting so it makes spotting
some typing mistakes easier.
Also, it works on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
To edit the Vagrant file in your current directory,
simply execute Adam Space Vagrant file with a capital V.
Another reason you might see the previous error message
about the config.vm.boot_timeout setting
is because the virtualization settings for your processor
haven't been enabled in your BIOS.
You can confirm this by looking at the VirtualBox window
for your virtual machine
also known as the GUI or graphical user interface.
The easiest way to do that is to add the configuration
on your screen to the Vagrant file
and then run Vagrant reload.
If you see an error in your virtual machine window
that says something along the lines of
"This kernel requires an X86 64 CPU,
but only detected in I686 CPU, then you need to enable
the virtualization options in your BIOS.
This means making sure that you have
VTX for Intel processors
and AMDV for AMD processors enabled.
This varies from manufacturer to manufacturer
so you might have to look up the documentation
for your specific computer.
Really, one of the most common issues I see when working
with configuration files, including the Vagrant file
are simple typing mistakes.
A very common one that I see a lot that is specific
to Vagrant files is using an equal sign
in the config.vm.network line.
It looks correct, but it isn't.
You see config.vm.box followed by an equal sign.
You also see config vm.host name followed by an equal sign,
and if you continue with that pattern,
you'll actually use config.vm.network
followed by an equal sign,
but that is not the syntax that Vagrant is expecting.
The proper syntax is config.vm.network, followed by a space.
There is no equal sign on that line.
If you were to run Vagrant up with this configuration
you'll get an error like the one on your screen.
The good news is that the error message tells you
what line the problem is on, although it doesn't necessarily
point to the proper place in the line.
Again, just remove the equal sign
and when you run Vagrant up, you'll be all set.
This simple mistake just goes to show you
how important it is to pay attention to details.
Every little character counts,
punctuation and capitalization included.
During this course, you'll be installing web applications.
To be clear, if you're just now setting up
your local lab or local test environment,
you have not yet installed a web application,
so this section will not apply to you.
For example, there is no web server
or web application on Test Box 01.
However, if you've made it to the part of the course
where you are working with web applications
and you run into some network issues,
this section actually does apply to you.
If you can pinging your virtual machine
but you can't get to it from your web browser,
it could be a couple of different things.
First off, if you're using Microsoft Edge browser
it has some additional security features that prevent you
from connecting to a local IP address on your system.
So the first thing to do is try a different web browser.
I'm a big fan of Google's Chrome browser
but there are other good choices as well, such as Firefox.
If you've tried another web browser
and still can't connect to the web application,
then make sure the web server is running.
Look at its status with systemctl is-active httpd,
or systemctl status httpd.
If it stopped, then start it with
sudo systemctl start httpd.
Also make sure to enable it
with sudo systemctl enable httpd.
If we forgot this step and rebooted our virtual machine,
the web server will not start automatically on boot.
This is a common reason why the web server isn't running.
If the web server is running
but you still can't access your application
via a web browser, the next thing to check is the error log.
Do that by running sudo cat/var/log/httpd/error_log.
There is another issue with a web server
you'll almost always be able to determine
what it is by looking at the error log file.
By the way, if you're ever prompted
by Windows with a question like,
"Do you want to allow this app
to make changes to your computer?"
Answer, "Yes", it's either Vagrant or a VirtualBox
trying to configure your system for you.
You might see a message about HashiCorp
which is associated with Vagrant or Oracle,
which is associated with VirtualBox.
It's perfectly fine to give those applications
the ability to make changes on your system.
They're known good applications.
They aren't going to infect your system
with a virus, for example.
There's a chance you'll see something like this
the first time you try to configure an IP address
on one of your virtual machines for example.
If you don't allow Vagrant and VirtualBox
to modify settings on your window system
then they aren't going to function properly.
This next situation applies to Mac and Linux users.
Now, if you receive an error message
after running Vagrant of "The IP address configured
for the host only network is not within the allowed ranges."
Then you need to take a couple of additional steps.
The first command you need to run is sudo mkdir/etc/vbox.
What that will do will create the etc/vbox directory
if it doesn't already exist,
If it does already exist, that's okay.
You'll get a error message saying that it does no big deal.
Don't worry about it.
Now, the next command you need to run
is echo "* 10.0.0.0/8"
followed by a closing quotation mark,
and then you're going to type space the pipe symbol,
space again and then sudo tee -a /etc/vbox/networks.conf.
What this command does is adds a line of configuration
to the etc vbox networks.com file.
If that file happens to already exist, that's okay.
It just depends it to the bottom, and if it doesn't exist,
then it creates the file when you run this command.
So once you have this line of configuration
in etc/vbox networks.com,
you can go ahead and rerun your Vagrant command be that
vagrant up or vagrant to reload.
Again, this is only something that you'll see
on Mac or Linux systems.
If you've tried several troubleshooting steps
and nothing seems to work, I would suggest first
taking a break and then starting all over.
Start over with a fresh directory, then run Vagrant init
in that new directory and try again
all the way from the beginning of that project.
Sometimes when we try a little bit of this
and a little bit of that, we can create new issues.
So it can be best just to start over again
with a clean slate.
Finally, I wanna leave you
with one last troubleshooting step,
which is to simply reboot
your physical computer and try again.
There's a chance that something is not functioning properly
that isn't immediately obvious to us.
There could be a process or a procedure that is hanging
or a duplicate network configuration in use
because of all of our troubleshooting steps.
When it comes to troubleshooting our local systems,
this is a relatively quick and harmless thing to try.


=== Course Extras ===


--- Section Introduction ---

Instructor: Before you jump in and start learning
the ins and outs of shell scripting,
I wanna take just a minute to tell you what to expect
over the next few lessons.
The first shell script you're going to write in this course
creates new user accounts.
In that script, you're going to make sure the person
who executes the script has the proper privileges to do so
and you're going to make sure the specified account
was created successfully.
If for some reason the account creation process fails,
you're going to let the person
running the shell script know.
That's the first milestone you're working toward.
After you complete that initial script,
you're going to expand it and make it better
by automatically generating random passwords,
accepting command line arguments, and so on.
Now that you know what you're trying to accomplish,
you'll need to learn all the concepts
and techniques to build that script
and complete your first project.
Having a goal in mind and a project to implement
will actually help you learn and retain the material.
Instead of me just randomly teaching you some commands
and throwing various shell scripting tips at you
and then leaving it up to you to imagine
when you might use those commands and techniques,
you'll actually understand how, why, and most importantly
when to use everything you're taught.
You'll start out using these new skills
to accomplish meaningful work
in a relatively short period of time.
With that said, over the next four lessons
I'm going to be performing some demonstrations
and doing a good bit of teaching,
but just know that everything you're introduced to
is needed in order to write and use that first script.
If you are itching to dive in right away,
you can follow along with me during those lessons.
Keep in mind if you do that
you're probably going to be making good use
of the pause button to give yourself enough time
to type up the scripts, try out the commands, and so on.
By the way, all the scripts you'll see in the lessons
are included in the course download,
so you can quickly refer back to them
without having to re-watch the entire lessons.
If you choose to simply watch
and absorb all the information coming at you
during the next four lessons, that's perfectly fine too,
because you'll get to practice those skills
while working on the first scripting exercise.
After those first four initial lessons
you're going to get some very clear instructions
on what the shell script should do and how it should work.
Then you'll go off and write
and test that shell script on your own.
Of course, you can refer to any of the previous lessons
in demonstration scripts to help you complete that script.
After you write your script
you'll get a chance to see me work
through the exact same exercise.
You'll look over my shoulder as I write the shell script.
So that's what's in store for you.
Alright, enough background information.
Let's get to scripting.


=== Bonus Section ===


--- Getting Started with Shell Scripting: Naming, Permissions, Variables, Builtins. ---

Instructor: In this lesson,
you're going to learn some very important details
when it comes to getting started with shell scripting.
You're going to learn about shebangs, comments,
shell builtins, variables, and more,
so there's really a lot in this first lesson.
If you have shell scripting experience and those topics seem
basic or old hat to you, just be patient with me,
bear with me for just a moment.
We'll be getting to some new material for you soon enough.
You can either follow along right now with me,
or wait until the practice exercise
that's coming up very soon.
In the practice exercise, you'll get to apply the concepts
that you learn in this lesson.
The first thing I'm going to do is open up a terminal
on my local machine, here I am on my Mac,
and this process is the same whether you're using Mac
or Linux or Windows as your primary OS.
Now what I want to do is move into our working directory,
which is shell class, so I'll CD into shell class,
and now I'm going to make a new directory
that's going to house our Vagrant project
for a virtual machine that we're gonna create
and work on for the next few sessions
and for the first couple of practice exercises.
So we'll get into the shell class directory here.
We'll create local users, make dir local users.
We'll change into that directory.
The reason why I'm calling this directory local users is
that we're building toward creating a script that is going
to create local users, or users that are local to a system.
Later on in the course, we'll be creating a script
that will add remote users, or users to systems
other than the one that your script is executing on.
But for now, we're focusing on local users.
Now let's create the Vagrant file with Vagrant init,
and we'll specify the class image that we're using.
In order to run and execute the shell scripts
that you and I are going to be creating,
we need to be inside the virtual machine,
inside the Linux system that we've created.
So we'll get in there by connecting over SSH,
so we'll run Vagrant, SSH, and that will connect us
to the virtual machine that we just created.
Let's change into the /Vagrant directory
with CD /Vagrant, and press enter.
I'm going to run LS-L here, and that is
a long listing format of the LS command, the dash L,
and it just displays the files that are in the directory.
Now, it's important to note that we have the Vagrant file,
so on our current system in /Vagrant,
it's the same as our local system
as in your home directory shell class local users.
So as you can see here, this is my home directory,
it mounted /Vagrant to this local system.
So whatever we create inside the VM
in the Vagrant directory ends up on our local machine
in that local user's directory, and vice versa.
So here, you really have a choice to make.
You can either edit your scripts inside the virtual machine
using Nano, Emacs, or Vim,
or you can use the editor on your local system, so for me,
I'm going to use Vim because that's my favorite editor.
I've done a class on it.
I could talk hours and hours about Vim, I totally love it,
so that's what I'm going to do, but I will demonstrate
what it looks like from the other side here.
So I'm gonna go ahead and start creating the script.
I'm going to use my Vim command, Vim,
and I'm going to name the script L user-demo O1 .SH.
Now, I wanna point out here that file names
with shell scripts really don't matter.
We'll get into what does matter in just a second.
So by convention, shell scripts can end in .SH,
but they're not significant.
The file extension is not significant like it is,
for example, on Windows when something has
a .EXE file extension.
That's not the case on Linux.
We could name this anything.
We could just name it L user-demo 01 or .SH or Bob or Fred,
or any name that is a valid file name,
and that will work as a shell script.
So let me edit this file real quick,
and I'm just going to put a little bit of information
in here, a pound sign, an exclamation mark,
/bin, /bash, and I'm going to save my changes here.
And what I'm gonna do to show you what happens
with the file sharing, I'm just gonna do an LS
in this directory and you can see
that the L user-demo 01 .SH file was created.
But I'm going to open up that file in an editor
on my local Mac system,
and so I'm gonna use Atom in my case.
So here I have that same file open in the Atom editor,
but as you can see, it's in shell class local users,
so that's where it's at on your local system.
I'm just gonna add another line of text here.
I'll say hello from the main OS,
and I'm going to save my changes.
Now if I go back to the terminal where I'm logged
into the virtual machine and look at this file,
those changes will be there.
Let go ahead and just close out this file
to make sure nothing is going to interfere with that.
We'll go back to our terminal, and if we display
the contents of that file, L user-demo 01 .SH,
you can see that this new line of text has been added.
So that's what I'm talking about, your decision
of whether to edit from your local machine,
or whether to edit inside the virtual machine.
Again, I'm going to primarily edit
inside the virtual machine here,
and I'm gonna get back into that file,
Vim L user-demo 01, and by the way,
L user is just my personal shorthand for local user,
so that's what that's about.
Now let's talk about this very first line
in this shell script.
It's a pound sign followed by an exclamation point,
and then a path to bash, which is /bin /bash.
This is called a shebang.
The reason why it's called a shebang is
the pound sign is sometimes called a sharp.
If you've ever played music or read music,
you'll know that the pound sign looks very,
very similar to a sharp sign in music,
so a lot of people call the hash mark
or hash symbol or pound sign, sharp.
As far as the exclamation point, slang for that is bang.
So we have sharp bang,
but an inexact contraction of those two words is shebang.
So that's where shebang comes from.
And you wanna start out each shell script with a shebang,
sharp bang, and then a path to the interpreter.
So what will happen when you execute this script is that
the commands inside the script will be interpreted
by /bin /bash.
Now, if you had put in another interpreter, for example,
let's say user bin Python, or bin Ruby,
or whatever, now that's a Ruby script,
but we're doing shell, so we'll keep it as bash.
So really what happens is when you execute this script,
bin bash will get executed,
and the file name actually gets passed to that script,
and what happens is bash then executes everything
in this file.
I'll demonstrate that later in the course
by showing the process table and so on, but for now,
just know that the first line,
the shebang determines what is going to execute the commands
listed in the file that you're creating.
If you do not supply a shebang and specify an interpreter
on the first line of the script,
the commands in the script will be executed using
your current shell, and that may not be what you want.
For example, if you have some bash specific items
in your shell script, and you happen to be using
the CSH shell, when you execute it,
then you're going to end up with some errors.
And this is really important,
especially if you're working with a team,
you're writing a shell script, and you have no idea
what shell the other person will be using
when they execute this, so you wanna be very explicit,
use the shebang, and make sure you specify which interpreter
that you want to use for the script.
So I wanna remove this line we added in the other editor,
and what I like to do at the top of my shell scripts is
to give a goal or a comment about what's gonna happen
when the shell script is executed.
So when you start a line with a pound sign,
it's actually a comment.
Comments are not executed,
they're just simply there for us humans only,
with the exception, of course, of the first line,
which is a special line, but in all other cases,
that information there is just for us humans,
so we can put anything after the pound sign
after the comment,
and it's not gonna affect the functioning of our program.
And so here at the very top of the script,
I'm gonna tell what it does.
So this script just displays various information
to the screen, that's all this script does,
and so that's what I'm gonna put at the top of the file.
Now, when you start making very long and complex scripts,
and you come back to it a year later,
or someone else looks at it
and they're not sure what it does, just having a few notes
at the top of the script can really help someone out there.
I'm going to add another comment.
We're going to say what we wanna do is display
the text hello, and we're going to use
a command called echo, and then supply
the text we want to display to the screen, which is hello,
and we'll put that in single quotes.
I'm going to save my changes,
and then I'm going to exit out of the editor.
So just a minute ago, I talked about file extensions
and how they weren't relevant.
Now, what is relevant is an execute bit on the script.
Now hopefully, by the time you've got to this course,
you understand file permissions, but very quickly,
I'm going to do a quick review of them.
We'll just take a look at our previous LS output here
as a demonstration.
So these RW characters, R stands for read,
W stands for write,
and what goes here is X for executable,
and there will be three sets of these three permissions.
So we have RW-, R--, R--.
So the first three characters here represents
the permissions of the owner of the file.
The next three characters represents the permissions
that are granted to the group of the file.
And the last three characters here represent the permissions
that everyone else on the system has to this file.
So in this case, the Vagrant user, this is the user,
has read write permissions,
the Vagrant group has read permissions,
and then everyone else who is not the Vagrant user
or in the Vagrant group has read permissions to this file.
What we wanna do is add execute permission so that I, you,
and anyone else can actually execute this file,
and how we do that is with chmod,
so do chmod 755 L user demo 01,
and now let's look at the permissions.
Now they are R W X, which is read, write, execute,
read, execute for the group,
read, execute for everyone else that's not the user
or the owner of the file and in the Vagrant group.
So what this does is if you have read permission,
obviously, you can look at the contents of the file.
If you have write permission,
that means you can change the contents of the file,
and if you have X permission,
that means you can execute the file.
Typically, we want to read, write, and execute for ourselves
and read and execute for other people.
By the way, if you can't read the file,
then you can't execute it, because you can't see
the contents that are going to be read in
by the interpreter and executed and so on.
So typically, the default permission you want to put
on your shell scripts is 755, so to really quickly review,
where does this 755 come from?
Well, read, you can think of as four,
write as two, and execute as one,
and you add those together.
So seven is four plus two plus one,
which is read plus write plus execute,
so four, two, one is seven,
and that is for the owner of the file.
Five is read, which is four plus one, execute,
so that's five, and that is for the group,
so this corresponds to this middle set here.
Five again is the same thing, four plus one is five,
and that is for everyone else.
So if this is a little bit confusing for you
or you don't want to remember the specifics,
just remember that the default permission
we're going to be using is chmod 755
on the name of your script.
Okay, so now we have a script, it's executable,
so how do we execute that script?
Well, the first thing you wanna do is type in period,
forward slash, and the name of the script,
and then press enter.
So the output of this script is simply the word hello,
and that is because of the command echo hello
that we placed in the script.
Now, I wanna point out here that dot represents
this directory, so for example, if we did CD space dot,
we wouldn't go anywhere.
We would still be in the same directory.
Dot dot represents the parent directory,
so if we did C dot dot,
we'd move to the directory above the directory we were in.
Let me go back in the Vagrant directory.
So dot is this directory, and as you can see,
the forward slash is the directory separator.
So dot forward slash means this directory is dot,
forward slash is a directory separator,
and then the name of the script is the file.
So that's how you execute a file in your current directory,
dot forward slash, and then the name of the file.
This is equivalent to the full path,
so we could actually run /Vagrant L user demo 01,
and hit enter as well.
And again the reason why this dot slash works is
because dot represents the current directory,
which is /Vagrant, and then we specify a forward slash,
which is the same as this forward slash,
and then the name of the file,
which is the same as the name of this file,
so that's why that works.
So that's how you do it, so just remember
chmod 755 dot forward slash, and then the name of the file.
By the way, we could have named this file anything.
Again the SH doesn't matter.
As a matter of fact,
I'm going to rename the file really quick,
L user demo 01 to jaosn.
As a matter of fact, that's a typo.
I even misspelled my own name incorrectly,
but it doesn't matter.
I'm gonna execute it anyway, ./jaosn,
and we get the same results, so I'm gonna move that back.
Let me show you what it looks like
when you don't have the execute bit set.
Let's just use the touch command to create an empty file.
That's what touch does.
Touch either creates an empty file if one doesn't exist,
or it updates the last access timestamp of a file.
Let's do an LS here in this directory, so we have blah .SH.
There is no executable bit set on it,
so if we do ./blah .SH and hit enter,
we get permission denied because we do not have
execute permission on that file.
So that is what's gonna happen when you don't have
the proper permissions set.
So again, make sure you do chmod 755 in your file,
and you'll be good to go.
Let's continue working on our script.
We'll use Vim, and edit our file here.
So let's look at this echo command.
I kind of glossed over it to just get us started here,
and show the execute permissions,
and talk about file extensions and that sort of thing.
So the echo command just displays whatever is passed to it,
but where does echo come from?
Well, let's check it out back on the command line.
Echo is actually a shell builtin.
That means it's a command that's built within the shell.
It doesn't require any external programs to execute.
It's really just part of bash.
So how do we know it's a shell builtin?
Well, you can use the type command,
which is also a shell builtin,
to show you if it's a shell builtin or not.
So if you do type space the command you're interested about,
which we are interested in echo,
it says echo is a shell builtin.
So if you want to see all instances of echo on your system,
you do type dash A for all, and then type echo,
and so it lists 'em in the order that they will execute.
Echo is a shell builtin,
so really that's what's gonna execute when you type echo.
We'll just type echo now on the command line,
echo hello just like we had on our script and press enter,
and the shell builtin is what is executed.
Now, we can force the execution of this by using
the full path user bin echo,
and then pass something to it to display.
What you want to do is actually anytime
there is a shell builtin, to use the shell builtin,
so don't specify the full path, just use echo,
and it's a little more efficient,
because again it's built into the shell.
The shell doesn't have to request an external program
to do some extra processing and what have you,
so just use the shell builtin when it's available.
Another advantage of using shell builtins is that
it's more portable, for example,
if the echo command is on bin echo on some systems
and it's on user bin and another system,
then you might run into some issues there,
but if you use the shell builtin, you avoid all of that.
So you can kind of think of these builtins as free stuff
you get by using bash, and there's more
than just these builtin commands and functions.
There are builtin variables and all sorts of things,
which we'll be getting into soon enough.
By the way, if you want to get help on a shell builtin,
use the help command, so we'll do help echo,
and a lot of the information scrolled off
our screen quickly, so I'm gonna pipe it to less,
it's a pager so we can page up and down to this output.
So I'm gonna pipe it to less, hit enter,
and it says echo writes arguments to standard output.
Display the arguments on the standard output
followed by a new line.
So that's what the echo builtin does.
Let's look at an example of a command
that is not a shell builtin.
One command that comes to mind is uptime.
So uptime just displays how long the system
that you're logged into has been up.
We'll do type-A, pass in uptime to that,
and it says uptime is actually user bin uptime.
That's what gets executed when you run uptime.
So if you run help uptime, you're not gonna get any help,
because it's not a shell builtin.
However, if you wanted to get help on uptime,
you would use the man command, which is short for man pages,
so man or manual, man uptime, and press enter.
So that's how you get information on how to use commands
that are not part of shell builtins,
and we'll be looking at man pages along the way,
as well as help for builtin shell commands.
By the way, to exit out of man, type Q,
and it's the same way with list.
If I didn't mention that as well, you just type Q
to exit that pagination system there as well.
Remember that a shell script just executes every command
inside that script just as if you were typing it
on the command line.
So if we look at the contents of our script here,
if we were to do this,
# space display hello and press enter,
nothing happens, because the pound sign is a comment,
and comments aren't executed.
And if we type in the next line in the script,
echo hello and press enter,
then we get hello displayed to the screen,
and that's exactly what happens when we execute the script.
By the way,
this simple echo command can come in really handy
when you're debugging or writing scripts.
You can use it to show exactly what is going on
inside the script along the way.
Now let's get back to editing the script.
Let's assign a value to a variable.
Let's call this variable word,
and we'll follow that with an equal sign,
a single quote script, and end it with a single quote.
I'm going to save my changes.
Now, variables are simply storage locations
that have a name.
In this example, the name is word.
You can think of variables as name value pairs.
So if we were to access the variable of word,
the value that would be returned would be script.
Unlike some other programming languages,
when you are creating variables,
you don't have to specify its type,
whether it's a string or an integer, or anything like that,
you just assign it a value.
By the way, I wanna point out that it's very important
that there's no space in between the equal sign.
So it's the variable name followed by an equal sign
without any space, again without any space,
then the assignment.
In this case, we're assigning a string,
and strings are enclosed in quotation marks,
either single quotation marks or double quotation marks.
By the way, I recommend that you use
a descriptive name for your variables,
although it's not required.
This simply just makes the script easier to read.
Now, think about someone else who's going to be reading
the script, or maybe even yourself if it's a year later,
or a long time after you've originally written the script.
It would be easier for you to tell what's going on
if the variables had meaningful names.
Now, as a quick aside, I want to tell you about someone
I worked with whose last name started with Z,
and so everything he created contained a Z.
If you looked at his home directory,
he had a bunch of shell scripts.
One shell script was named Z,
the next shell script was named ZZ.
The next shell script was named ZZZ,
and there was a shell script named Z one,
one named Z two, one named ZZZZZZ one, one two, et cetera.
It just went crazy, like he had no imagination
other than the letter Z.
And then when you opened up one of his scripts
and looked in them, all the variables were the same,
Z equals blah, Z one equals blah, ZZ equals blah.
He was the only person that had any kind of clue
of what was going on with his scripts,
because they were almost impossible to read.
So again, using something like that works,
it's just not recommended.
By the way, there are some rules around variable names.
Variable names can contain letters, digits, and underscores,
and they can start with letters or underscores,
but they cannot start with a digit.
So for example, word is a valid variable name,
word one is a valid variable name,
_word is a valid variable name.
However, three word is not a valid variable name.
Also, you cannot use dashes, so something like this,
A-dash word is not a valid variable name.
It's invalid, you can't use that.
One more example would be an at sign,
you can't use that as well.
E@mail equals something is not going to work.
Let me get rid of these example names here.
Now that we've assigned a value to our variable,
let's go ahead and use that variable.
So we'll just do echo space double quotation marks,
dollar sign, the variable name, which is word,
and end it with a double quotation mark.
So when you reference the variable by name,
you get its value back.
Now, to do that, you have to precede the variable name
with the dollar sign, so when we want the value of word,
we use $word.
Now, you may have noticed that
in the previous echo statement, I used single quotes,
but in this echo statement, I used double quotes.
Single quotes prevent the expansion of variables,
so if you want echo to display exactly what you specify,
put it in single quotes.
If you want variables to be interpreted,
make sure that you use double quotes.
By the way, we're just using the echo shell builtin for now,
but this concept of single quotes and double quotes apply
to other commands as well.
To say that another way, it's not because we're using echo
that this expansion happens with double quotes
and it doesn't with single quotes.
It's the quotes themselves that is causing
this expansion or not.
And then you can use this functionality with other commands,
not just with echo.
So let's execute this script and see what happens.
Okay, we get hello, which is from echo hello.
Then we set the word variable to equal script,
and then we displayed that word variable,
which actually in turn displays the word script.
By the way, you can do what I'm doing here
as far as your workflow goes,
which is to open your editor, edit the file,
exit your editor, and then execute the script.
Another thing you could do is actually open up
a new terminal window, connect to the Vagrant system,
get into that directory,
and then execute that script with the other terminal,
so you just switch back and forth between terminals,
versus entering and exiting your editor all the time.
Just use whatever method works best for you.
For now, for the rest of this lesson,
I'm just going to edit the script, exit out,
execute the script, and so on.
So let's return to editing our script.
Add a comment here of what we're about to do.
Okay, we're putting $word, which is our variable,
inside single quotes.
Now let's see what effect that has.
So as you can see, using SQL quotes displays
exactly what is in the single quotes.
It doesn't do any expanding or interpreting
of the variables, it's exactly what you specify,
so just keep that in mind.
If you're using variables, use double quotes.
If you want to be very specific and make sure
that nothing gets changed, use single quotes.
Okay, let's do some more editing here.
So you can use variables with hard-coded texts.
So here, we have some texts that we just manually typed in.
This is a shell, and then we use a variable
which is $word, so we want the value
of that variable to be returned.
Let's exit out and execute this script and see what happens.
So it gets interpreted,
and the output is this is a shell script.
You can also enclose the variable name in curly braces
and precede the opening brace with the dollar sign.
So the syntax is dollar sign opening curly brace,
then the variable name, followed by a closing curly brace.
By the way, when you're reading scripts written by others,
you'll see both types of syntax being used.
You'll see the dollar sign with the variable name,
as well as the dollar sign,
including the braces in the variable name.
Now let's execute our script and see what happens.
So we get the same exact output
as the preceding echo command.
It's we're just using the different syntax.
Now, if we wanna append text to the variable,
we have to use this dollar sign brace syntax.
Let me show you an example.
So if we want to append ING directly after the output
of the variable, we have to use the curly braces,
otherwise, bash doesn't know
that the variable is actually word, W-O-R-D,
and that the part that's not the variable is ING.
It has no way of knowing that unless you use the braces
to separate the variable
from the preceding or following text.
Now let's execute this.
Okay, it says scripting is fun.
Again, script is what was stored in the word variable.
ING is what we hard-coded in the echo statement there.
So let's demonstrate how not to append text to a variable.
I was just talking about this, let's do this.
So this is not gonna work, echo $word ING is fun.
Again, bash doesn't know
that ING is not part of the variable name.
By the way, I didn't necessarily mention this,
but by convention, not by rule or syntax,
variables are in all uppercase.
That's why I used uppercase word as a variable name,
and that way you can typically easily spot
what is a variable and what is not.
However, since that's only a convention or a best practice
and it's not enforceable by syntax, then bash isn't going,
"Oh, ING is lowercase, so therefore,
it's not part of the variable name."
No, that's not how it works.
You can actually use lowercase variables and some people do,
so this will not work, let's prove it here.
You get blank is fun for the last bit of output.
That's because $word ING, that variable doesn't exist,
so it doesn't expand to anything,
so there's nothing there,
and it displays nothing, and that was followed
by a space is space fun exclamation point,
so that is what it gets displayed on the screen,
space is space fun exclamation point.
Now let's create another variable for our script here.
We're going to name this variable ending.
Again we're going to use all uppercase letters,
because that is the convention or best practice,
not required, but that's how we're going to do it.
We're not going to use spaces, because that will cause
an error, so we wanna make sure there are no spaces here.
We're going to use single quotes, and type in ED,
and close it with single quotes,
because we're not doing any variable expansion.
Here, we're just doing a strict assignment
of ED to this variable.
Now let's combine these two variables that we've created.
So as you can see, we used this dollar sign brace syntax,
so this variable of word will get interpreted,
and then $ending here will get interpreted as well.
So we'll get this is script,
and this should expand to ED, E-D here.
So let's prove this by executing it on the command line.
Sure enough, we get this is scripted,
because the word variable contains the value of script,
and the ending variable contains the value of ED.
Now let's change the value
that's stored in the ending variable.
This is called reassignment, by the way.
Now we're going to change the value
that's stored in ending to ING.
By the way, you can overwrite the contents of the variables
just using assignments or these reassignments.
So the first time ending is specified, it's equal to ED.
When you access the ending variable,
that's what gets displayed,
but since the scripts are read from the top down,
just as if you were typing them in at the command line,
when you change the value of ending,
then anything that follows that will use that new value,
and let's prove that here.
We'll do echo $word $ending is fun,
save our changes, and execute our script.
So we have scripting is fun, so word expanded to script.
The ending, since we changed it to ING, expanded to ING,
so scripting is what you get when you combine word
and ending together.
Again we used that special brace syntax so that
batch could tell where one variable started and ended,
as well as the other variable where it started and ended.
Let's do one more reassignment.
We'll assign S to ending.
Okay, let's save our changes, and execute our script.
You are going to write many scripts in this class.
All right, this brings us to the end of this lesson.
In this lesson, you've learned a lot.
You've learned about file naming, file naming conventions,
how file names don't determine if something is a script
or executable or not.
It's actually the execute bit on the file itself
that determines if you can execute it as a script or not.
You also learned about shebangs.
You learned how to use comments effectively,
create a header in your file,
and comment the script along the way.
You learned about the difference between a shell builtin
versus a normal command on the system,
how to get help with shell builtins,
which is to specify the word help,
followed by the name of the shell builtin.
You also learned that you can get help
about general commands on the system using man pages,
so man followed by the command.
Again, man and a shell builtin will not provide any help,
but you can get help from man bash
or help and the shell builtin.
Finally, we talked about variables,
how to assign them, how to reassign them.
We talked about single quotes, and how nothing
inside single quotes gets expanded or interpreted,
and how things inside double quotes do get expanded,
interpreted, such as variables.
We talked about the two different syntaxes
you can use with variables.
One is just prepending a dollar sign to the variable name,
and the other prepending a dollar sign
and surrounding the variable in braces.
You learned that that second syntax is required
if you want to immediately precede or immediately follow
that variable with some additional data.
Even though using the dollar sign
and brace encapsulation method is a best practice
when working with variables, I showed you the other method
so that if you see other people's scripts,
you know what they're doing,
and it doesn't come as a surprise to you.
Okay, that wraps it up for this lesson.

--- Special Variables, Pseudocode, Command Substitution, if Statement, Conditionals. ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you're going to learn about
some special variables created by the Shell ,
how to store the output of a command in a variable,
and we're gonna talk a little bit about the if statement.
First thing I'm gonna do here
is open up a terminal on my local machine.
I'm gonna go into our class folder of Shell class.
From here, I'm going to go into local users,
cd local users.
We're still working on creating local users
and I'm going to start this virtual machine.
Once the machine is booted,
you can connect to it with vagrant SSH.
Now let's move into our shared folder
of /vagrant and we'll get there with a CD command.
Now let's start working on the script for this lesson.
I'm gonna call this luser-demo02.sh.
Remember, we always start our scripts with a shebang.
So I'm gonna start out
with a sharp bang forward slash bin forward slash bash.
As you probably remember from the last lesson,
I like to put a header at the top of the file
that just describes what the shell script is going to do
and I'm gonna put that in right now.
So these are the two main goals that I have for this script
which is to display the UID , which stands for the user ID
or user identification number, and the username
of the user that's executing this particular script.
And the last thing we want to do in this script
is to display if the user that is executing the script
is the root user or if they are some other user.
They're either the root user executing the script
or they're not.
One of the things that can help you write shell scripts
is to think about all the steps that it takes
to accomplish your goal.
We have the goal in the header.
So now let's think about some steps that we need to take
in order to accomplish our goal.
A lot of people call this sudo coding.
And so what you do is you just write in plain English
in your language of what you want to accomplish as a comment
put those comments in your file
and then go back and put in the exact shell commands
and syntax that you'll need to accomplish
each one of those tasks.
So it's kind of like outlining
before you write the shell script.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do that now.
The first thing I want to do is display the UID .
The next thing I want to do is display the username.
And finally what I want to do is display
if the user is the root user or not.
So now we have our header and our sudo code.
Now let's start filling in the code.
So the first thing we want to do is display the UID
and of course you know that the echo shell builtin
displays information to the screen,
and we're going to use something
that the shell gives us for free.
I'm gonna show you here your UID is UID.
As you know, if you proceed something with a dollar sign
and enclose it in curly braces that it's a variable.
This variable is UID
but we didn't assign a variable or set a variable.
So where is that variable going to come from?
Well, remember that I said you get a lot of stuff "stuff"
for free when you use bash, and one of the things
you get for free are special preset variables.
So let's go ahead and write and quit our script.
Remember, before you execute the script for the first time,
you wanna set the executable bit on it.
And now let's execute our script and see what happens.
Okay, it says your UID is 1000.
So let's look at the bash man page
to see where this UID comes from.
By the way, to navigate a man page,
you're going to use VI or vim key bindings.
And so how to search forward is forward slash
and then the string you're searching for.
We're looking for UID, so we'll do that
and hit enter to take us to the first instance of that.
If we wanna keep going down the file,
we'll hit N to go to the next occurrence.
And here you can see that the information about this says
that it expands to the ID of the current user
initialized at shell startup.
This variable is read only.
That means that a user can't change it.
So if we were to check against this UID,
we can be fairly certain
that it's going to be the actual source of truth.
It's really going to have the UID in it.
Now, let me back up a little bit.
I'm going to hit shift N to back up to the previous match.
Now there is a similar variable here called EUID
which expands to the effective user ID
of the current user initialized at shell startup.
This variable is also read only.
So in reality, we could use EUID or UID.
The only time that UID would be different from EUID
is in the case of a set UID script.
When a file has a special set UID permission set on it,
the file actually gets executed as the owner of the file
no matter what user is executing the file.
So if it's set UID root and we're the vagrant user
and we execute the script, our UID is 1000 for vagrant
but our EUID is zero for root.
However, this is rarely seen.
Modern Linux systems, for security reasons ,
do not allow scripts to be set UID.
So this is just something to keep in mind.
For example, if you're working on say
a proprietary Unix system that's somewhat old.
But again if you're working on modern day Linux systems
you can safely use UID because EUID and UID
are going to be the same.
But just know, if you see that somewhere else,
that is where that comes from.
Okay, let's back up even farther.
I'm gonna type question mark for a reverse search
and type shell and hit enter here.
So the EUID and UID that we were just reading about
happen to be in the shell variables section
of the bash man page.
So not only do you get EUID and UID,
you get several other variables that anytime you start bash
that all of these are going to be set.
So if you want, take a moment here
and just read down these variables
and see what's available to you.
Okay, I'm just going to hit Q to quit
since we're done looking at the man page.
And I quickly want to demonstrate
that thE UID is indeed read only.
So if we do echo UID, it's 1000.
If we do UID equals, let's say we're going to set it
to 1001, hit enter, it says no you can't do that
because it's a read only variable.
So again, we can trust the information
that's in thE UID variable.
So if you remember from our script,
the next thing we want to do
is actually display the username.
So how do we do that?
Well, one way to do that is with the ID command
and let's see this type-a id.
So it is actually a program and it's not a hell builtin.
So since it's not a hell builtin
we can learn about it by using the man page, man ID.
By the way, when you're looking at a man page,
if you see things that are enclosed in square brackets
that means they are optional.
So here you can see ID with optional option
and optional user.
So actually you can run this command on its own
and it doesn't require any arguments
because they're all optional.
Additionally, if you see these three dots or three periods,
also called an ellipses, I do believe,
that you can specify multiple of whatever precedes it.
So you can have the ID command followed by multiple options
and then one optional user.
So the description here says print user
and group information for the specified user
or when user omitted for the current user.
So I'm going to look at what our options are here.
Dash N will print a name instead of a number
and so we are actually looking to print a name
so that's useful.
Dash U, print only the effective user ID.
So those look like the two things that we need to use
to print a username would be dash U N.
I'm gonna hit Q here
and just test out the ID command with no options.
ID, hit enter.
It says our UID is 1000, vagrant is our username.
GID is 1000, which is the group ID
and vagrant is the username of that group.
And the group that we're a member of is also called vagrant
with a group ID of 1000.
So now let's specify ID space dash U
and that prints out the UID of 1000.
Now, if we wanted to add the dash N option,
we could do this, ID dash U dash N,
and it displays our username.
I also wanna point out that it doesn't matter
about the order of these options
so I can do ID dash N, dash U and get the same result.
Another thing I want to point out
is when you have these single character options
you can combine them.
So we'll do ID dash
and then we can list all the single character options
that we need without any further dashes.
So we'll do dash NU and that will give us our username
or it doesn't matter about the order.
So we can do ID space dash UN, press enter
and we get the same result.
For me, ID dash UN is aesthetically pleasing
because it's U for user, N for username.
So that makes sense to me.
That's the command I'm going to use.
But any of those variations work, obviously.
So if you see them, you'll know what's going on.
By the way, some of you may be familiar with
the 'whoami' command?
We'll execute it now.
And that would be another option.
Let's look at what type of command it is.
It is a program,
so I'm gonna use the man page to learn more about it.
Whoami, print effective user id?
Whoami, again, you can specify options.
The options are optional
and you can specify more than one of them.
The description is, print the username
associated with the current effective user ID,
same as ID dash UN.
So that's what we're gonna use, ID dash UN.
You can use who am I if you would like as well.
Okay, let's return to editing the script.
Before we display the username,
let's assign the username to a variable.
We'll call that variable user_name.
If you want to store the output of a command
into a variable,
you use the syntax you see here on your screen,
which is variable name
equals dollar sign opening parentheses,
then the command and a closing parentheses.
The value for the variable name user_name
will equal the output of ID dash UN.
Let's test this here.
Let's echo it to our screen.
Okay, I'm gonna say my changes and execute the script.
Okay, so it says your UID is 1000,
your username is vagrant.
I want to demonstrate an alternative syntax
that you'll see sometimes as well.
So let's edit our script.
Let's comment out this line.
I'm going to make a copy of it,
and then instead of dollar sign opening parentheses,
I'm going to replace that with a tick.
And the closing parentheses,
I'm going to replace that with a tick as well.
Going to execute this script
and see if we get the same result.
And sure enough we do, let's get back into here.
So that is an older style syntax.
The tick marks that surround a command to assign that
to a variable.
That's the older syntax.
So again, I like to show you these things
because different people write shell scripts
in different ways and you'll be looking at shell scripts
from perhaps earlier times that were written
without these modern conventions.
So if you see these back ticks,
know that it's the same thing
as the dollar sign, parentheses syntax.
So I'm gonna remove that line, unconmment that other line,
and we should be back to where we were.
First, I'm gonna type out an if statement here
and then we we'll talk through it.
So an if statement begins with the keyword 'if'
followed by a space, then double opening brackets
followed by a space, and then an expression.
After that expression, you'll use a space
and then the closing double brackets.
On the next line, you'll use the keyword 'then'
and then whatever follows that will get executed
if the expression evaluates to true.
So in our case, if the UID is equal to zero,
then we'll execute the code that says echo you are root.
If you want to include an else statement
then you use the 'else' keyword
and then the code that follows that will execute
if the expression evaluates to false.
So if UID is not equal to zero,
then what's gonna happen is echo will be run
with you are not root displaying to the screen.
You close your if statement with fi
which is the reverse of if
and that is the general syntax for the if statement.
I wanna point out a couple of different things here.
Again, the 'if' keyword should be followed by a space.
The opening double bracket should be followed by a space.
And the closing double bracket
should have a space preceding it.
When you are using variables
inside of these double brackets as a test,
you always want to enclose them in quotation marks.
Okay, let's get back to the Shell
and learn a little bit more about this 'if' statement.
So let's do type dash A If.
It turns out that if is a shell keyword
so we can get help on that with 'help if'.
So here it says if commands semicolon,
then commands semicolon.
And then, as you already know,
things that are in brackets are optional
so you can optionally use elIf or else.
And then what is not optional is the closing fi.
So if you remember, I said we were going to do this,
we're going to use 'if'
and then a double brackets here and do a test.
So what I want to point out is
in the 'if' description it says
if commands semicolon, then commands semicolon.
What the semicolon is is the command separator.
Another command separator is to hit enter
or begin on a new line.
So if we bring this last command
in our shell history back up, I'll just hit the up arrow.
You can see that where there were line breaks
when I entered them in on the command line,
they are now replaced with semicolon.
So again, the semicolon is a command separator.
So anytime you see a semicolon
in some of these descriptions,
know that you can use a new line.
And I like to use the new line
so it doesn't run altogether
and it looks visually better to me
and it's easier for me to read.
However, it is correct to also use a semicolon
and keep it all on one line.
I just wanna point out that if your command is not completed
when you hit enter
you'll get a different looking prompt here
which is the greater than sign.
And then once the command is done,
then you'll get your normal prompt back.
I just wanted to point that out.
So let's keep reading about the if statement.
The 'if' commands list is executed.
You can think a list as a list of commands.
The 'if' commands list is executed
if it's exec status is zero
then the 'then' commands list is executed.
You can think of an exit status of zero being true.
So if this is true, then do that.
Else, if it's not true, then do something else.
So you have a general idea of how the if statement works.
However, in the if description it says
'if commands' and if those commands have an exit status zero
then execute some code.
Well, where do we get these double brackets?
Well, let me show you.
Those double brackets are actually a shell keyword.
So let's get help on those.
So here it says double brackets expression,
closing double brackets.
Also says it returns a status of zero or one
depending on the evaluation
of the conditional expression expression.
Expressions are composed of the same primaries
used by the test builtin
and may be combined using the following operators.
We're not gonna worry about those operators for a moment,
but the thing to keep in mind here is that it says
you can use the same things that you can use
with a test builtin to generate your expressions.
So test is indeed a shell builtin
as well as a command.
We're interested in using the builtin.
So we'll get help with it.
We'll do help test, and I know from experience
that a lot of information is gonna scroll off the screen.
So one way to prevent that is to use a pager.
So we'll use a pipe to pipe the output
of help test into our pager of less.
Let's hit enter and see what happens.
So the test builtin evaluates conditional expressions.
Here again, it just reiterates what you already know.
Zero is true, one is false.
So here are all the tests that you can do.
You can do file operators like dash a file to test
if a file exists,
Dash B if it's a block special device and so on.
Dash D if it's a directory.
So there are all these types of tests
you can use against files.
Additionally, there are string operators.
So dash Z string returns true if the string is empty
or dash N string returns true if the string is not empty.
You can compare strings with the equal sign
or the not equal, the less than and greater than et cetera.
This is actually what we're doing in our shell script.
We're comparing the number of the UID to zero.
We're saying is the UID dash EQ,
which stands for equal to zero.
If it is equal, then that's true and it returns to zero.
I'll hit Q to exit out of the pager.
Okay, let's execute our script and see what result we get.
It says your UID is 1000, your username is vagrant.
You are not root.
By the way, if I failed to mention it,
the UID of zero is always assigned to the root user.
Root always has the UID of zero
on every Linux system that you'll ever encounter.
Every Unix system that you'll ever encounter,
root is always the UID of zero.
That's why we check against it because it's a guarantee.
You could in theory test against the username,
but it's probably a little bit more safe and secure
to test against UID zero
because again, that is always a hundred percent
always assigned to the root user.
Speaking of root,
let's execute this program as the root user.
One way to do that is use the sudo command,
which stands for 'super user do'.
So we'll do sudo luser demo02 SH
and hit enter.
So now since we're using the sudo command,
this command actually gets executed as root.
So it says your UID is zero, your username is root.
You are root.
We could have also switched to the root user
and done this as well.
You can do SU, and by the way the password for the root user
on this system is vagrant.
And then now we can execute that as the root user.
And it says your UID is zero, your username is root.
You are definitely root.
Okay, I'm gonna exit back out to the vagrant user.
Let's look at the contents of our file one more time.
I wanna point out
that this double bracket syntax we're using
with the if statement is a bash specific thing.
So this may not be portable to all shells.
For example, if you're using CSH script,
that's probably not gonna work for you,
but if you're using bash, it will work.
Another thing to note about the double bracket syntax
is that it really replaced the single bracket syntax.
So actually you may see some shell scripts
that look like this, if with a single opening bracket
then a conditional expression and a single closing bracket.
So again, just know
that the double brackets is the new way to do it.
You can also use the single brackets.
That's an older way to do it.
Let's get out to the shell here
and we can actually do this.
The single opening bracket is a shell builtin,
but it's actually also a command on the file system.
So on older Unix systems, this is how it would work.
So sure enough, that's a file that's located
at user bin opening bracket.
It's a file and you can execute it like that.
So if you're using a really slimmed down shell
that doesn't have the opening bracket builtin,
the shell script will default
to using user bin and the opening bracket.
However, we're using bash,
we don't have to worry about that.
And again, we're going to use the newer syntax
of the double brackets.
Okay, let's look at our script one last time.
Now, this last block of code, this if statement,
if the UID equals zero, then you are root,
else you are not root.
Some people call this type of checking, idiot checking
and it's to help people from doing idiotic things.
Other people call it sanity checking.
And by the way, it's a good idea
to check for any requirements in your shell script.
If you know something that is required
for the script to work properly, check for it.
Never assume things are just gonna be the way
that you want them to be.
For example, if a script adds users
and adding users requires root privileges,
then you want to check for root privileges.
Don't assume that the user knows
that they need to execute it with root privileges.
They may execute it as their own user.
So you wanna do some sanity checking,
or some idiot checking if you will,
to make sure that that happens as needed.
And you'll wanna do this type of sanity checking
throughout the script whenever it's needed.
Okay, that brings us to the end of this lesson
where you learned about some special variables
that are created by the shell,
how you can look up those variables by using man bash.
You also learned how to store the output of a command
in a variable using the dollar sign, parentheses syntax.
You also learned about how to use an if statement
or in our specific case, the if else statement.
And we talked a little bit about conditionals.
You also learned that you could use help tests
from the command line to get some information
about possible tests or expressions
or conditions that you can check for.
Finally, you learned about some of the older syntax options
such as using back ticks when assigning the output
of a command to a variable
and using a single bracket when doing tests
versus the double bracket.

--- Exit Statuses, Return Codes, String Test Conditionals, More Special Variables. ---

Lecturer: In a previous lesson,
we used the IF statement in a positive form,
meaning if this expression is true, then do something.
In this lesson, we're going to use the logic
of if this expression is not true, then do something.
You're also going to learn how to determine
if a given command failed or succeeded
by checking the exit status of the command,
as well as how to control the exit status of your scripts.
You can follow along with me right now if you'd like
or you can wait for the practice exercise,
where you'll get to apply all the concepts
you've learned so far.
The first thing I'm going to do is open up
a command line session on my local machine,
and move into our working folder.
From here, I'm going to go into the project folder
that we're working on, which is localusers.
Now, I'm gonna start up the virtual machine
and connect to it.
Now that I'm inside the virtual machine,
I'm going to cd into the shared directory of /vagrant,
and I'm going to start working
on the script for this lesson, which is lusers,
which stands for local user-demo03.sh.
Of course, we start out our shell scripts
the exact same way every time,
we supply the interpreter
to be used on the shebang line here.
Now, we're going to specify a goal for our script.
(keyboard clicks)
So this script is just gonna display the UID
and username of the user that's executing the script,
and we're also going to display to the screen
if the user is the Vagrant user or not,
so we're going to test for the Vagrant user.
I'm gonna go ahead and put the steps in as comments
and then fill in the code as we go,
so the first step we want to do is display the UID.
(soft keyboard clicks)
The next thing we're going to do is only display a message
if the UID does not match 1000.
From there, we're just going to display the username,
then we're going to test if the username command succeeded.
From there, I'm gonna demonstrate
how you can use a string test conditional.
Next, we're going to test for not equal for the string.
So let's go back to the top of our script here
and start filling in some code.
So the first thing we want to do is display the UID,
as you already know, the UID is a shell variable
that is set by default so we can just display that.
We're going to use double quotes
because we're going to have a variable
in here that we want to get expanded.
Of course, when we access a variable,
we access it with a $ and opening curly brace,
the variable name and a closing curly brace.
So let's just write and quit our changes here,
and then execute the script and see what happens.
Remember, the script has to have the executable bit set
on it before it can be executed,
so we're going to chmod the script.
Now, we're going to execute it with ./luser-demo03.sh.
Okay, it displays our UID, which is 1000.
Now let's get back to the script
and continue editing our script here.
Now what we want to do is only display a message
if the UID does not match 1000,
so we're going to have a variable called UID_TO_TEST_FOR,
and we're going to set that to 1000.
By the way, there's this concept called DRY,
which stands for Don't Repeat Yourself."
We're going to apply that concept
in this script through the use of a variable.
We're going to reference this UID more than once,
so instead of hard coding that UID
in multiple places in the script,
you're going to specify that value in one place.
If you ever want to change that UID,
you only have to change it in one place
and not go searching all throughout the entire script,
and change it in multiple places.
In a small script like we're writing here,
it might not look like that's such of a big deal
but when you create longer, more complex scripts,
you're going to be glad that you followed the DRY principle.
Okay, so let's test for this UID with an IF statement.
We remember that we used the "if" keyword followed by space,
double opening brackets followed by space.
We're going to look at the UID,
and we're going to see if it's actually not equal
to the UID that we're going to test for.
(soft keyboard clicks)
If the UID is not equal to the UID_TO_TEST_FOR,
then we're going to display,
"Your UID does not match UID that we're testing for."
(soft keyboard clicks)
Let's say we don't want the user to go any farther
unless they have the UID of 1000.
In order to stop the execution of a script,
we're gonna use the exit command.
By the way, we can supply an exit status
after the exit command, we're going to supply one here.
The reason why we're going to specify one is
because the script does not successfully execute all the way
through the bottom as it should,
so we're going to want to exit with a non-zero status.
So by convention, when a script
or a program executes successfully,
it returns an exit status of zero,
if it doesn't execute successfully for whatever reason,
it returns a non-zero exit status.
A lot of times that exit status is one,
however it could be two, it could be 99, it could be 244,
you can use a variety
of different exit statuses if you want.
Lemme close out this IF statement
and I'll show you an example.
Let me write in quit real quick,
so let's look at a command that we're going to use.
We're gonna be using the useradd command to add users,
so let's take a look at its man page.
I'm going to search for exit statuses
by /exit and press Enter.
So here it's calls them exit values.
The useradd command exits
with the following values, zero at it's success.
You can actually test for these exit statuses
and we'll get to that in just a minute.
So for example, exit status
of nine means the username is already in use.
So if you're writing a script
and you run the useradd command,
and you get an exit status of nine,
then you can know that that username is in use
and it's not for some other reasons,
such as an invalid command syntax,
which would be an error status of two.
So again, we're going to use the exit shell builtin,
and let's get some help about that,
let's see what help is available for exit.
So as you can see, you can use exit
without any options because the N there is
in brackets, and that means it's optional,
so you can just type exit and it exits the shell.
If you want to supply an exit status,
you just supply it to exit, exit one for example,
like we're using in our script.
If you omit that status, then the exit status
is that of the last command executed.
Sometimes that's what you want
and sometimes that's not what you want,
so if you want to be explicit,
then specify a exit status
following the exit shell builtin.
Let's get back to our script real quick here.
So now we've gone over the exit status,
so let's review where this -ne came from.
So if the UID is -ne,
which means not equal to the UID_TO_TEST_FOR,
then we're going to execute this code.
Hopefully you can remember that you can get information
about these tests by running help test,
and here, we're doing arithmetic tests,
means we're testing numbers.
Here we have -eq, which corresponds to equal,
-: ne is not equal, -lt is less than,
-: le is less than or equal,
-: gt greater than, and -ge is greater than or equal to.
So we're using -ne to test for not equal.
Now let's go ahead and execute our script,
and see what happens.
It says, "Your UID is 1000",
and no messages were displayed to the screen,
because UID does not equal 1000 is actually false.
Now let's see what happens when we execute the script
with a different user ID.
Well, one way to do that is to execute it
with sudo privileges, and that will run the script
with root user privileges, and as we know,
the root user always has the UID of zero.
(keyboard clicks)
So this time you get, "Your UID is zero,
your UID does not match 1000."
So the IF statement evaluates
to if zero not equal 1000,
then do something which is to echo,
"Your UID does not match 1000."
Okay, let's continue working on our script.
Now, let's display the username.
As you probably remember,
the $ parentheses syntax
is used to capture the output of a command,
and we're going to send the output of that command,
and store it into the variable user_name.
Now, what we want to do is test
if that id command succeeded,
and how we do this of course, is with an IF statement.
So Bash has some special variables that it sets,
and one of these special variables is $?.
And of course, as you know,
you can encapsulate that in curly braces,
so ${?}, is actually a special variable
that holds the exit status
of the most recently executed command.
So the most recently executed command
in our script is id -un,
so the exit status of that script is going
to be stored in $?.
Now we can use $? to do some comparisons here
and make a decision.
So if $? does not equal zero,
then what we want to do is tell the person
that's executing this script
that, "The id command did not execute successfully."
And we're going to cause our script to exit as well,
so we'll just do exit one, and then close our IF statement.
If we get past this IF statement,
that means the id command did successfully complete,
so we can display their username.
So let's execute this script on the command line
and also do some demonstrations
with the $? special variable.
(keyboard clicks)
So now the output of the script is, "Your UID is 1000,
your username is vagrant", and as you remember,
the username is a vagrant echo command
was directly after the IF statement,
so the IF statement did not execute,
so that means the id command actually executed properly.
So let's test this out, let's do id -un,
which we know is a good command
to get the username of the current user.
Again, the special variable $?
contains the exit code, let's look at it.
So we'll do echo $?,
and the exit status of the id command is zero.
Now, let's make the id command fail in some way.
I happen to know that -x is not a valid option to id,
so let's run that command and see what happens.
So we get an invalid option -x,
so now let's look at the exit status
which is stored in $?.
So now you can see that one is the exit status
of that command that failed, so again,
by convention it's a non-zero exit status,
in this case, it's one, again, it could be two,
it could be three, it could be 100, could be nine,
in our useradd example that we were looking at earlier.
So again, if we want to test for success,
we'll probably want to test
if it does not equal zero, because that's the convention.
Okay, let's continue with our script.
Instead of testing numbers,
let's do a test against a string,
so let's have a username to test for.
(soft keyboard clicks)
We'll use an IF statement to perform a test.
(soft keyboard clicks)
So this reads, "If the username equals
the USER_NAME_TO_TEST_FOR,"
if that turns out to be true,
then what we want to do is echo, "Your username
matches the USER_NAME that we're testing for."
It's important to point out
that the equal sign can either be an assignment operator,
or a test operator depending on the context.
If you look at the variable assignment
USER_NAME_TO_TEST_FOR,
that equal sign is used as assignment,
we're assigning the value of vagrant
into the value of USER_NAME_TO_TEST_FOR.
However, when we're doing a test
inside these double brackets, then it's a test operator,
it's not assigning USER_NAME_TO_TEST_FOR to username,
it's comparing them, it's testing them.
By the way, sometimes you'll see a double equal sign,
and let me put this in the script to show you here,
so sometimes you will see that.
When you use the double equal sign operator,
the string to the right of the operator
is used as a pattern, and pattern matching is performed.
So we're not looking for a pattern,
we're looking for an exact match,
so we'll just use one equal sign, however,
some people even use the double equal signs
when they don't use a different pattern
if they're also using the exact match.
So be aware that sometimes you'll see a single equal sign,
and sometimes you'll see a double equal sign,
we're going to stick with a single equal sign in this case.
Okay, let's exit out of our script,
and see what happens when we execute It now.
Says our UID is a thousand, our username is vagrant,
and our username matches vagrant.
Well, let's run this with sudo, our UID is zero,
your UID does not match 1000, and again,
if you remember, we had an exit statement
in our script and we exited it as one,
so let's check the exit status and see if that's true.
And sure enough, the exit status of our script is one.
Okay, let's get back to our script and finish it up.
Now, let's test for inequality using an IF statement
with a string, so we'll do if, double brackets,
the USER_NAME is not equal to the USER_NAME_TO_TEST_FOR,
then we're going to echo,
"Your username does not match USER_NAME_TO_TEST_FOR,"
and then we're going to exit with one,
and we're going to end the IF statement with fi.
And finally, if we may get all the way to the end
of the script, we can use exit and we can be very explicit
about the exit status that we want to use,
we'll use zero to say our script completed successfully.
Remember that if you don't specify an exit status
or exit code, the exit status of the most recently,
previously executed command will be used as the exit status
of your script, or as the exit status of the exit command.
Okay, that wraps it up for this script,
let's save our changes and execute it at the command line.
So you can see the output on the screen,
and let's check our exit status.
Okay, we have an exit status of zero,
which means by convention
that our script completed successfully.

--- Reading Standard Input, Creating Accounts, Username Conventions, More Quoting. ---

Instructor: At this point, you're almost ready to tackle
your first project.
There are just a couple of items left to cover.
That's why in this lesson you're going to learn
how to get input from the person executing the script
and how to create an account on a Linux system.
As usual, I'm going to start up a terminal
on my local system, go into our class folder,
from there into the project folder that we're working on
and we already have created the VM,
so I'm just going to run Vagrant up
to bring up that virtual machine.
Now we'll connect to it
and we'll move into the shared folder of /vagrant.
This script, I'm going to call luser demo04.sh.
So I'll go ahead and start my editor
and I will start out with a shebang like we should
with every script we write.
Now I'm gonna set the goal here
or intention for this script.
So as you can see on your screen, the goal here
is to create an account on the local system
and whoever runs the script will be prompted
for the account name and password.
So the first thing we want to do is ask for the user's name.
So I'm just gonna create a comment here
and leave that as a stub for us to go back and fill in
in just a minute.
Then what we wanna do is ask for the real name
of the person who is going to be using this account
that is going to be created.
From there, we wanna get the password.
The next step would be to actually create the user
and then once we create a user, we need to set a password
for that user using the password that was collected earlier.
And finally, what we want to do is force that user
to change their password the first time they log in.
Up until this point, we've been working with scripts
that can execute on their own without any external input
or interaction with a person executing the script.
Sometimes you're going to need information from the user
in order for the script to do any meaningful work.
In this specific example, you're going to ask the person
who's running the script to supply a username and password
for the account so that the script can go ahead
and create that account.
One way to get input from a user is by using
the read shell builtin command
which is what we're going to use in this script.
Another way to get input from a user
is to have them supply information on the command line
as arguments to your script and you'll be learning
about that method later on in the course.
But for now, let's look at the read built-in.
So as you already know, you can use the type command
to tell if a command is a shell builtin
or if it's an actual file on the file system.
If we do type read, it says if you just execute read
then you'll get the read shell builtin.
Again, if you wanna see all the options here
you can do -a and the first option
which is what's gonna happen when you type in a command
is run the shell builtin.
Otherwise, you can use the path to a file
that's on your system and user bin read.
So what we wanna look at here is the shell builtin.
So we're gonna use the help builtin actually to get help
on the read builtin.
And I'm going to pipe this into less
because I know there'll be a good bit of output
that probably comes on the screen.
You can tell what this command does
by reading the first line of description.
It says, read a line from the standard input
and split it into fields.
Now let's talk about input for a moment.
There are actually three default types of input and output.
They are standard input, standard output and standard error.
By default, standard input comes from the keyboard
and standard output and standard error
are displayed to the screen.
And I'm using my words here carefully.
I'm saying by default because as you're going to learn here
in a few minutes, that standard input
does not always have to come from the keyboard
but typically that's where standard input comes from.
It also goes on to talk about that the line
will be split into fields and so on.
It also says that any leftover words
are assigned to the last name.
And if you look at the end here you see name
and these three periods or three dots or ellipses here
that says you can specify multiple names.
And what happens is each one of those
will assign the value to a variable.
So if you want to assign an entire line of input
to one variable, just supply one name
or one variable name here at the end of the line.
So that's what we are going to be using in this script.
Also, in our case we want to display some text asking
the user to supply us with some standard input
from their keyboard.
So if we go down here in the help,
you'll see a -p option and a prompt.
So we can use -p followed by a string
which will act as a prompt.
Okay, I'm gonna get out of this help here by hitting Q
and let's do an example at the prompt.
We'll use the read builtin with the dash -p option,
which stands for prompt.
Then we're going to specify a string
that will act as that prompt.
Here I'm going to put a space at the end of this string
so that when the user starts typing,
they're not typing right at the end of that colon there,
there's gonna be a space.
So now we want to store what they type into a variable
and we'll just call this variable thing, T-H-I-N-G
and hit Enter.
So the read builtin executes,
it displays the prompt of type something
and now I'm going to provide some standard input
using my keyboard and I'm literally going to type something
and hit Enter.
Now the value that I typed in there
should be stored in the variable thing.
So let's check it out, echo THING.
And sure enough, something comes back.
Let's do this again.
We'll just do the same command again
and then type something else.
So I'm gonna type Fred.
So now we'll echo THING, and sure enough
Fred is returned because Fred is the value
that's stored in the variable named THING.
So this is how you can use the read builtin
and we're gonna do this in our script.
Okay, we're gonna take the user input that we get
and assign it to the variable called USER_NAME.
Okay, we'll just use this same technique
for the real name of the user
and we're going to assign this input
to the variable of comment.
Okay, one last read statement here.
We're going to store this standard input
into the password variable.
At this point in the script
we've gathered all the information
from the person executing the script
in order to be able to create an account.
So let's go back to the command line here
and look at the useradd command
which we're going to use to actually create an account.
If you look at the synopsis here
on the man page for the useradd command
it says useradd followed by options which are in brackets
which as you know are optional.
And then it has a login at the end of the command
so that is required because it's not in brackets.
Let's talk about logins.
Now the word login and username are the same thing.
Here in the documentation obviously
they're using the term login.
When I talk to you or when I'm writing scripts,
I'll use usernames typically.
In either case, logins or usernames
have some rules around them.
Now, typically they are eight characters
or less by convention.
Now that's not a hard or fast rule
but that's typically a convention
or a practice that is followed.
By the way, this is something that you could check
in your script if you wanted to
or you can just display a warning
if the username is over eight characters
and we'll get to testing for string sizes
in a future lesson.
But that's just something to keep
in the back of your mind for now.
So you might be asking,
well why is there this eight character convention?
The answer is that it's based on history
that used to be the maximum length back in old Unix systems
and of course Linux was modeled
after a lot of the Unix practices
and so we started using eight character usernames
and a lot of commands such as ps and so on
only display eight characters of username.
So let's jump to the shell, create a username
that has more than eight characters and see what happens.
In order to add users to a system,
you need to use super user privileges,
and one way we can do that is with the sudo commands,
we'll do sudo useradd.
We're going to leave off all those optional options
and then create a long username.
For example, I'm going to use dougstamper and hit Enter.
So now we can switch to this user.
Again, if we can use root privileges
we won't have to specify a password
so we'll use su space - dougstamper and hit Enter.
By the way, the dash option to the su command
tells su to start with an environment similar to that
of a real login and also you can use su -l
to get the same experience
but either way, su - or su -l
will start a login shell if you will.
So now we're logged in here as dougstamper user.
We can see our prompt has changed to dougstamper.
So now what I'm gonna do is look at the process table
with the ps command, ps -ef to show every process.
And then you can see here at the bottom
that the two commands that are in the process table bash
and ps -ef are by the dougstamper username
but you can only see the first eight characters
and when the username is longer than that in that field
you'll see a plus sign after it.
So again, it's not something that's going to break anything
if you have a nine character, a 10 character
or a 20 character username,
it's just something to be aware of
that some of these commands such as ps
are going to give you a little bit different output
because historically usernames are limited
to eight characters.
So that's just something I wanted to point out here
just in this conversation about creating scripts
to create usernames.
I'm going to exit out of Doug's shell here
and get back to the Vagrant user.
By the way, usernames are case sensitive
so lowercase Doug is not the same user
as capital D, lowercase O-U-G.
Again, you can do that.
You can use uppercase letters,
but by convention they're in all lowercase.
So it's a good practice to make sure
your usernames are in all lowercase.
Another thing to know is that you can't include
any special characters in your username,
however, you can use numbers.
For example, if you're creating accounts using last names
and you have several people at your company
that have the last name of Smith,
then you could do Smith1, Smith2, Smith99, and so on
and those are all valid usernames.
Let's get back to the man page
and I wanna point out one more thing to you here.
There's an option to the useradd command, which is -c
that allows for a comment
and that comment can be any string.
Now, generally it's a short description of the login
and historically it's been used for a person's name.
So if we make Smith1 account and it's for Jane Smith
then we would put Jane Smith in the comment
so we know what person is associated with that account.
If the account is not for a person,
then you can put in the application
that's going to use the account for example.
Another thing I've seen done
is when the account gets created,
you put the name of the user in the comment field
along with a help desk ticket number
and that can help for auditing purposes.
For example, when you create Jane's account
and it has help desk ticket 1, 2, 3,
you can go back and look at help desk ticket 1, 2, 3,
and said, oh Jason was a Linux administrator
that created that account.
And then you can see,
oh, Jane's manager approved that account,
and then you can see who initiated that request
from the help desk.
So you have full accountability and a full chain
of what happened and where that account came from.
Okay, I know I said there was only one more thing
I wanted to show you, but it turns out
there was another thing I wanted to show you here
and I just thought of it.
It's -m option or --create-home.
By the way, when you see that in the man page
two options here, one a short form -m
and another a long form --create-home,
they both do the same thing
and you only need to specify one or the other.
For speed a lot of times people use the shorthand name.
If you wanna be super clear
you can use the long form name, the --
but we're just gonna stick to -m here
when we use this to create our accounts.
The -m option here, as it says
creates the user's home directory
if it does not exist.
It also goes on to say that the files
and directories contained in the skeleton directory
will be copied into the home directory.
Traditionally, that's etc skel, S-K-E-L
but also here it says you can override that default
with the -k option.
Continuing on it says,
by default, if this option is not specified
and CREATE_HOME is not enabled,
no home directories are created.
So where's it getting this CREATE_HOME information from?
Well, if you look into the configuration section
of the man page, you're gonna find out, let's do that now.
Do a forward slash for a forward search,
type in what I'm looking for and hit Enter
and here we are at that section of the man page.
It says the following configuration variables
in etc login.devs changed the behavior of this tool.
And so that is the CREATE_HOME variable
that we were talking about with the -m option.
So actually let's hit Q to get out of the man page
and actually look at that file cat etc login.devs
and hit Enter.
And as you can see there, three quarters away up the top
of your screen CREATE_HOME is set to yes.
So if we were to not specify the -m option
the home directory would get created
because that is the default behavior.
Something just to keep in mind and consider
when you're writing shell scripts
is that these default configurations may vary
among different systems.
So if you want to ensure, for example
a user home directory gets created then use the -m flag
and then you don't have to depend
on this external configuration file.
If you're in a controlled environment where you're sure all
the etc login.deskfiles are the same,
then you can optionally leave that off.
But if you want to be safe
and force the creation of the home directory,
use of the -m flag, and that's what I recommend.
Okay, let's get back to our script and use what we learned
about the useradd command to actually create a user.
So we'll use useradd -c for a comment,
-: m to force the creation of a home directory,
and then give it the username or login
as it says in the man page.
By the way, you may have noticed
that I put the comment variable in quotes.
The reason I did that is because this comment variable
may contain spaces.
When we prompt them to enter the name of the person
that the account is for,
typically people have first and last names
if not more names.
So someone will type in Jane space Smith
and that will be the information that is stored
in that one comment variable.
But again, there's a space.
Now it's important to point out here
by putting something in quotes
it gets treated as a single argument or a single item
and not separate arguments or separate items.
Okay, the next thing we need to do is set the password
for the user, and the command for that is P-A-S-S-W-D.
Now, let's get to the shell here
and get some information about this command.
By default the password command spelled P-A-S-S-W-D
will prompt you to enter a new password for your account.
To change a password for another account
you have to specify that account,
of course only root can change other people's passwords.
So let's just try the command out here on the command line
for our current user.
Type in P-A-S-S-W-D and it prompts us
for our current password.
And then if we were to complete this process
then we could enter in a new password
and our password would be changed.
I'm just gonna hit Enter here and let it fail.
So we need to come up with some sort of method
to get around this interactive prompt.
So let's dig into the man page and see if there's a way
to supply the password non-interactively
or in some programmatically or automated fashion.
So man passwd and I'm gonna scroll down here,
-: k for keep.
I don't think we need that.
We're not looking to lock an account
which is -l or --lock.
Here we go --stdin.
This option is used to indicate that passwd
should read the new password from standard input,
which can be a pipe.
So remember earlier that I said
by default standard input comes from a keyboard.
Well, standard input can also come from another command
when it's used in what's called a pipeline.
When you use a pipe symbol on a command line
it means take the standard output
from the preceding command, the command that goes
before the pipe and pass it as the standard input
to the following command
or the command that comes after the pipe.
If the first command displays error messages
those will not be passed to the second command.
Those error messages are called standard error output.
You'll learn how to control standard error output later
in the course.
So we'll use this --stdin option to set the password.
We also wanna force the user to change their password
the first time they log in.
To do that, we'll use the -e option.
As you can read the description here
it says this is a quick way to expire a password
for an account.
The user will be forced to change the password
during the next login attempt
which is exactly what we want to do.
Okay, let's hit Q to get out of the man page
and let's get back to editing our file.
You already know how to use echo to create output
so we'll use echo to output the provided password
and then use that output as standard input
to the passwd command.
So we'll echo the password, use a pipe
which again takes the output of the proceeding command,
which is echo, takes that output
and makes it the standard input for the following command
which is passwd.
And as we learn by reading the man page
we can use the --stdin option
to take standard input as the password.
And so now all we have to do is tell the password command
what user that this password belongs to.
Finally, we need to force the user to change their password
at force login.
Again, as we learned in the man page
we can use the -e option
so passwd -e for expire, user name
and then we're good to go.
Okay, let's exit out of our shell script here,
save our changes, and let's try it out, see if it works.
Because this is the first time
I'm going to be executing this script.
I need to make sure it has the execute bit set on it
so I'm gonna use the chmod command, chmod.
We can use +x, for example, luser demo04.sh.
That will work.
You can also use the numeric notation of chmod755.
I'll just use this for variety to show you
another way to use the chmod command.
Because we're adding a user with this script,
we need to run this script with root privileges.
So we'll use sudo luser demo04.sh and hit Enter.
We've been talking about this person named Jane Smith
so let's give her an account.
We'll call it jsmith and hit Enter.
The name of the person is Jane Smith, hit Enter.
And the password for the account we'll use jsmith123.
I know that's not very secure
but we're gonna go with it for now.
The output you see on your screen
is from the passwd command,
which says changing the password for user jsmith
and then also expiring the password for jsmith.
Now let's switch to the user and use their password.
So we'll do su space - to act as a login shell
and then the username jsmith.
And this should prompt us for a password
because we're not using root privileges
or sudo because root can do anything.
They can switch to any account without a password
but since this is the normal Vagrant user,
it's going to ask for the account password
of this jsmith account because it doesn't know
or doesn't trust this Vagrant user.
Okay, let's see if our password works, jsmith123,
hit Enter and sure enough we get prompted
to change our password, so let's change it from jsmith123
to something more interesting.
Okay, obviously I chose a poor password.
Let me try something that is more secure.
Okay, I've changed my account the first time I've logged in
so now the person that created account
won't know their new password to the password
that they're actually be using going forward.
And as you can look at the prompt
we have successfully changed to this account.
Just type exit to log out of the jsmith account
and get back to our Vagrant account.
Let's quickly recap some
of the things we talked about during this lesson.
First off, you learned about the read shell builtin command,
which reads one line of standard input and stores it
into a variable.
From there, we looked at the useradd command and you learned
that the -c option allows you to specify a comment
for the account you're creating.
Typically, this comment will be the user's real name
or other relevant information about the account.
You also learned that the -m option forces the creation
of a home directory when creating an account.
Next, you learned how to programmatically supply a password
to the password command
by piping the output of echo into the password command
using the --stdin option.
Finally, you learn how to force a password reset
for an account by using password with a -e option
followed by a username.
At this point, you've learned all the concepts
and techniques you'll need to create a script
that adds users to a Linux system.
Next up, you get to write that script.

--- Exercise 2 - Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Exercise 2 - Walkthrough ---

Instructor: Welcome to the exercise walkthrough.
This is where you'll get a chance
to look over my shoulder, if you will,
and see how I approach this particular exercise.
The first thing I wanna do, however,
is just set the stage, give you a little bit
of background information about a situation
where you might use this in the real world.
Let's say that you're a Linux System Administrator
for a growing fast-paced company.
You have a lot of projects and deadlines
that you're working on and working toward,
but you keep getting interrupted
by the help desk to create new user accounts.
You decide that your only hope
for getting a couple of hours uninterrupted
that will give you some time to work
on these projects and meet your deadlines
is to actually automate and offload
this account creation process to some other group.
So you decide to go ahead and create a shell script,
test it on your local system,
and then upload that shell script
to where it can be used by staff
of the help desk, for example.
In that way, they don't have to call you
and email and interrupt you
and you can focus on more high-level work.
So once you've decided that you're going
to write this script, you sit down
and think about what should be in the script,
what it's gotta do, how it should work,
if there are any checks you need to perform and so on.
And so you just scribbled down a little list
and here's what you've come up with.
You decided to name the script add-local-user.sh.
You also decide that you wanna make sure
that whoever is executing the script does so
with root or superuser privileges
so that the account creation process can work.
And if they don't do that,
if they don't run it as root
or run it with sudo, for example,
then you wanna make sure
to quit the script and exit out.
And you also wanna follow standard command conventions
and shell script conventions
by exiting with a non-zero exit status
if the script doesn't fully complete properly.
So then you think about the next scenario
where they actually do execute the script
with the proper privileges.
What information do you need
from the person that is running the script
in order to create an account?
And of course, you need at least a username.
You'll also want the full name of the person
that will be using the account
or who the help desk is creating the account for.
And then you'll probably want
to request an initial password
so you can set that on the account.
So the next thing that the script will do obviously
is to take all that information
and to create a local Linux account.
From your experience as a Linux System Administrator,
you know that from time to time,
the command that will add a user
to a system will fail for various reasons.
One reason might be that the person executing
the command would supply a username
that is already in use
and then the useradd command will fail.
So you want to account for those situations
and you don't want to tell whoever's running
the script that a user was created
when, in fact, the user was not created.
So you wanna make sure that the useradd command
in your script executes properly.
And if for some reason, it doesn't,
you wanna stop the execution of your script
and just tell the person running the script
that the account was not able to be created.
Now, at that time, they will probably
escalate it to you or your team
and you'll have to go in and figure out
why it didn't execute properly.
And you don't expect the help desk staff to do that,
but you wanna make sure to not tell them
that a user was created when, in fact, it wasn't.
If, on the other hand,
the user was created successfully,
you wanna display the username, the password,
and the host where the account was created on.
This way, the person that's creating the account
or running the script can take that information
and deliver it to the end user
who will actually use the account that was created.
So the user will know what their username is,
what their password is, and on what system that
that account exists on.
By the way, in the lessons leading up to this exercise,
we didn't explicitly cover how to determine
the host name of the machine that you're on.
I've left that up to you.
So you can get used to referring to the Bash man page
and looking for the information that you need,
getting help and so on.
You'll use the exact same concepts
that we've used explicitly in the previous lessons,
for example, how to look up a user ID and so forth.
But I didn't give you the exact answer
because again, I wanted you to get that practice
so you can do it on your own.
In this way, if you ever encounter something
that you're not 100% sure about,
you have the practice of going about
how to find that information.
So at this point, you know
that you're going to create a script,
you know what the script's gonna do,
how it's gonna work, and so now,
what you wanna do is test it on your local machine
before you turn it over
and let other people use it.
So the first thing you wanna do
is start a command prompt
or terminal on your local machine.
Then we're going to move into the class folder.
From here, we're going to initialize
a Vagrant project called local users.
If you've been following along in the earlier lessons,
you'll already have this folder
so you don't have to do the mkdir command.
But if that directory doesn't exist,
go ahead and create it.
Now, move into that folder
and initialize your Vagrant project.
We wanna give some indication
of what machine we're logged into.
So let's go ahead and set a host name for this machine
and we can do that by editing the Vagrant file.
Do that with a config.vm.hostname equals
and I'm going to set this to localusers
and then write and quit.
Save my changes here.
Now, we're ready to bring up
the VM and connect to it.
So we'll run vagrant up to start the VM.
Okay, now that the virtual machine is up,
let's connect to it with vagrant ssh.
So now, let's move into the shared Vagrant folder
which is mounted inside the virtual machine at /vagrant.
So here, you have a choice,
either to develop and write your script
inside the virtual machine or to develop
and write your script on your local machine
but save it into the shared folder.
Again, I'm a big fan of VM,
so I'm just going to create the script
right inside the virtual machine.
We already know that you decided
to name it add-local-user.sh.
So we'll go ahead and use that file name.
I'm sure you know by now that every single script
we're gonna write starts with a shebang.
And then now, we're going to put a header
at this file to give anyone who looks at it
an idea of what it does.
So this script creates a user on the local system
and we're going to tell them
what we're gonna ask them for.
We're gonna ask them for the username.
It's also called the login, the person's name
that will be used in the account,
and a password for that account.
And finally, the main thing that this script does
is display that information.
(keyboard typing)
If you think back to the shell script requirements
that we came up with,
we wanted to make sure that the script
was being executed with superuser privileges.
So let's check for that first off.
There's no need to prompt them
for a username or password
if we're not gonna be able to use it anyway.
So let's just do that right
at the top of the script.
(keyboard typing)
We will use an IF statement.
We're going to check the UID that is set by Bash.
It's a shell variable
that gets set anytime Bash has started
and this variable UID is read-only
so it can't be changed, so we can trust it.
Another thing we know is that
the root account always has a UID of zero.
So we can test against the UID of zero.
So if the UID is not equal to zero
which means they're not executing
with superuser privileges,
then what we want to do is give them a message.
So we'll use this chance to teach them
how to use the script.
And then we want to follow convention
and exit with a non-zero exit status.
Since we're not doing anything specific
with these exit statuses, we'll just use one.
Finish up our IF statement here
and that is our check for superuser privileges.
Now, if they have executed the script
with the proper privileges,
now we need to start collecting some information
and we know how to do that
by using the read shell built-in.
So let's build that right now.
(keyboard typing)
We'll give them a prompt which -p stands for prompt
and we'll follow that
with enter the username to create.
We're going to use a space
so that when they start typing,
it's not mushed up against their colon there.
We're going to assign what they type into a variable.
And we're gonna call this variable USER_NAME.
Now, by the way, when you're writing this script,
you could have chosen any other name for your variable.
You might have said login here.
You might have said account name.
You might have named it dog or cat
which doesn't make any sense,
but it's valid syntax.
So in theory, that's okay.
So before I go any further,
I do wanna point out here that this is one way
to implement this shell script.
And there are multiple ways
and that's one of the things that I love
about Linux and shell scripting specifically,
is that there are multiple ways to do things
and it allows for some creativity and individuality
while still being able to do useful work
and allowing other people to read your code.
So just know if you used a different prompt
or different variable name,
that is totally acceptable.
The main thing is, does your shell script
deliver on the requirements?
For example, this script, does it exit
when it's not executed with super user privileges?
If it does, then you did it right.
And if it doesn't, then you need to adjust your code.
Okay, enough of the aside.
Let's keep going on here.
So now, we have the username.
The next bit of information that we wanna collect
from the person running the script is their real name.
(keyboard typing)
And actually, this is just going to be
the contents for the description field
or comment field in the password file.
So this may or may not actually be a real name.
For example, if someone is creating
an account for an application,
this might be the application name.
So we're gonna go ahead
and account for that in our script
because we're thinking of it now.
Now, if you just said real name or person name,
that's totally fine as well.
(keyboard typing)
We're going to call this COMMENT.
And now, the last bit of information
we need to get is the password.
(keyboard typing)
Again, we'll use the read built-in
with a -p to prompt the user.
(keyboard typing)
And we're going to assign this
to the PASSWORD variable.
Now that we have all the information we need,
we can go ahead and create the account.
(keyboard typing)
Okay, we'll use the useradd command.
And the useradd command requires root privileges.
That's why we did the check
at the beginning of the script.
So what we wanna do here is use the -c option
and supply the comment or the name
or whatever that was given to us
and that is stored in the COMMENT variable.
And we enclose that in quotes so that
even if there will be spaces in this comment,
it's all treated as the comment.
So Jane space Smith
will all go into the comment field
and it will not be interpreted as two different things,
Jane being one thing and Smith being another.
Now, we want to ensure the home directory gets created.
So we can use the -m flag.
And then finally, we need to specify
the account name, the login name,
or the username as I like to call it
at the end of the useradd command here.
So we talked about this earlier,
we wanna make sure that this command succeeds
and how we can do that is to check
the exit status of the useradd command.
So let's write a brief comment about it
and then implement that check.
(keyboard typing)
We don't wanna tell the user
that an account was created when it wasn't.
(keyboard typing)
Okay, we will start off
our IF statement, double brackets.
We'll make sure to use a space.
And then we know that the exit status
of the most previously executed command
is stored in dollar sign question mark.
And so again, as convention holds,
if it's an exit status of zero,
that means everything went well, the command succeeded.
And if it's not zero,
then something went wrong.
So if the exit status is not equal to zero,
that's what the -ne stands for.
Then we're going to display an error message.
(keyboard typing)
And then we're going to exit our script
with a non-zero exit status.
(keyboard typing)
Now, assuming that we get past
the IF statement in the script,
that means the useradd command succeeded.
Now, what we wanna do
is set the password for the account.
We're going to echo the password.
And then we're going to pipe that output
as the input to the passwd command
P-A-S-S-W-D with a --stdin option
and we're going to supply the username.
If we wanna be really safe,
we can also check to see
if the password command succeeded
and if the password was properly set on the account.
Again, if something goes wrong here,
then the account is not fully completed.
So we'll want to exit with a non-zero exit status.
So again, we'll check for dollar question mark.
If it doesn't equal zero,
then display an error message.
(keyboard typing)
And then exit with an exit status of one
and finish our IF statement.
Finally, what we want to do is force
the password change on first login.
(keyboard typing)
And we can do that with a password command
with a -e option and give it the username
that we're operating against.
So at this point, you could even do another check
to make sure that this execution
of the password command succeeded.
While I'm looking at my script here,
I notice that I did something that will probably work,
but is not a best practice.
Back in my previous IF statement here,
I forgot to enclose this variable in quotes
and I wanna make sure I do that.
So let me go ahead and add that back in.
So now, we've set our password.
We've forced the password
to be changed on first login.
And so now, what we want to do
is display this information
to the person running the script
so that they can then hand it off
to the user that will be using the account.
So we're gonna give them the username, the password,
and the host where the user was created.
Now, I know the password command generates some output
and I wanna separate this output from that output.
So I'm gonna use the echo statement on its own
without any options or without any arguments.
The echo statement displays
what is passed to it and a new line.
So if you don't pass anything to echo,
it's ultimately going to print a blank line.
And so that's what we'll use it for here.
Now, let's display the username
and we'll display this on the next line.
Let's add another blank line
and we'll tell them the password.
And finally, we want to tell them the host.
So at this point, if you don't know
how to get the host name,
what you can do is look at the Bash man page
and let's do that really quickly now.
Save my changes, type man bash.
So let's perform a search
and see if we can find anything
about a host name and the Bash man page.
And to perform a search, we'll use a forward slash
which is a forward search.
We'll type host name and press Enter.
And sure enough, we come to something
that is in all uppercase letters.
And as we know by convention,
something in all uppercase letters
can be a variable name.
So this variable says that it's automatically set
to the name of the current host.
So if we scroll back up here, we can make sure
that this is indeed in the variable section
and we'll keep going up here.
And sure enough, it's in the Shell Variables.
So we can hit Q to exit out of here.
Let's look at the value of it.
Okay, it's set to local users
which is the name of our system
that we're currently on.
You can see our username vagrant@localusers.
So let's get back into our shell script
and add that last bit of information.
(keyboard typing)
So if we get to this point,
the script is really complete
and it's completed successfully.
So by convention, we need to exit
with a zero exit status.
So we can do that with this.
Now, let's save our script and start testing it.
The first time we execute this script,
we wanna make sure that it has executable permissions.
(keyboard typing)
Okay, let's go ahead and add a user
with the script that we created.
(keyboard typing)
Let's create a username of einstein.
The real name will be Albert Einstein
and the password will set
to something like E=mc2theory
and end it with a dollar sign.
Okay, we get some output from the password command
and then we get the output that we displayed
at the bottom here, the username, the password,
and the host that it was created on.
So it looks like the script functioned normally.
We can check the exit status
with echo dollar question mark.
Sure enough, we have a zero exit status.
So that all looks good.
Now, let's look at the etc password file
to see if the user was created.
You can use the cat /etc/passwd command
or even the tail /etc/passwd command
which will just print the bottom of the file.
So you can see, the last line
of the file here is the Einstein user
and that the comment is included in the account line
and everything looks good there.
To really test if the account was created properly,
let's go ahead and switch to that user.
So we'll use su for switch user,
space dash to get the user's login environment,
space einstein which is the username.
And now, it's prompting us for the password,
which we can enter now.
Sure enough, it accepted the password
that we supplied when we executed our script.
And now, it looks like it's forcing us
to change the password which is exactly
what we wanted to happen.
So let's go ahead and retype in the current password
and let's go ahead and give it a new password,
something like, let's say crazy hair,
and end it with an exclamation point.
Okay, now that we've proven
that the script works for creating accounts,
let's see what happens when we execute the script
without the proper privileges.
So I'll just type in exit
to get back to our Vagrant account.
So let's do this ./add-local-user.sh.
Sure enough, it exits the script.
Doesn't ask us for the account name
or the password or any of that.
Doesn't attempt to create the account
which is exactly what we want to happen.
It gives us a status message here
that teaches the user how to actually use the script
which is really good.
Now, we wanna check the exit status.
Let's see it here.
Echo, dollar sign, question mark, and press Enter.
Sure enough, it's a non-zero exit status.
So our script fits all of our requirements
and it works exactly as expected.
Again, I just wanna say that
if you didn't come up with the exact script
that I did line by line,
that is okay as long as these tests pass
because that means that your script works
and that's all that really matters.
Okay, I hope you enjoyed writing this script.
And now, we're going to move on
and learn some more about shell scripting.

--- Random Data, Cryptographic Hash Functions, Text and String Manipulation. ---

Jason: In the previous exercise,
you wrote a script that prompted the user
to provide a password for the account
that was being created.
In this lesson, you're going to learn a few different ways
to generate some random data,
including how to automate the process
of generating a random password.
This way you'll be able to improve your script
by requiring less input from the user.
And in my opinion, the more you can automate, the better.
I have a terminal opened up on my local system
and I'm going to move into the class folder.
We're going to continue working on the local user's system,
so I'll just change directory into there.
Now we'll start the virtual machine and log into it.
Now we can connect to it
and move into the vagrant folder into cd/vagrant.
Now I'm going to create a script called luser-demo05.sh.
Of course we always start out our scripts with shebang.
And then we're going to put a header to our file here,
just a short sentence or two about the goal for this script.
And so what this script does
is it generates a list of random passwords.
Now before we do any real coding,
let's look at the bash man page to see if it provides
any way for us to get some random data.
So let me save my changes here and we'll do man bash
and we'll just look for random.
Since random is in all capital letters
and by convention variables are in all capital letters,
I can probably assume that random
is a bash built-in variable, and it is.
And you can confirm that if you were to just go up
the man page here until the header
and you'll see that it is indeed
in the variable section of the man page.
But I'm gonna scroll back down here
and just read what this random variable is about.
It says each time this parameter is referenced,
a random integer between zero and 32,767 is generated.
So let's get back to the command line here by
pressing Q to exit out of the man page
and just echo dollar random and see what happens.
Echo $ RANDOM and there's a random number 4308.
Let's see what happens if we access it again
and we get different numbers each time
we echo the random variable to the screen here.
So that's a pretty simple way to get some random data.
Let's get back into our script here.
So the first password we'll generate
will just be a random number as a password.
So we'll set the PASSWORD variable equal to $ RANDOM
and then we'll just echo that to the screen.
Save my changes and exit.
Of course, this is the first time
I'm going to be executing this script,
so I'm going to set the permissions on it,
chmod 755 luser-demo05.sh,
and then go ahead and execute it.
So if we keep executing it,
you can see we just get a different random number.
Just because I'm lazy,
I'm going to do something here that's a bit of a shortcut.
I'm gonna do !v to execute the most recent command
that started with a v.
And this is called an event designator.
And I go through this in my "Command Line Kung Fu" book,
but it's a quick way to execute a previous command
that starts with a given string.
So instead of me having to retype out the
whole vim space luser-demo05.sh,
and I'm going to be executing this a lot, coming,
executing the script and then going back
and editing and so on and so forth,
I'm just going to use this shortcut.
So if I do !v or bang V and hit Enter,
we'll be back into editing our script.
So just using $ RANDOM might be good enough,
especially if the user is forced to
change their password on login.
And if you're concerned about security,
perhaps you would like a fairly long password.
So let's do something like use two
or three random numbers altogether.
So we'll reassign our password variable to RANDOM
and just do this three times here,
and we'll display that password to the screen.
Okay, I'm gonna execute ./luser-demo05
and I'm gonna use my shortcut here, exclamation mark dot.
When you perform this shortcut,
it actually displays what it executes and then executes it.
I'm just going to hit the up arrow since I'm already here.
So here you can see that we're getting some random data.
The first password is just one random number.
The second password that we're generating here
are three random numbers together,
and as you can see there are varying lengths and whatever.
So this also could be good enough,
but we can do something better.
If you think about it,
something that is always changing is time.
It's never the same time ever again.
It's now and then now was a second ago
and now is also a second ago and so on.
So that is some data that is always changing.
So let's use the current date and time
as the basis for a password to generate.
So let's go ahead and look at the date command
and some of its options.
So obviously the date prints
or sets the system date and time.
The synopsis here is date followed by optional option,
and the ellipses there
says that you can have multiple options.
And then also in brackets, which means it's optional,
is a format plus followed by some sort of format.
So let's check out the different formats
that are available to us
and I'll just do a forward search
with a /FORMAT and press Enter,
hit End to go to the next match,
End to go the next match and so on.
So here it says FORMAT controls the output
and each one of these looks like
they begin with a percent sign.
For example, %a is the abbreviated weekday name,
%A is the full weekday name, and so on and so forth.
I want to point out %s.
Keep going here.
And %s is seconds since 1970-01-01,
January 1st, 1970 at zero hours UTC.
This particular date is called the Epoch,
and some people actually call this Epoch time or Unix time.
This Unix time, and it's also called POSIX time, by the way,
or Epoch time is simply the number of seconds
that have elapsed since January 1st, 1970.
So I'll hit q here to exit out of the man page
and let's just see what that looks like.
We'll do date plus that says,
hey we're going to use a format.
We'll use %s and hit Enter.
And so that is the number of seconds
since January 1st, 1970.
And we do it again and again,
So 14 seconds, 15 seconds, 18, 19, 20,
whoops, 21, and so on.
So this number just continually increments
every single second.
So we could actually use this as a password.
Let's get back to editing our file here.
I'm gonna use my shortcut bang V.
So we'll set the PASSWORD equal to date.
And remember that the dollar sign opening parentheses
and then a command followed by the closing parentheses,
that takes the output of that command within the parentheses
and assigns it to the variable.
So the password variable is going to contain the value
of whatever that date command returns.
And then we'll just echo this to the screen.
Okay, I'm going to execute this script again.
And here we can see that it, you know,
increments by one number each time,
one second each time we run it,
or in this case a couple a seconds,
but because I've been talking for a couple of seconds.
In theory, this password could be guessed.
For example, the more you know
about the password generation technique,
the easier the passwords are to crack.
So if you know what day a password was generated on
and you know that there are only 86,400 seconds in a day,
that means there are only 86,400 possible passwords.
Now you can further infer some more information
and guess that the password was probably generated
during normal business hours,
so that leaves about an eight hour window,
now you're down to about 28, 29,000 possible passwords.
Now I'm getting a little bit off track here,
but you get the idea.
So let's find a way to make this even harder to guess.
Let's get back to the man page for date.
And I know the last command that I executed
that started with an m was man date,
so I can do !m and hit Enter.
So I want to point out this nanoseconds format.
When you use this format,
it prints the nanosecond that the date command was executed.
So there's about nine digits there,
so that leaves us a lot more data to guess.
So it'd be really hard to guess those nanoseconds
because each time you run the date command,
I mean it has to be the exact of the nanosecond,
and that provides us a lot more variation.
So if we actually combine that with the Epoch time,
then we can get a long number.
So let's do this.
Let's run the date command.
We'll say we're going to use a format.
We want the second since the Epoch,
and then we also want the nanoseconds
and we'll hit N here like this and press Enter.
So now when we execute this,
maybe the first portion of the password
that represents %s is only incrementing by one digit,
but the last few digits there pretty much look random
because they're based on the nanoseconds
of when the date command was executed.
So let's go ahead and use this as a possible password.
Assign the date command to the PASSWORD variable
and then echo the PASSWORD.
Okay, let's execute the script a couple of times
and so you can see that it looks fairly random,
so that's a better password
than the just the second since Epoch.
Let's take this one step further by using checksums
or cryptographic hash functions.
A checksum is a numeric value computed for a block of data
that is relatively unique.
Checksums were and are used to verify
the integrity of data such as files.
For example, if you download a file
and you wanna make sure that it's not corrupt in some way,
you find the published checksums for the file
and compare it to the file you downloaded.
Let's take CentOS for example.
They publish sha1sums and sha256sums
for their downloads.
By the way, I didn't include the CentOS ISO
that I'm about to use in the course download
because it's about 700 megabytes
at the time of this recording.
So if you wanna follow along with this specific section,
you're going to have to download the ISO separately
and then look at the checksums published by CentOS
at the time you download the ISO file.
Anyway, here are the contents of the sha1sum text file
published by CentOS.
So for each file that they publish,
they produce a sha1sum that corresponds to that file.
So the first file up there,
the CentOS-7 DVD-1611.iso corresponds to
the c018577 et cetera, sha1sum.
So we can use the sha1sum command on our side
to run the sha1 mathematical algorithm
against this file to return its checksum or sha1sum value.
So I've downloaded the Minimal ISO,
so I'm going to run sha1sum on the CentOS-7 Minimal ISO here
and hit Enter.
So more or less, this number represents all the data
in that single file.
If it matches what is published,
then you're virtually guaranteed
that the data is exactly the same.
So in this case, we have a known good copy of the CentOS ISO
because it's sha1sum matches the published sha1sum.
I'll highlight that here.
Here's the sha1sum of our local file,
and here is the published sha1sum provided by CentOS
that is supposed to correspond to that file.
And so as you can see,
it begins with 71 and ends with 4f
and ours begins with 71 and also ends with 4f,
so we have the same file.
They also publish sha256sum.
So let's use the sha256sum command against that ISO
and hit Enter.
Okay, it generated the sha256sum for that file
and we can compare it to what's published.
So let's look at the sha256sum file
that I downloaded from CentOS.
Okay, this checks out as well.
It should because the other sum checked out,
but we're just experimenting here.
So we have a sha256sum that begins with 27
and ends with 86a.
And sure enough, the Minimal ISO corresponds
begins with 27 and ends with 86a.
Let's change the file just ever so slightly
and see if the sums still match.
So I'm just going to add one character
to the end of the file.
And one way to do that is just simply
do something like echo a 1 to the end of this file
and hit Enter.
So now we've changed the file just a bit.
So I'm gonna back up here
and execute my sha256sum command again and see what happens.
Now it doesn't match.
The sum we received begins with da and ends with a1 here.
And obviously this is a big long string in the middle,
but if we compare that to the known good checksum,
it doesn't match.
So even a very slight change of data
completely changes this checksum that's returned.
By the way, there are other hash functions
in checksum programs.
So we can do a quick ls and usr/bin.
So we'll just do ls dash L usr/bin.
For any programs that end in sum,
we'll use a wild card of asterisk and end in sum
and hit Enter.
So you have cksum, md5sum, sha1sum, sha224, so on.
So all these programs do pretty much the same thing.
They take a big chunk of data
and reduce it down to a single number
or a string that represents that chunk of data
to verify if it's the same or not.
Okay, now let's bring this back to password generation.
As you might have noticed,
the checksums are actually hexadecimals numbers
with zero through nine,
representing, well zero through nine,
and A through F, representing the values from 10 to 16.
If we were to use a sha256sum as a password, for example,
that password would consist of 16 different characters,
that zero through nine and A through F
and be 64 characters in length.
That's a pretty darn good password.
So let's turn the current date and time
into a sha256sum by piping the output of the date command
as the input into the sha256sum command.
So we'll just run the date command by itself
date and we'll use the Epoch here.
And now what I'm going to do is use a pipe symbol,
which takes the output of the proceeding command
and sends it as a standard input
to the following command, sha256sum, and hit Enter.
Okay, so that's the sha256sum of the output
of the date command at the time it was executed.
So obviously when you execute this,
you're going to get a different value
because when you're watching this video,
it's going to be far past when I recorded it,
so obviously you're going to be getting different data here.
So how does this work or why does this work?
So we were running sha256sum against files.
Well, let's look at the man page real quick.
So in the synopsis there we have an optional OPTION
as well as an optional FILE.
And it says with no FILE or when FILE is a dash,
read standard input.
So remember with a pipe,
pipe turns the output of the previous command
as standard input in the command that follows the pipe.
So that is how this works.
And by the way, most commands work like this.
If they take a file as an argument,
you can also not use the file and instead use standard input
via a pipe and it will operate on that input.
So I'll hit q to exit out of the man page here.
Since our goal here is to really generate
a seemingly random set of characters as a password,
we really don't care if the shasum remains intact or not.
We're not gonna be using that check checksum
to check it against another piece of data,
we just want its output.
So if we wanna control the size of this generated password,
you'll need to control
the number of characters returned or displayed.
One way to do this is with the head command.
And just to briefly recap,
how can you tell if head is a program on the system
or if it's a shell built in?
Well, of course you can use the type,
built in type -a head.
Sure enough, head is usr/bin/head, which is a program.
So we can't use help head.
What we have to do is use man head.
Just a quick reminder there.
So what head does is outputs the first part of files
or the head portion of a file.
Without any option,
it just prints the first 10 lines of a file.
You can also see this command,
like the sha256sum command,
it says with no FILE or when FILE is a dash,
read standard input.
So we know we can use this head command
in conjunction with the pipe.
The first option that's listed there is -c,
or --bytes in the long form,
and what that does is prints the first K bytes of each file.
So if we were to do -c1,
then it would just print the first character of the file.
The next option is -n for lines,
and that prints the first number of lines that you specify
instead of the default first 10 lines.
So let's go ahead and try both of these options out.
So let's do head -n1 on /etc/passwd
and what that does is prints the first line of /etc/passwd.
By the way,
you can also do this head -n space 1 /etc/passwd.
So if you see either style,
if you see someone like me
who takes some shortcuts sometimes,
I'll probably squish the value against its options,
so -n1 for example.
But if you see -n space 1, it's the same thing.
So if you see either one, you know it's the same thing.
And by the way, there's an old style
of using this head command.
So let's do this head -1 /etc/passwd.
So instead of using a -n followed by a number,
just use the dash followed by the number.
So here's how to print the first two lines of that file head
-: 2 /etc/passwd and so on.
Obviously that's equivalent of head -n2 /etc/passwd
or head -n space 2 /etc/passwd.
Okay, let's just print the first character
of the password file head -c1 /etc/passwd.
Let's print the first two characters head -c2 /etc/passwd.
So obviously the first line
we can see it starts with the root.
The first character is r, the first two characters are ro.
Now, I'm sure you remember from the man page
how you can use standard input instead of a file
with a head command, so let's try that out.
Let's generate some output from the echo command.
We'll just do echo testing,
and then we will pipe that output
as the standard input into the head command
and let's just print the first two characters, -c2.
So sure enough, it returns te.
Now let's chain the date command,
the sha256sum command and the head command all together.
So you can have multiple pipes, not just one pipe,
but you can keep modifying the output
and keep piping it into different commands.
So we'll execute date, seconds since the Epoch,
we'll get the sha256sum for that,
and we'll print the first eight characters.
So if I hit the up arrow key and do that again,
again, we keep getting a seemingly bit of random data here.
If we wanna make this even better,
we can add those nanoseconds to the mix.
So we can do date+%s%N sha256sum head -c8
and we get even more random data.
Now let's add this method to our script.
So I'll go back and edit the file.
We'll say we'll create a better password.
So we'll use the date command with seconds
and nanosecond sha256sum head -c
and then we'll just say specify
32 character length password here.
And we'll echo this PASSWORD to the screen.
Forgot my opening quote there.
Okay, let's exit to the command line and execute our script.
Okay, so the password at the very bottom here,
the latest thing that we're echoing to the screen
is that 32 character password.
And so each time we execute it,
we get a very different result.
So that looks like a pretty good password to me,
but we can even take this further.
Let's go back and edit our file again.
Let's create an even better password.
One way we can do this
is just add some random numbers to the mix.
So we'll do date plus +%s%N
and we'll follow that by a couple of random numbers here,
and then we'll pipe that into sha256sum.
And then what we're going to do is
let's say we want to make this password
48 characters in length,
so we'll do -c48 and we'll echo that PASSWORD to the screen.
Okay, as you can see, we got a 32 character password
and then a 48 character password here.
So just keep running that,
and we get lots of different passwords
here that we could use.
Now, there are other probably way more secure ways
to generate a password that has nothing to do
with the current date,
but this is really honestly good enough,
especially if you're going to force
a password change on login.
But while we're at it,
let's keep going and add a special character
to the generated password file.
Now let's start out by displaying
the set of special characters that we want to use.
And I'm actually going to store this into a variable
right here in our interactive shell,
so I don't have to keep typing these characters
over and over again.
So I'm just going to use a simple name of capital S.
Now, again, that's not a best practice for shell scripting,
but it's going to work for testing
and we'll use a better,
more descriptive variable name for our script.
But here in the command line
I'm just going to use the variable S
and assign it to the special characters.
Okay, let's echo those characters.
Okay, those are our special characters.
Now we need a way to randomly extract
just one special character from that list.
Now there is a command called shuf, S-H-U-F.
Now let's see if it can do what we want.
So let's look at the man page for this command.
It says write a random permutation of the input lines
to standard output.
So this appears to work on entire lines.
Now of course, if you're unsure what a command does,
well just try it out.
So let's do that here.
Let's run it against the password file, for example,
and see what happens.
Hit q to get outta the man page,
and we'll just do shuf /etc/passwd,
and let's do it a couple of times
to see if we can figure out what it's doing here.
So sure enough, it is definitely printing entire lines.
And if we just look for example,
at the last line here, nfsnobody, rpcuser,
einstein, and so on,
this is definitely displaying random lines
out of the /etc/passwd file.
So we need to break our list of single characters
into individual lines so that we can then use shuf
to do the randomization.
So there happens to be a command called fold
that can do just this.
Let's look at the man page for fold.
So the fold command wraps each input line
to fit in a specified width.
And it looks like there are some different ways
to specify that width.
And by the way,
if we want to change our entire line of special characters
into separate lines,
then we simply need a width of one.
So if we look here, -b says it shows bytes,
-: c counts characters rather than columns,
-: w use width instead of 80.
So it looks like we have a couple of
different options here, -b, -c, or -w that we can use.
It's not really clear here in the man page
what the difference is, so what I like to do is experiment.
So I'm going to use each one of these options
and see if I can spot a difference between them.
So I'll just hit q to get out of the man page
and return to the command line.
So let's echo our string of characters her.
Echo.
Okay, now let's see what fold -b1 does.
Okay, it lists our characters at a width of one.
It looks like our last character here is equal sign,
but it looks like there's an empty line here.
Okay, well let's see what -c1 does.
Same thing.
Let's look at -w1.
Okay, so in my opinion,
it's easier to work with a -w option
because we don't have to account for that blank line
that's being generated.
So now let's pass this output into the shuf command.
So we'll do echo $ S into fold,
and then we will pass that to shuf
and we get a different order of the characters.
Let's keep doing this a couple of times here,
and sure enough, each time we run it,
these characters are displayed in a different order.
Now we're getting a random list of special characters.
If we only want one special character,
we can use the head command with a -c option,
followed by a one.
So let's do that head -c1, and sure enough,
we get a dollar sign that time we executed it.
This time we get a closing parentheses, a pound sign,
a closing parentheses, a carrot symbol, pound sign.
So this appears to be working, doing what we really want,
which is to get a random special character.
Now, I hope you noticed a pattern
in how I worked through this little mini challenge here.
First, I had a goal in mind.
I knew I wanted a random single special character.
Next, I simply displayed what I had.
In this case, I used the echo command
to display the special characters.
Now, if I was working on another problem,
perhaps I would display the contents
of a file or something else.
Next, I changed the output
so that I could work with it easier.
The way you can change the output
is by using that output as the input of another command.
So I pipe the output of the echo command
into the fold command,
and I kept doing this until I reached my goal,
taking the output, piping it in as the input
to another command and keep repeating that.
So it's important to keep in mind the Unix
and Linux philosophy that each program
should only do one thing and that it should do it very well.
So in our case, the echo command only displays output.
It doesn't do any sorting,
it doesn't do any randomization and so on.
It does its one job, and it does it really well.
When you need another job done,
you'll need to use another command.
That's why we use pipe,
so we can string together all these specialized commands
to make the system do exactly what we want.
Some people call this data munging
or string manipulation and so on.
At any rate, I go over a lot of these techniques
in my "Command Line Kung Fu" book,
and it's filled with examples of small specialized commands
all piped together to do something unique and useful.
Anyway, before I get too carried away
about how awesome Linux is and the philosophy and so on,
let's go ahead and add this last way
to generate a password to our script.
We're just going to append a special character
to the password.
So we'll do a SPECIAL_CHARACTER variable name,
which is a lot better than just dollar sign S.
We're going to echo our string of special characters,
pipe that into fold with a width of one column,
shuf to randomize those lines,
and then we're just going to extract
one character from that, the first character.
And now we're going to echo that password
that we generated previously,
and we're going to append this special character to it.
Okay, let's save our changes and execute our script.
Okay, so you can see that this 48 character password
was generated, and then we just displayed that
in addition to a random special character.
So each time we do this,
we'll get a different password
that now includes a special character.
So we have a great password in my opinion,
that you can use,
especially if it's just a one-time password.
So to quickly recap,
in this lesson, you were introduced
to the built-in variable of random,
which generates a random integer
each time that it's referenced.
You also worked with a date command
and used its formatting options to control its output.
From there, we talked about checksums,
and specifically looked at the sha1sum
and sha256sum commands.
You also learned about the head command,
which can display the top or beginning lines
or characters of a file.
Next, you use the fold command to transform
a single line of text into multiple lines.
Finally, you use the shuf command to randomly select a line.

--- Positional Parameters, Arguments, for Loops, Special Parameters ---

Instructor: In this lesson you're going to be introduced
to positional parameters and the for loop.
Here on my local system, I have a terminal open
and I'm going to move into our class working folder,
and from here into our vagrant project folder,
this project being local users.
And then now I'm going to start the virtual machine
and then connect to it.
Now we'll move into the shared folder
of CD forward slash vagrant,
and this script I'm going to name
L user demo oh six dot S-H.
Of course, all scripts we start with the shebang,
so we'll give the path to the Bash interpreter.
And then I'm just going to list the goal of this script
or what this script does at the top here, as our header.
And the first thing we're going to do here is simply display
what the user typed on the command line,
and we can do that with the echo command here.
The variable of dollar zero
is actually a positional parameter,
and positional parameters are variables
that contain the contents of the command line.
Before we go any further,
let's talk about the definition of a parameter
versus an argument.
A parameter is a variable
that is being used inside the shell script.
An argument is the data passed into the shell script.
So an argument supplied on the command line
becomes the value stored in a parameter.
With that in mind,
the very first positional parameter is dollar zero,
which contains the name of the script itself.
You can think of this as being what the person typed
in the command line to execute the script.
The next positional parameter is dollar sign one,
which stores the value of the first argument
passed to the script on the command line.
The positional parameter,
dollar sign two stores the second argument,
dollar sign three stores the third argument, and so on.
So now let's look at the output of our script so far.
Of course, we have to add executable permissions
before we can execute our script.
So we'll do chmod,
and then execute the script.
So notice how dollar sign zero
expanded to how we executed the script,
this dot forward slash and then the script name.
Now let's change how we call the script
by providing the full path to the script.
So we can type forward slash vagrant,
L user demo oh six, and hit enter.
So again,
when the script is called in an explicit way like this,
then that is what is stored in dollar sign zero.
So dollar sign zero appears exactly as we have typed
on the command line here.
We're about to take a slight detour for a moment.
Bear with me here because
this will all tie into positional parameters, but again,
it's going to take several minutes to explain this.
So again, stick with me and be patient with me.
So one thing I've glossed over is the command search path,
which is stored in the environment variable path.
That's P-A-T-H in all uppercase letters.
Up until this point,
we've just been supplying either a full or relative path
to the scripts we've created.
Let's take a quick look at what the Bash man page
has to say about the path variable before we move forward.
Okay, we'll do a forward search with a forward slash,
followed by path.
We'll just keep hitting N until we get to the path variable.
And here it is.
It says that path is a colon separated list of directories
in which the shell looks for commands.
Now if you were to look at the command execution section
that it references here on your screen,
you'll find that every time
you type something in at the command line,
Bash first tries to find a function with that name
and execute it.
Now, we haven't covered functions yet,
but don't worry we will.
So if it doesn't find a function with that name,
it looks for that command and its list of built-in commands.
If it is a shell built-in command, then it executes that.
Now you've been working with several built-in commands,
such as echo, read, type, help, and so on.
Now if the command you typed at the command prompt
or on the command line is not a function
or it's not a built-in,
then Bash searches through the list of directories
defined in the path variable
and executes the first match that it finds.
If no match is found,
then a command not found error message is displayed.
So let's get outta the man page here by typing Q
and let's look at our path, echo dollar path.
So in our particular case here,
if a command is not a function or a shell built-in,
then Bash will look for that command first
and user local bin, then and user bin,
then it will look in user local S bin,
and so on down the list.
It's important to point out that the path can be changed.
So it's not something that is guaranteed
to be the same for every user across every system.
So keep that in mind.
By the way, if you want to control the path,
you can do so in your script
by manipulating the path variable there.
Let's use a neat little command called which
to tell us which command will be executed.
Let's take the head command that we've used before
as an example, which head.
So this tells us that when
we type in head at the command line,
the program located at user bend head will be executed.
The first directory in our path variable
is actually user local bin,
so let's create our own shell script named head,
and place it in there.
We'll need root privileges to do that,
so I'm going to create the file with sudo them user,
local bin head, and then here,
we're just going to create a little shell script,
hello from my head and then we'll go ahead and save it.
We'll add the executable bit to it here.
Now let's see which head will be executed.
So we'll type in which head,
and it says user local bin head will be executed.
Let's use the dash A option to which,
which forces it to print all matching executables
that are in our path.
So there are the two commands named the exact same thing,
both are named head,
but the first one that is found is executed.
So let's go ahead and just execute this command.
Type in head and hit enter.
Sure enough, our version of the head command is executed.
Now if you want to override the default,
then just supply the full path.
So we can do that with user bin head.
Let's say we just want the first line
of the Etsy password file, so we'll execute that.
So this is what we've been doing all along,
which is explicitly defining a path to a command,
or actually, to our scripts.
Let's get rid of the version of our head,
so we'll just use sudo R-M user local bin head.
Here is one little quirk with rapidly adding
and removing programs from your path.
Bash uses a hash table to remember the full path names
of executable files.
It looks up the location to the executable once,
and then remembers it.
If you look at the type head command,
which we'll do here, type head,
it says that head is hashed to user local bin head.
That simply means that Bash will execute that command
at the path without first searching for that command.
So here's the quirk,
Bash thinks that head is still located
at user local bin head,
however we just deleted it just a few seconds ago.
So let's execute the command and see what happens.
So if we type in head and hit enter,
it says user local bin head, no such file or directory.
So if you run into this type of issue,
you can make Bash forget all these hashed locations
by using the hash built-in with hash dash R.
Now if we do type head,
we can see that it searches the path
and it finds the one that really is there, and user bin.
Of course you can read about the hash shell built-in
with the command help hash.
And there you can see the dash R option, that we use,
says to forget all remembered locations.
Now typically, hashing is not a problem
because commands don't usually
just randomly appear and disappear
during the same shell session,
and probably not during the execution of a shell script.
In any case, it's just something to be aware of.
Okay, so I know that was a rather long aside,
but let's bring this back around to positional parameters,
and specifically about dollar sign zero.
First, let's prove that our script
is not in our current path.
We can do that with a which command,
which L user demo oh six.
And sure enough, there is no L user demo oh six in our path
and it lists our path there,
user local bin, user bin, and so on.
Now let's take a copy of our script
and place it into our path
by putting it into user local bin,
and we can do that with sudo CP for copy,
and then provide the path to the directory
we wanna copy it to, and hit enter.
Now our script is in our path so we can execute it
without supplying a path to the script.
Now notice what's stored in dollar sign zero,
it's the full path to the command,
which is user local bin, L user dash demo oh six dot S-H.
Even though we only typed
in L user dash demo oh six dot S-H at the command line,
Bash founded in our path and executed it at that path,
and that's why the path and the file
is stored in dollar sign zero.
So let's review what gets stored in dollar sign zero
in different situations.
So we'll do dot forward slash L user demo oh six,
so dot forward slash is what is executed,
and that's what's in dollar sign zero.
If we're explicit again and provide a full path,
such as a forward slash vagrant, L user demo, oh six,
that will be reported as well.
However, if a command is our path and we execute it,
like so, then it reports the full path to that command.
Okay, before we move on,
let's remove the script out of our path before we continue.
So we'll do sudo R-M user local bin,
L user demo oh six dot S-H.
There's a command called base name
that removes the directory component
and just returns the file name.
So let's read up about that command man base name.
Here at the top of your screen, you can see that base name
strips out the directory and suffix from file names.
So let's see what happens when we execute this.
We'll just hit Q to get out the help page there,
and we'll type base name vagrant,
L user demo oh six dot S-H,
and then it just returns just the file name
without the directory portion of the file.
By the way, base name isn't doing any smart checking
to see if the file exists,
it just strips off the directory portion of a string
that is passed to it.
So we can give base name something
that clearly doesn't exist, but it will still do its job.
So we can do base name forward slash not,
forward slash here, and of course,
it reports here because that's the file name portion
of that path to that file,
even though the file doesn't exist.
And we can prove that with L-S not here.
Sure enough, there's no such file or directory.
The counterpart to the base name command is D-I-R name.
So let's look at the man page for that.
This says that D-I-R name
strips the last component from the file name.
Let's hit Q to exit out of the man page
and execute the command.
So we'll type D-I-R name, vagrant L user demo oh six,
and hit enter, and forward slash vagrant is returned
because that is the directory name
or the directory portion of that full path,
like base name, D-I-R name doesn't do any smart checking.
We can give it a non-existent path
and it will simply return the portion
that looks like the directory.
So we can do this, D-I-R name, this is not here.
Sure enough, it returns this is not
because it looks like the here file
is in the directory forward slash this,
forward slash is, forward slash not,
but of course, that file and directory,
that whole tree doesn't exist,
but D-I-R name doesn't check, it doesn't care,
it just returns the path or the directory of the file.
Again, obviously this works on things that do exist,
but it doesn't matter to the D-I-R name command
or base name command.
Now let's use these two commands in our script.
So what we're going to do is display the path
and file name of the script.
In earlier lessons, you used a dollar sign
followed by a command that was wrapped in parentheses
to assign the output of that command to a variable.
That is called command substitution.
In this case, we are only going to use
the output of each of these commands once,
so we just included them right in the echo command.
Again, what this dollar sign parentheses syntax does,
or this command substitution syntax does,
is return the output of the command.
You can assign the output to a variable
or use that output without assigning it to a variable.
Either way is fine.
Perhaps assigning the output of the commands
to a variable first makes for a bit cleaner code,
but I just wanted to show you that you don't have to use
command substitution and variable assignment only,
you can use it in line as well.
So let's save and execute our script
and see what we get here.
The first line says you executed this command,
which is dollar sign zero dot forward slash,
L user dash demo oh six dot S-H.
You used dot as the path
to the L user dash demo oh six dot S-H script.
So dot was the output of the D-I-R name command
and L user dash demo oh six dot S-H
was the output of the base name command.
So let's try executing this script in another way.
We'll provide the full path, forward slash vagrant,
L user demo oh six dot S-H.
So this time it lists forward slash vagrant as the path,
and then of course, the base name of the script
is L user dash demo oh six dot S-H.
Okay, let's look at the Bash man page real quick.
And we're looking for the special parameters section
of the page here,
and then we'll keep hitting N to continue to our next match,
and then the thing I want to point out here
is the pound sign, and the pound sign it says,
expands to the number of positional parameters in decimal.
So a dollar sign, pound sign tells us
how many arguments were supplied on the command line.
Let's continue with our script here.
I'm gonna use bang V to execute the most recent command
that starts with a V, which is vim,
so I can get back into my editor really quickly here.
So let's tell the user how many arguments they passed in.
Remember that the curly braces are optional,
so some people might actually just use
dollar sign, hash sign.
So just be aware of that
if you're reading other people's scripts,
but I'm going to use the curly braces here to be very clear.
Of course here, you could have simply used the dollar sign,
hash sign directly in the echo command,
similar to what we did with a command substitution
and the previous echo command.
It's really a style choice
and I just wanted you to see how you can do it both ways.
So the first time I didn't use a variable,
this time I used a variable
and then used the value of that variable
in the echo command.
So let's save our changes and then do some testing here.
So we'll just execute our script.
Says you supplied zero arguments on the command line,
so let's just type something in after the command line,
we'll just type hello, and it says
we supplied one argument on the command line,
and we'll type in another word,
you supplied two arguments, and so on.
So this one says you supplied three,
and that is giving us the proper information.
So it looks like dollar sign, hash sign works,
and we're all good there.
So let's continue editing our script.
Because the real goal of this little example shell script
that we're working on is to generate a random password
for each user that's supplied on the command line.
We wanna make sure that at least one user
is supplied on the command line.
So let's do a check with an if statement.
So we'll use if F space, double opening bracket space,
when we use a variable and between brackets here,
we're going to enclose it in quotation marks.
And the variable we're going to look at
is number of parameters,
and then we wanna make sure that that's dash L-T,
which stands for less than one.
So if the number of parameters is less than one,
then what we're going to do is echo a usage statement,
much like you would see in a man page.
Instead of manually typing in the name of the script,
we can just simply use dollar sign zero to echo back,
more or less, what the user typed in at the command line.
And then we'll tell them what they need to do.
They need to supply a username, and optionally,
they can supply another username and actually, optionally,
they can supply even more usernames.
So we'll use the ellipsis there.
Now, if they get to this point,
that means that the script did not successfully execute
because they didn't give us any people
to create passwords for.
So what we're going to do is exit
with the non-zero exit status,
and I'm just going to use one here.
Close our if statement with F-I.
Now by the way, let's look at the first line here again,
if the number of parameters is less than one,
then blah, blah, blah.
So here what I'm actually doing is just demonstrating
something that we haven't used before,
just a slight variation of dash L-T,
and where did I get that from?
Well, hopefully you remember
that you can get help on these tests
by looking at help test at the command line.
Of course, you'll find in there
that dash L-T stands for less than.
Of course what is the only thing that's less than one,
in our particular situation,
working with whole numbers here on the command line,
negative numbers don't make sense
because you can't supply negative arguments
in this sorts of thing.
So obviously the only thing that's less than one is zero.
So you could have said,
if the number of parameters equals zero,
then give them the usage statement and exit.
So again, either way is right,
it's just your personal preference, how you think,
what makes sense to you, it's style.
Again, both ways work,
just whatever comes to mind, just use that.
Again, I'm using this here
so you can see some slight variations
and different ways to do this.
Now let's save our changes
and start passing in varying number of arguments
to our script.
We'll hit enter.
We did not use any arguments on the command line
and we get our usage statement, and if we check
the return code with dollar sign question mark,
or you can actually do this,
dollar sign question mark with the curly braces,
then sure enough we get an exit status
of one from our script
since it didn't successfully execute all the way.
So let's get back to our script
and let's just give it one thing.
Sure enough, you supplied one argument.
Two, let's do A, B, C, D.
Okay, that's four arguments
and I wanna point out something here that we used, actually,
with the user ad command in an earlier script,
which is enclosing things in quotation marks.
So A, B, C, D.
So this says that you supplied
three arguments on the command line,
but maybe at first glance you think that B and C
are two different things, but in reality,
because they're enclosed in quotation marks,
they're treated as one argument.
Let's do this again, let's do this one,
this whole thing is two, and here is three.
So again, in this instance,
we supplied three arguments on the command line.
Another thing you can do is simply enclose
everything in quotation marks, and that's fine as well.
I'm just gonna use single quotation marks
'cause that works too.
We'll do one, this is two, and this is three.
So again, three arguments on the command line,
which interprets to three positional parameters
inside the script.
There are three because they are enclosed in quotes,
so it doesn't split at spaces
when the data passed in is enclosed in quotation marks.
Now again, the idea behind this script
is that we're going to perform the same action
over a list of items.
Now this is the perfect time to use a for loop.
Let's take a second and look at the for shell built-in.
The type dash A command says for is a shell keyword,
so that's a shell built-in,
and so what we can do is get help for for.
I know there's going to be
a good bit of information that pipes out to the screen,
so I'm just gonna pipe this to the head command
to get just the first 10 lines of output.
Okay, the first line of the help says,
for name and words do commands done.
The name you see in the help here
is actually a variable name.
For each item in the list of words,
the variable name is set to that item.
Then the commands are executed and the process is repeated
for each item in the list.
Let's create a loop right here at the command prompt.
We'll do for X.
X is the name or our variable name and,
and we're going to provide a list.
We'll do this, Frank, Claire, and Doug.
The next thing we want to do is type in do, hit enter,
and then it's stylistically appropriate to indent,
so I'll just put a couple of spaces here,
echo, type hi, and then refer to the variable name here,
dollar sign X, and hit enter,
and close our for loop with done.
In this example, X is first assigned to Frank.
Then the command of echo gets executed,
using that variable dollar sign X.
Then the next time the loop repeats,
Claire is assigned to X, the commands execute,
and finally Doug is assigned to X and the commands execute.
If I hit the up arrow here to pull up the command,
you can see the semicolons,
which represent the command separators.
So if you want to,
you can place this command all on one line,
but it's easier to read if you do not do that.
Again, it's valid syntax here,
like you see at the help for on your screen,
but again, it's just easier to read
if you put these on multiple lines.
You wanna hit enter again, do execute that again.
If you look near the top of your screen,
and the help output for the for keyword,
it says, if N words is not present,
then dollar sign at sign is assumed.
So let's find out what dollar sign at sign is
by looking at the Bash man page.
I'm going to look for the special parameters here
in the man page.
Here is the section.
Now let's start with the at sign special parameter.
It expands to the positional parameters, starting from one.
When the expansion occurs within double quotes,
each parameter expands to a separate word.
That is dollar at sign is equivalent to dollar sign one,
dollar sign two, and so on.
Now this is nearly the same as dollar sign asterisk.
It also expands to the positional parameter,
starting from one.
However, if it's enclosed in double quotes,
it expands to a single word.
We don't want to treat all the parameters as a single word,
what we want is a list of words,
as they were supplied on the command line.
That's why we're going to use dollar sign, at sign,
and not dollar sign asterisk in our script.
By the way, the use of dollar sign asterisk
and dollar sign at sign are often confused.
Okay, let's get out of the man page here with Q
and get back to editing our script.
So we're going to use a for loop.
We'll do for, we'll supply a variable name,
we'll call these usernames, user underscore name,
and we'll use quotations here, dollar sign, at sign, do.
So we're going to use the command we use
to generate passwords and the previous script.
So we'll do that with password equals,
we'll use command substitution with dollar sign,
followed by an opening parentheses.
And then we're going to display that username and password.
Now obviously, we can't know exactly
how many positional parameters
a user will attempt to supply at the command line.
We can check for 'em,
but we just don't know in advance.
So instead of, you know,
generating a password for dollar sign one, dollar sign two,
dollar sign three, and so on,
even though they may only supply two arguments, for example,
then what we're going to do is use dollar sign at sign.
So no matter how many arguments they pass into the script,
it is covered by dollar sign at sign,
so we don't have to guess what the user is going to do.
They can supply one, two, three, or 10, or more,
and this script is going to work just fine.
We'll just supply one thing on the command line
to see what happens.
So sure enough, the for loop executed one time
generated a password and displayed it for the user.
Let's add another user on the command line.
Let's add some more actually.
So by using the for loop
in conjunction with dollar sign at sign,
and we were able to account for everything
passed in on the command line.
Just for demonstration purposes,
I wanna show you what the difference is
between dollar sign at sign and dollar sign asterisk.
So let's just go back into our script and make that change.
So here I'm going to change the at sign to an asterisk,
save our changes, and then execute our script again.
So as you can see,
it treated everything on the command line as one argument.
So the for loop only ran one time
and generated a password for that one argument.
Again, that's the difference between dollar sign asterisk
and dollar sign at sign.
Let's go back and fix our script here
and change this asterisk to the at symbol here,
save our changes, and check our script,
and sure enough, it runs like we want it to.
Let's take just a minute to recap this lesson.
And by the way, we covered a lot here.
First, you learned about positional parameters
and how dollar sign zero expands
to the name of the shell script and dollar sign one expands
to the first argument supplied on the command line.
Dollar sign two expands to the second argument, and so on.
You also learned
a few different special positional parameters
such as dollar sign, pound sign,
which represents the number of parameters,
dollar sign asterisk,
which expands to the list of positional parameters,
starting at dollar sign one, and dollar sign at sign,
which also expands to the list of positional parameters,
starting at dollar sign one.
However, the difference between dollar sign asterisk
and dollar sign at sign
is only noticed when enclosing them in quotation marks.
That difference is that dollar sign asterisk
treats all the positional parameters as one string
and dollar sign at sign treats them as separate words.
We also took a slight detour in the middle of the lesson
to talk about how the path shell variable
is used to store a list of colon separated directories
that make up the command search path.
You also saw how the path variable
can affect what commands get executed, and why that is.
Along the way you were introduced to the which command,
as well as the base name and D-I-R name commands.
Finally, you learned how to create a for loop,
both at the command line as well as in a script.

--- The while Loop, Infinite Loops, Shifting, Sleeping ---

Instructor: In this lesson we'll continue exploring
positional parameters and you'll also learn
how to create a while loop.
Of course, as always, I'm going to start a terminal
on my system and move into the folder
for the class and then move
into the folder for the project that I'm working on
and then start the virtual machine
and when it comes up, we'll connect to it.
Now that we're connected to our virtual machine, we'll move
into the shared folder of forward slash vagrant
and this script, I'm going to name luser-demo07.sh.
Of course, we're going to start out
our script with the shebang
and give it a path to the bash interpreter.
I'm also going to provide a little header here,
demonstrate the use of shift, the shift command,
and while loops.
In a previous lesson, you learned that the first positional
parameter of dollar sign zero contains the name
of the script itself
while dollar sign one stores the value of the first argument
passed to the script on the command line,
dollar sign two stores the second argument and so on.
We never actually use dollar sign one,
dollar sign two directly in that lesson.
So let's do that now so you get a chance to see
how that works and how they behave in different situations.
So let's just display the first three parameters.
We'll use an echo statement here and I'm just going to copy
and paste here.
I'm going to add an echo statement here, which is just
going to print a blank line.
Now I'm going to save the changes of this script
And then exit.
Since this is the first time I am executing this script,
I need to make sure that it has the proper permissions.
Now I'm just going to execute the script
without any arguments.
So there are no arguments
and that means there are no values to store
inside the script as positional parameters.
So of course, parameter one, two and three are blank.
Let's pass in one parameter and see what happens.
We'll just call it with an argument of apple.
So now dollar sign one is assigned the value
of apple and that gets printed.
So let's do this again with bread gets assigned
to dollar sign two and let's say candy.
So now dollar sign one is apple dollar sign, two is bread,
dollar sign three is candy
and we can directly access those and use those
in the script by using dollar sign one and so on.
If we were to add more command line arguments,
for example, another word here, let's say dumplings,
then that is stored in dollar sign four,
but we didn't account for a user entering dollar sign four
so that presents a challenge
and so that's why we're going to use things like for loops
and while loops to handle command line arguments
in many cases.
Next, in our script we want to loop
through all the positional parameters
and the previous lesson we used a for loop to do that,
but this time let's use a while loop.
So let's look at the while command.
What type is it?
Well, it's a shell keyword or a shell built in.
So that means we can use help against that command,
help while and hit enter to get some information about it.
Now it says, while commands do commands done,
this executes commands as long as the final command
in the while commands has an exit status of zero.
You can think of this as being while true do,
while the condition that is being tested for is true,
then the commands will execute.
This means that during the while loop,
you'll want to change the thing being tested for in some way
so that the condition eventually evaluates
to false or you'll end up in an infinite loop.
Let's create a while loop here at the command line.
Let's use a variable called X.
We'll assign that the value of one we'll use while.
We're going to use our double brackets
just like we did in the for loop,
now we're going to use a conditional expression.
We're going to test if dollar sign X is equal to one.
If that is true,
then what we're going to do is echo this is the value
of X and then simply echo the value of X.
Now we're just going to manipulate the variable X
in some way.
We will just change it to seven here and then type done.
And so what happens is
while and that conditional expression X equals one.
If that's true and it is,
then it executes the code block between do and done.
So it echoes what you see
on your screen and then X is changed to seven.
Now the while loop executes again
so it says now, "Is X equal to one?"
Well, it is now false because X is seven
so it doesn't execute the commands below
and the while loop exits.
This loop isn't really practical,
but it demonstrates changing a variable that is being tested
against in the conditional expression of the while loop.
By the way,
if the conditional expression never evaluates to true,
then the commands in the while loop will never get executed.
For example, right now, the value of X7.
So we can do echo dollar sign X.
Sure enough, it's seven
and if we execute the while loop again,
I'll just back up here a couple of commands and hit enter.
Nothing happens because X -eq1 evaluates to false.
When you're learning about the wild loop
and doing some experiments on your own,
you're going to end up creating an infinite loop
at some point it's just going to happen.
So let's do it on purpose
and show how easy it is to break out of it.
Before we do that,
I want to introduce you to the true command.
It's only job is to return an exit status of zero.
So, what type of command is true?
It is a built-in as well as a program.
Of course, we can get help on a built-in by using help.
True, and it says it just returns a successful result,
the exit statuses that it always succeeds.
Now I happen to like the description
of the executable better.
So let's look at the man page for user man true.
So we'll just do man true
and it says do nothing successfully.
I just love that definition.
So in any case, no matter what happens with true,
it just returns an exit status of zero.
So we can test this, we'll just type the true command
and then we can look at echo dollar sign question mark.
Sure enough, it returns zero.
If we do true blah, it doesn't really matter 'cause again,
it just always returns zero.
Before we create our infinite loop here,
let's look at just one more command called sleep.
Sleep happens to be an executable program on the system.
It's not a shell built-in.
So we'll use the man page to learn more about sleep.
So sleep simply delays execution
for a specified amount of time.
You can use sleep followed by a number and a suffix,
and that suffix can be S for seconds, M for minutes,
H for hours or D four days.
So sleep does what it sounds like.
It just sleeps.
It doesn't do anything for a specific amount of time.
So I'll hit Q to get outta the man page here
and then just do sleep for one second.
Nothing happens and you return to the command line.
Of course, that is the same as sleep one S
and you can even do half a second or portions of a second.
So let's do this sleep for just a half a second
and hit enter.
Now let's build our infinite loop so we can do while
and we'll test for true, true always returns zero,
an exit status of zero.
So it's always true.
So this is going to never change.
This while loop is going to run forever.
So we'll just do while true do.
Then what we're going to do is just simply echo
a random number.
And now we're going to sleep
for one second and then we'll close
out our while loop here with the syntax of done.
Now when we hit enter, echo gets executed,
it executes and displays a random number, sleep rests
for a second, if you will, and then the loop repeats
because while true always evaluates to true.
So this will just go on forever.
Now to break out of this loop,
all you have to do is hold down the control key and type C.
So control C sends an interrupt signal to the command
which makes it stop.
Now this isn't something unique to the while command.
You can use this to stop any command running
in the foreground.
For example, if you execute sleep and want to interrupt it
and return to the command line sooner,
you can use control C there as well.
So let's say we give sleep the instruction to sleep
for 10 minutes
and then we decide we don't wanna wait that long.
So we'll just go ahead and type control C
and it breaks out of the command.
Here on the screen you can see the care at C that shows
that indeed these commands were interrupted with control C.
There's one more small piece of the puzzle left to cover
before we use a while loop
in our script to loop over all the positional parameters.
This last piece of the puzzle is the shift built in.
So we'll do type dash a shift.
It's a shell built-in.
Let's get some help on this here.
It says it renames the positional parameters
of N+1, N+2, $1, $2, and so on.
Now what the shift command really does is
that it removes positional parameters from the list
starting with dollar sign one.
It just chops off dollar sign one.
So when you execute the shift command, the value stored
in dollar sign one is removed, it's just gone.
What also happens is that the value stored
in dollar sign two shifts down to dollar sign one,
dollar sign three replaces the value in dollar sign two,
four replaces the value in three and so on and so forth.
Also, the special parameter of dollar sign,
pound sign is reduced by one.
Now as you remember, dollar sign, pound sign
contains the number of arguments that were supplied
on the command line.
By default, shift shifts everything one place.
Executing shift by itself is the same thing
as executing shift space one.
If you wanna shift everything by two places, use shift two.
In that case, dollar sign, pound sign will be
decreased by two.
If you wanna shift everything by three positions,
use shift three and so on.
Now, if this sounds confusing, don't worry, it's actually
harder to explain than it is to demonstrate.
So when you see it being used in a script,
it will make total sense.
So let's do that right now.
Let's use shift in our script.
So we'll loop through all the positional parameters.
We'll use a while loop, double brackets here.
Again, make sure there are spaces in between while
and a double brackets and a space after the double brackets.
We're going to test
for dollar sign, pound sign here the number of parameters
and we'll say if it's greater than zero,
that means if there are any arguments on the command line,
then this will evaluate to true.
And at that point,
what we want to do is echo the number of parameters
is dollar sign, pound sign.
And then we'll echo the first parameter here.
And we're just going to repeat this
a couple more times here.
So we will echo dollar sign two and a dollar sign three.
Then we'll echo a blank line.
And then what we're going to do is use
the shift the built-in command.
So just like we said,
shift is actually going to modify dollar sign, pound sign
because when it's executed, it removes one parameter
from the beginning dollar sign one is gone,
it shifts everything down.
So, that means at that point the number
of positional parameters has changed and dollar sign,
pound sign has changed to reflect that.
So we are modifying the condition
that we are testing for through this loop.
So we shouldn't end up in an infinite loop here.
Of course, I'm going to end this
with done, save my changes and then execute this script.
So if we execute this script without any arguments,
then there are no positional parameters to loop through.
So that's why we only get the top portion
of the script displaying some output, but we don't get any
of the commands in the while loop being executed.
Now let's supply just one argument here
that caused the while loop to execute one time.
So dollar sign one is assigned to apple, then shift occurs
and so that removes dollar sign one
and shifts everything down.
Well, there's nothing left to shift down.
So dollar sign, pound sign evaluates to zero.
So zero greater than zero is false.
So the while loop stops executing because it's false.
So let's go ahead and add another argument
on the command line and see what happens.
So we'll add bread.
So the first time the loop gets executed,
dollar sign one contains apple, dollar sign two contains
bread, the shift command is executed, apple goes away,
the original dollar sign one goes away,
gets lopped off the beginning of the list there.
Bread, which is stored
in dollar sign two then becomes dollar sign one
and there are no positional parameters two and three.
So let's keep doing this
and you can clearly see what's gonna happen.
We'll do candy at the outset of the script.
Dollar sign one is apple dollar sign, two is bread,
dollar sign three is candy.
The first time the while loop is executed
and shift gets executed, the number of parameters
it gets decreased by one.
So then there are only two parameters, bread and candy,
bread being dollar sign one, candy being two.
While loop gets executed again, bread gets chopped
off the beginning there and you're only left with candy
which then becomes dollar sign one.
The shift command is executed again,
candy goes away and there are no more positional parameters.
So zero greater than zero is false and the while loop exits.
So let's do this again with one more argument.
So as you can clearly see, every time we go
through the while loop and the shift command is executed,
everything shifts down by one.
So the while loop executes four times and then exits.
It might not be obvious when you would want
to use the shift command
beyond our while loop that we've demonstrated here.
So here are a couple of thoughts to keep in mind.
One time shift comes
in handy is when you want to have a user supply information
is arguments to your script and there is one argument
or piece of data that can contain multiple words.
For instance, data you would want to use
in the comment field when creating a user.
In this case, you would tell the user to supply a username
which would be dollar sign one.
Then you would shift
and then what is left over becomes the comments field
dollar sign one, two, and three, and so on.
Now that's one example.
Also think about processing command line arguments.
For example, something like this dash, a dash dash verbose.
So just keep these ideas in mind and we'll be coming back
to them in future lessons and exercises.
To quickly recap, in this lesson
you used to positional parameters
starting with dollar sign one explicitly.
You reviewed the special variable
of dollar sign, pound sign.
You are also introduced
to the true sleep and shift commands.
Finally, you put all this new information together
in order to create a while loop.

--- Exercise 3 - Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Exercise 3 - Walkthrough ---

Instructor: Welcome to the exercise walkthrough.
Now the goal of this particular exercise
is to create a shell script
that adds users to the same Linux system
as that shell script was executed on.
This exercise actually builds upon the previous exercise,
it's gonna be very similar,
we're just going to really make a few improvements.
And by the way,
that first script you created in our scenario
has been used by the help desk team to create accounts
and they're really happy about it.
But after using it for a little while
they have some requests,
they would like you to make some changes to it
when you get a chance,
and of course, you're so nice that you're going to oblige.
One of the requests they have
is that they're kinda tired of coming up with passwords
every time they create account,
and they think you could automate that for them,
just generate a password for the account
so that they don't have to do that.
Another thing that they found
when using that particular script
was that they already knew all the information
that they were going to provide the script.
However, they would have to wait to be prompted
in order to type in that information,
and they thought it would be
just a little bit more efficient
if they could just type everything right in
at the command line all at once,
and not wait to be prompted.
So again, you go back to thinking about the requirements,
what the script should do.
And a lotta these requirements
are going to be exactly the same
as you had in the first exercise.
The first thing that's a little bit different
is that you're going to name the script something else
just to distinguish it from the previous script,
so that they know they're running the new script
and not the old script,
so you decide to call this script add-new-local-user.sh.
Like your previous script, it's going to enforce
that it be executed with super user or root privileges.
And if the script is not executed
with super user privileges,
it will not attempt to create a user,
and simply return an exit status of one.
Here's something you decide to add to the script
that wasn't requested by the help desk team,
but you can see how this would be helpful.
And that thing is to provide a usage statement
much like you would find in a man page,
if the user executing the script
does not supply an account name on the command line.
And if they do that, you teach them how to use the script,
this script, again, is a little different than the last one,
so maybe they're used to getting prompted,
but this script requires them to have a username.
So you're going to tell them about that.
And when you tell them about that,
you're also going to exit your script with a status of one.
Now speaking of supplying things on the command line,
you decide that the first argument
provided on the command line
should be the username for the account.
And any additional remaining arguments on the command line
will be treated as the comment for the account.
And that's pretty smart,
because the account is always going to be
one word or one item,
and the description could be nothing,
or it could be a name, like Jane Smith.
Or it could be a description of an application
for which the account is being created.
The next requirement you've listed
is to generate a password for that new account.
And again, you're not going to prompt for this password,
you're just going to create it inside the script.
Just like in your previous script,
you're going to inform the user
if the account you're trying to create
was not able to be created for some reason.
And in that particular case,
you're going to exit the script with an exit status of one.
Finally, you're going to display the username, the password,
and the host where the account was created,
this is just like in your previous script.
So at this point, let's go ahead
and use the existing virtual machine
we used in the first exercise.
So we'll move into that Vagrant project folder.
Now we just run Vagrant up to start the virtual machine.
Now connect to it with Vagrant SSH.
Once you're connected, you can move into the shared folder
of forward slash Vagrant.
At this point, you can either create the script
inside the virtual machine using your favorite editor,
be it Vim, Nano, or Eemacs,
or you can create the script on your local machine
using your favorite editor there.
But if you do that,
just remember to place your script in the shared folder,
which you'll be able to access here on the virtual machine
in the forward slash Vagrant folder.
I'm going to use the Vim editor
and just create it here on the local machine,
so I'm going to type Vim, add-new-local-user.sh.
Of course, it goes without saying
that every script starts with a shebang.
And then we're just going to provide some information,
a header if you will, for this script.
So here we're just saying
that the script creates a new user on a local machine,
and that the first thing
on the command line after the script has to be a username.
And anything that comes after the username
will be considered a comment for the account.
Next we're going to automatically generate a password.
And finally we're going to display that information.
Perhaps that's a bit verbose for a header,
but you can use this, or your own language,
or even use the usage statement
that we're going to come up with here in just a minute.
So of course, we really don't wanna do anything
unless the user that's executing the script
is doing it with proper permissions,
there's no reason to try to add a user account
when you don't have root permissions.
So, let's check for that first,
and again, this is exactly the same thing you did
in your first script.
So if the user ID is not equal to zero,
then that means the user is not root.
And then we will exit with an exit status of one.
And close out our if statement here.
Now the next thing we want to do
is make sure that they supply at least one argument,
it's required that they give us a username.
So we'll go ahead and check for that next.
So if the number of arguments is less than one,
then, you can do this,
you can give them a usage statement.
And just echo back to them
the command that they just executed.
Tell them that the username is required.
And you're going to put comment in brackets here,
because that's optional.
And there could be more than one comment
or more than one word.
And so, to repeat that,
you just signify that with three dots here,
and then close the echo command.
Now, you don't have to use this exact statement,
you could have come up with something on your own.
You could have written this in paragraph form.
But if you are used to reading man pages
and built-in help with BASH,
you'll see this very same thing, this very same format.
So there's no use in reinventing the wheel here.
We'll just go ahead
and use the same thing that we see everywhere else.
Again, if you come up with something different,
that's totally fine, obviously it works.
You know, this is not going to affect
the execution of the program.
We'll give them some more information here.
And then we will exit with one,
because the script didn't complete.
And now that we're sure that they have provided a username,
we can go ahead and assign that username to a variable.
So I'll just use uppercase USER_NAME.
And assign the value
of whatever is in the first positional parameter
to that variable.
Now, as you already know, our requirements
and the help statement that we just wrote here,
that everything else on the line are considered comments.
Since we've already assigned username
to the value that was stored
in the first positional parameter, dollar sign one there,
we we no longer need dollar sign one.
So what we can do is use the shift command
to shift everything down one,
more or less making dollar sign one drop off
or get chopped off.
And then what is left obviously are the comments.
So that means we can do this,
we can assign the variable comment to everything else.
Now remember, dollar sign @ sign
is every positional parameter
starting at one and beyond.
So this captures everything that's left on the command line,
again, running shift
took the username out of the positional parameters,
and then again, what's left is gonna be the comments.
Now what you wanna do is generate a password.
We'll assign this to the password variable.
Again, you could use any variable name that you would like
that's a valid variable name,
this is just what I happened to come up with.
Now we're going to use command substitution,
starting that with a dollar sign,
and then an open parentheses.
And then here is where you'll put the command
that will generate a password.
In previous lessons,
we went over a few different methods,
and you just simply can pick one, your favorite one,
or the one you think makes most sense, and use it here,
so you don't have to use this exact method
to generate this password either.
I'm going to create a 48-character password,
so this is how I'll do it here.
Now we have all the information we need,
we got the username from the command line,
we also got the comments from the command line.
We didn't ask for a password,
we went ahead and generated on our own.
And so now we're ready to create the account.
The dash C stands for comment
and so we'll supply the comments
to the dash C argument here.
And we're going to put those comments in quotation marks,
so that they are treated as one thing,
one argument to the dash C option.
Now we can use dash M
to force the creation of a home directory.
And now the only thing we have left to supply
is the username.
At this point, what we wanna do
is check to see if the user add command succeeded.
Of course, if it didn't succeed for some reason,
we don't wanna tell the user
that "Hey, we created an account," when we actually didn't.
So we'll want to exit out of our script as well.
So what we can do here is check for the return status.
So if dollar sign question mark,
which contains the exit status or a return status
of the most recently executed command,
if that does not equal zero, then something went wrong.
So then what we'll say is...
The account could be created,
and we're going to exit with a non-zero exit status as well.
Now we need to set the password on the account.
And we'll just echo the password,
into the password command, with a standard in option.
And then we'll supply the username
that that password is for.
So again, the output of the command that precedes the pipe,
that comes before the pipe,
is used as the standard input of the command
that comes after the pipe,
which in this case is password.
And we're telling it to read standard in
with dash dash STDIN.
Let's check to see if the password command
succeeded as well.
We'll just tell the user that the password couldn't be set,
and then exit with one.
The last thing we need to do is to force a password change
on first login for the account.
So we'll do this, force password change.
And now we're just going to display the information.
We'll print out a blank line
because we know those password commands
generate some output,
so we just separate them with a blank line.
And then we'll display the username.
Another blank line.
And we'll display the host name,
which is a built-in variable in BASH.
We've made it to the end here,
obviously the script succeeded,
so we're going to exit with an exit status of zero.
Now it's time to save our changes.
Now remember to set the permissions on the script
before you try to execute it,
so we'll do that now with CHMOD 755, add-new-local-user.sh.
Now let's go ahead and test the script.
Of course, we're creating accounts,
so we need root privileges,
and one way to do that is to use the sudo command,
so we'll use sudo.
And then we'll use dot forward slash
and the name of the script.
By the way, I'm using tab completion here,
I just typed in the first few letters
of the command name there, and then hit Tab,
and I let BASH complete that for me,
so don't think I'm a super fast typer,
I'm just using some shortcuts,
and that's one you probably already know,
but just to be clear here, that's what I'm doing.
So now what we need to do is supply a username.
So we'll create the account name of JLOCKE.
And then what we can do here is provide some comments,
and one common comment, for a user account,
is obviously the user name that will be using it,
the person name.
So we'll use John Locke
that's the person that's going to be using this account.
And we'll hit Enter to go ahead and create this account.
Okay, that appears to have worked.
Let's go ahead and create a couple of other accounts
and then check out those accounts.
So let's do this.
Let's do sdu.
Add local users.
Let's use B. Russell.
Hit Enter.
Great, we get a new password for this account.
Doesn't match the other password.
As a matter of fact, the password that you're going to see
will not match either,
because it's being generated on the fly.
Okay, we'll do one more account here.
We'll make this say an application account,
so those two people are philosopher names,
so we'll pretend that this is going to be
a philosophy application of some sort.
And so we'll just call this philapp.
And then we'll just use Philosophy Application User
as the account description or the comment.
Now we've created three accounts,
so there should be three new entries
in the Etsy password file.
So one way to view the bottom portion of a file
is with the tail command.
The tail command is just more or less
the opposite of the head command,
which you're already familiar with.
So I'm just going to use tail dash three, et C PASSWD.
Sure enough, the first account we created
has the proper username, John Locke as the comment,
the same with the second one.
And the third account we created, the application account,
had three words as the comment,
and all three of those words have ended up
in the Etsy password file.
So it appears that our script is working as planned.
By the way, you may see different account numbers
depending on what accounts are on your system.
For example, your J. Locke user
may have a UID of 1004, or 2000, or some other account,
depending on what you've previously done on the system,
and what other accounts exist and so on.
So don't be alarmed if it's not 100% exactly the same
on your system as what is being displayed here.
Let's go ahead and switch to an account,
and make sure that it's forcing a password change on login.
So I'm actually going to scroll up
to find the password for the J. Locke account.
So the username J. Locke,
and here's this big long password, I'm going to copy it.
And then I'm going to go down here
and switch user to the J. Locke account.
Now it asks me for the password, I'm gonna paste it in.
And it asks me for the current password.
And now it's asking me for a new password,
so it indeed is changing the password on first login,
so let's use something here.
Okay, I'm successfully switched to the J. Locke account.
You can see it's jlocke@localusers, so that looks right.
Forced a password change when we first use the account.
So everything is looking good,
so I'm just going to type in Exit,
to get back to the Vagrant user.
Now we wanna make sure that the script exits
with a non-zero exit status
if the user does not use super user privileges.
So let's just execute this command without using sudo.
And hit Enter,
and it says please run with sudo or as root.
And then so we can check the exit status
with dollar sign question mark.
Obviously you can enclose that question mark
in curly braces, but I'll just show you
that you also don't have to do that,
so I'll just give you some variety here.
So sure enough, one is not zero,
so that is exactly what we're looking for.
And as a matter of fact, one is what we supplied
as the exit code for the exit statement.
Now let's check for the other error condition,
which is, we're executing the script as root
but we didn't give a username.
So let's try that, we'll do sudo.
Add-new-local-user.sh and hit Enter.
And sure enough, it spits out our information here
to teach the user how to use it,
it tells them that they have to supply a username,
or otherwise this script is not going to work.
And again, we'll look at the exit status,
and sure enough, it's one, so,
everything is working as planned.
Alright, I'm done with this script
and I'm actually done for the day,
so I'm going to log out of the Vagrant virtual machine.
And I'm actually going to halt it.

--- Advanced Standard Input, Standard Output, and Standard Error - Part I ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you're going to learn
about the different types of input and output
and how to redirect and control those types
of input and output.
So as always, I have a local terminal up on my machine,
and I'm going to move into our working folder
for this class, and into the project folder.
Next, I'm going to bring up our virtual machine.
Now that the virtual machine is up,
I'm going to connect to it.
From here, I'm going to move into the shared folder
of /vagrant.
The name I'm going to use for our demo script today
is luser-demo08.sh.
I'm going to add the shebang here
and give a path to the bash executable,
and I'll just add a short header to our file.
So far in this course, the only type of input
and output redirection that you've used
has been in the form of a pipe.
You've already written scripts
that redirect the standard output from one command
and send it as standard input into another
by separating those commands with a pipe.
You've used that method to string together several commands
in order to generate a random password, for example.
You also used it to send that random password
to the password command.
Let's take a step back and talk about the different types
of input and output.
First off, there are three types of I/O.
They are standard input, standard output,
and standard error.
By default, standard input comes from the keyboard.
For example, the read command accepts standard input,
and you use the read command to collect information
from a user typing something in at their keyboard.
You also know, however,
that standard input doesn't have to come from a keyboard.
Again, you used pipes to take the output generated
by one command and use that as the standard input
for another command.
Beyond standard input, there is standard output
and standard error.
By default, both standard output
and standard error are displayed to the screen.
Let's start out by redirecting the standard output
of a command into a file, and you can do that
by using the greater than sign.
By the way, you'll often see standard out abbreviated
as STDOUT.
We're going to be using a file several times
throughout this script,
so I'm just going to assign that file name to a variable.
I'm going to call that variable FILE,
and then I'm going to say that that file is going to live
in /tmp, and we'll call the name of that file data.
Let's use a command here that we've already used
in a previous exercise.
We'll use the head command,
-: n1 will output the very first line of a file,
and we'll just look at the first line
of the etc/passwd file, and we'll send the output
of this command, the standard output of this command,
into the FILE.
Now remember, by default,
standard output is displayed to the screen,
but since we are using the greater than symbol
after the command, it is redirecting that output away
from the screen and into the file we specified
after the greater than sign.
So let's see what happens
when we actually execute this script.
So I'm going to save my changes,
make sure that this is executable,
and then execute the script.
As you can see, no output was generated by our script,
and that's pretty much to be expected
because we told the output of the head command
that's in the script to go to a file.
Now, let's look at that file.
Okay, that seems to be the output of head -n1 /etc/passwd,
and we can actually confirm this
by just running the command here on the command line.
And sure enough, that is the output of the command
that's in our script, and that output was not displayed
to the screen, but instead went to the file
where we redirected that output.
To be super clear, this output redirection
is not part of any one command.
It works with all commands.
While we're on the command line, let's try it out with,
let's say, the id command.
So we'll use id -un.
We've used this in a previous project,
and we'll send the standard output to a file
that we'll decide to call id.
Again, this file name could be anything.
So no output goes to the screen, however,
if we look at the contents of the id file
with a cat command, we see the output
that would be generated by that command.
Again, we can do this with any command.
Let's use echo.
And if we cat the uid file, sure enough,
the output of the echo command is in the file
that we redirected that output to.
By the way, file permissions are in play here too,
so if you try to redirect output into a file
where you don't have write permissions,
you're going to get an error.
So let's back up here with our echo command,
and let's try to write this and say /uid and hit Enter,
and sure enough, we get a Permission denied error.
Let's look at the permissions on /.
They're set to 555
or read execute, read execute, read execute,
with the owner of root and the group of root.
Well, we're vagrant, and we're in the group of vagrant,
so we have no write permissions,
so we can't create files there.
We can't do that either through redirection
or using an editor or any other means.
We just simply don't have permissions.
I just wanted to point out
that if you get a Permission denied error
when you're working with redirection, take it at face value.
You don't have permissions there.
Okay, let's jump back into our script.
Okay, now we know that the greater than sign
redirects standard output.
Well, to redirect standard input, use the less than sign.
Again, standard input is often abbreviated STDIN.
Let's use an example with the read command.
We'll do read LINE, do an input redirection,
and then supply a FILE, and we'll just use the same file
that we created with the head command.
Now you've used the read command
to accept standard input from a user.
By using input redirection,
you are now accepting standard input from a file.
The read command reads one line of standard input.
When someone is typing at the keyboard and they hit Enter,
that represents one line of standard input.
Of course, when dealing with files,
a new line character will cause read to stop.
So the variable LINE should contain the first line
of the file.
In this example, there is only one LINE in the file.
Let's prove that by echoing it to the screen.
We'll say that the LINE variable contains the contents
of the LINE variable here, and hit Enter.
Let's save our changes and execute the script.
Stepping through this short script,
we used output redirection to send the first line
of the etc/passwd file into a file named /tmp/data.
That file was then used as standard input
to the read command, which assigned the value
to the LINE variable.
Finally, the LINE variable was displayed
to standard output using the echo command,
and that gives you what you see on your screen here.
Redirecting standard input from a file works
with any command that accepts standard input.
Take the password command as an example.
Let's put some text into a file, and we can do that
with the echo command.
We'll just echo out some information here.
Normally that would be displayed to our screen,
but we're going to use output redirection to put that output
in a file called P-A-S-S-W-O-R-D.
So we'll look at the contents of that file.
Sure enough, it contains the word secret.
Now, let's use that file as standard input
to the password command.
So we need root privileges to do this.
We're going to use sudo password with a standard in option,
and we need to supply a user.
Well, I have the einstein user set up on this system,
so I'm going to use that user,
and then I'm going to redirect in the standard input
that lives in the file password.
So we're going to redirect the contents
of the file named password as standard input
into the P-A-S-S-W-D command.
Okay, it says the passwords were changed
for the user einstein, and I can verify this
by just switching users.
And I'm going to enter S-E-C-R-E-T and hit Enter,
and sure enough, it accepts the password.
So that works.
So the first method you used was with a pipe,
but now you can also use this input redirection
with the less than sign.
And remember, the difference between those methods
is that in a pipe, the standard input comes from the output
of a command, whereas with this less than symbol,
the standard input comes from a file,
so that's the difference.
You use a pipe when you want to take output
from a command as input into another command,
but you can use this redirection
when you wanna redirect the contents
of a file into a command.
It's important to know that using a single greater than sign
to perform a redirection creates a new file
if that file doesn't exist or it overwrites the contents
of that file if it does exist.
So right now, the password file contains the word secret.
If we perform a redirection to that file,
it will get overridden.
So we'll do this, we'll just echo the word new
into the password file.
So now when we look at the contents of that file,
it contains new.
Now let's demonstrate this in our script.
So now we're going to take the first three lines
of the etc/passwd file and send that into this file.
Going to echo a blank line to the screen
and then now show the contents of that file.
Okay, let's save our changes and execute the script.
The first time we performed a redirection to the script,
we took the first line of the etc/passwd file
and put it into a file.
The next time we performed redirection to that file,
we took the first three lines of the etc/passwd file
and wrote it to that file.
So here you can see that the contents
of /tmp/data contains three lines, not four lines.
It didn't append to it, it overwrote the contents
of that file.
So what if you don't want to override a file
but you want to add or append to it?
In that case, you use double greater than symbols.
So let's look at the contents of our password file here
in our current directory.
It contains just one line, and that line says new.
Now let's add another line to the file.
We'll do this, echo "another-line"
and then we'll use two greater than symbols,
and by the way, they can't have a space between them,
they should be together, and we're going to provide the name
of that file that we're going to redirect this output into.
The name of that file is P-A-S-S-W-O-R-D.
So now when we look at the contents of this file,
we should see two lines,
and sure enough, we do, the original contents,
which was new, and then the new contents,
which is another-line.
Let's keep adding to this file
by using one of our password generation techniques.
We'll just take the current date, take the output of that
as input to the sha256sum command,
and then we'll just take the first 10 characters
that that command generates, and then we'll append it
to the P-A-S-S-W-O-R-D file.
Now the file contains that extra data.
Now I think it's pretty darn awesome
how you can combine different types of input
and output redirection all on the same command line.
So here we use pipes and output redirection.
Let's add this as an example
of I/O redirection to our script.
So now we're going to redirect standard out
to a file, appending to that file.
So let's just echo a couple of random numbers in there,
and then we'll just repeat this line.
Oops, I missed a dollar sign in front of this variable.
I'm going to place it there,
and now I'll just add a blank line
and then echo the contents of that FILE.
Let's save our changes and execute the script.
Okay, so originally the contents of /tmp/data was one line.
It was overwritten by three lines,
and then we performed an append output redirection,
and so now that has five lines.
You can see the random numbers that we generated
and appended to the file.
So we've covered redirecting standard input
and standard output.

--- Advanced Standard Input, Standard Output, and Standard Error - Part II ---

Instructor: Before we can cover
redirecting standard error,
we need to talk about file descriptors.
A file descriptor is simply a number
that represents an open file.
For us humans, it's easier for us
to reference files by name,
but it's easier for computers to reference them by number.
By default, every new process starts
with three open file descriptors.
They are file descriptor zero,
which is standard input, file descriptor one,
which is standard output,
and file descriptor two, which is standard error.
You may be thinking, hold on, by default,
standard input comes from my keyboard,
but my keyboard isn't a file,
and by default, standard output
and standard error are displayed to my screen,
but my screen isn't a file either.
On one level, that's true,
but Linux represents practically everything as a file.
Perhaps a more accurate description of a file descriptor
is that it's a way that a program interacts
with files or to other resources that work like files.
These other resources include devices
such as keyboards, terminals, and so on.
This abstraction of treating almost everything
like a file allows you to do some really powerful things
like take the standard output of one command
that would normally be displayed to your screen
and use it as input to another command.
Of course, I'm talking about pipes in this case.
So file descriptors are like pointers
to sources of data or places that data can be written,
things like keyboards, files, screens, and so on.
Okay, back to IO.
So far in this lesson, we've been using the implicit way
of redirecting input and output.
For example, when we redirect standard input
into a command, file descriptor zero is assumed.
Let's look at the contents of a file on our system.
Now let's use that file as standard input,
let's say, to the read command.
So we're going to read into the variable x
the contents of etc centos release.
Now if we echo dollar sign x,
we'll see the contents of that file.
So sure enough, that input redirection worked,
and that's the implicit way to do it.
If you want to be explicit,
specify the file descriptor number
right before the redirection operator.
So the previous redirection is the same thing as this,
read x zero less than sign etc centos release.
And hit Enter.
And if we echo x, sure enough, it does the same thing.
The reason it's the same
is because if you don't supply a file descriptor,
then zero is assumed for standard input.
Notice that there is no space
between the file descriptor zero, in this case,
and the redirection operator,
the less than sign in this case.
This is very, very important.
If you leave a space, then what you thought
was a file descriptor number that you were specifying
ends up being an argument to the command
before the redirection operator.
So quickly, this is wrong.
Read x zero with a space when you intend to do redirection,
and we should see an error.
And sure enough, zero is not a valid identifier.
That is actually coming from the read command.
It thinks we specified read x zero.
And let's give it some bogus data here and then hit Enter.
And sure enough, we get the same situation.
Zero is not a valid identifier.
However, this is correct, read x zero
without a space less than sign etc centos release.
Now if we look at the value of x,
sure enough it's assigned to the contents of that file.
Let's be explicit with standard output redirection.
First, let's do this, echo UID to the file
that's called UID.
Cat the contents of that file.
Sure enough, 1,000, that's our UID, no big deal.
So that was the implicit way.
If no file descriptor is given,
then file descriptor one is assumed
when using the greater than symbol.
The previous command is the exact same thing as this
if we specify a one as a file descriptor
right before the greater than sign.
Hit Enter, and if we look at the contents of that file,
it's the same thing
because those two forms of redirection are the same.
Again, do not use a space when supplying a file descriptor.
Let's see what happens when you do that
with the echo command here.
So we'll do UID and then one and specify a space.
Now this is the wrong way to do this.
I just wanna make that clear.
Now let's use the greater than symbol to the UID file.
So now if we cat the contents of UID,
we see we get 1,000,
which is what the UID variable expands to, and one
because one was treated as an argument to echo.
So if we do this without redirection,
we'll see that that is what is displayed to our screen.
By convention, normal program output is sent
to standard output while error messages
are sent to standard error.
When you're working at the command prompt,
you may not even notice the difference
because again, by default,
they are both displayed to the screen.
Let's make a program generated error.
First, let's get some more information
about the head command.
If we read the synopsis, we see that file is in brackets,
and there's also three periods or an ellipsis after that,
which means we can supply multiple files
to the head command.
And here's what that looks like.
We'll just do head dash n1 to read the first line
of the etc password file,
and we'll also read the first line of the etc host file.
So when we do this, head tells us
which file it's displaying what lines from,
shows the etc password file, the first line from that,
then it shows etc host file and the first line from that.
Now let's use a file that doesn't exist.
So we'll supply something.
We'll name it fake file and hit Enter.
So it says head cannot open
forward slash fake file for reading.
There's no such file of directory.
Even though you can't tell by looking at the output,
there is both standard output
and standard error generated here.
Let's redirect standard output to a file.
Run the same command, the greater than sign.
We'll call this head.out.
Since standard error was not redirected,
it was sent to the screen.
And of course, that error message
is that file cannot be found,
and the normal standard output
is saved into this file, head.out.
Let's redirect standard error.
And the way to do that
is to specify its file descriptor of two.
So we use the same command head dash n1 etc password
etc hosts this file that doesn't exist,
and then specify a file descriptor two without any spaces.
We'll use the greater than sign
and then give a file to redirect this standard error to.
We'll just call this head.err.
So now what comes to our screen is the standard output
while the standard error goes to the file.
So let's look at the file.
Okay, that's where the error message went.
Let's go ahead and get rid of these files real quick,
head.out and head.err.
We can even get real fancy here
and redirect standard output to one file
while redirecting standard error to another.
So let's do this, head dash n1 etc password
etc hosts some file that doesn't exist.
We'll redirect standard output to head.out
and standard error to head.err.
Okay, no output was displayed to the screen.
Let's look at the standard output
'cause it's in this file.
And now we can look at the standard error
because it's saved in this other file.
You can probably see that this could be helpful
in some situations.
If you were just concerned about errors
that were being generated,
well, you could redirect all the error messages
coming from standard error into a file, for example.
By the way, appending output
is probably what you would expect.
Using two greater than signs assume standard out,
but even when you use a specific file descriptor
such as file descriptor two for standard error,
it still appends to the file.
So let's execute our command again here.
What we're going to change
is add another greater than symbol.
So we have two, greater than greater than
and then a path to a file.
So we'll hit Enter, and let's do this again.
We'll hit Enter a couple of other times here,
and then cat the contents of head.err.
And sure enough we have several repetitions
of the error message because we repeated
that file multiple times using append instead of override.
What if you wanna send standard output
and standard error to the same place?
There are a couple of different ways to accomplish this.
I'm going to show you the older syntax first
and then the new syntax right after that.
So again, we'll just use our example command here.
We're going to send the output to head.both
two greater than ampersand one, and hit Enter.
So if I cat head.both
you're going to see the standard output
and the standard error both in that one file.
So why does that work?
Well first off, you understand
that greater than sign head.both
is redirecting standard output to the head.both file.
That's still the same.
A number that comes directly before a redirect operator
is a file descriptor.
So two greater than means redirect standard error.
The new piece is the ampersand symbol.
Normally, with redirection,
a file follows the redirection operator.
However, if you want to use a file descriptor
instead of a file name, use the ampersand symbol.
So instead of redirecting standard error to a file,
it is being redirected to standard input.
If you were to omit the ampersand,
then one would be treated as a file named one.
So the command you see here on your screen,
head dash n1 etc password etc hosts fake file
greater than head.both two greater than ampersand one
sends the standard output of head
to the file named head.both
and appends the standard error to the standard output.
Since standard error is redirected to standard output
and standard output is redirected to head.both,
all output will be written to head.both.
I'd like to point out here
that spacing is important as well.
Do not use the space
after the redirection operator and the ampersand.
Okay, let's get rid of this file head.both.
If that seems a little confusing and hard to follow
or too complicated, no problem, you are not alone.
Since this is a common practice, new syntax was added
to Bash to redirect both standard input and standard output.
That syntax is ampersand greater than
and then a path to a file.
So let's do our same command here, head dash n1
a couple of files that actually exist and one that doesn't.
And then we're going to use this new syntax,
ampersand greater than sign, and there's no spaces there.
And then provide a path to a file.
And that path is going to be
our current directory at head.both.
That's much prettier and probably easier
to understand in my opinion.
And if we look at head.both,
sure enough the standard output
and standard error both end up there.
Again, using double greater than signs appends to the file.
So let's prove that real quick.
We'll just do this adding another greater than sign here.
So it's ampersand greater than greater than.
Hit Enter.
And now if we cat head.both,
we'll see two sections of output
because we've ran the command twice,
and the second time we appended to head.both.
If you think back to when you first started using pipes,
you learned that a pipe takes the standard output
of one command and uses it
as standard input for another command.
This means that standard error doesn't flow
through the pipe.
Let's demonstrate this.
First, let's take a look at the cat man page.
I wanna point out this dash n option
that numbers all output lines.
So if we go back to our head command here
without any redirection,
it looks like it specifies six lines.
Etc password routes a blank line, etc hosts one
that starts with a 127 and then head.
So one, two, three, four, five, six.
However, if we pipe this to cat
and use the dash n option, cat only counts five lines.
You see, first standard error is displayed
to the screen because it was not passed through the pipe
the standard output of the head command was passed
through the pipe as the input to the cat command.
The cat command numbered each file it received
as standard input.
It's important to know that about pipes
that you're only getting the standard output
going through the pipe.
Now this could be exactly the way you want things
to work when you're working with pipes or it might not be.
If you want to force all the output of a command
through the pipe, then you need to append the standard error
to the standard input.
So one way we can do this is specify
a file descriptor of two,
which is for standard error and then redirect that
into ampersand one, which represents file descriptor one,
which in turn represents standard output.
So now that standard error is going to standard output
and all the standard output goes through the pipe,
then cat should count all of our lines.
Let's hit Enter and see if that happens.
Sure enough, it counts all six of our lines.
Now there's a shorthand for this.
It's pipe ampersand.
So instead of supplying all this,
if we supply pipe ampersand,
it combines the standard error and standard output
into one and then passes that through the pipe
so we get the same result.
Okay, we've covered a lot here on the command line.
Let's get back to our script
and really do a mini recap of what we've been talking about,
and let's document it in our script,
so we have something to look back to if we want to later.
So I'm going to edit our file,
and we're just going to be really repeating
some of the examples above,
but this time using file descriptors.
So we'll redirect standard in to a program
using file descriptor zero.
We'll just display this back,
and now what we'll do is redirect standard out
to a file using file descriptor one overriding that file.
So let's do head dash n3 etc password.
We'll be explicit here and use one
and then give the path to the file.
Okay, let's just stop right here and save our changes
and execute our script and see what happens so far.
More or less, we get a repeat of what happens
at the top of the script.
We get line containing the first line of data,
and we get the contents of temp data
containing three lines as well
even though we use the explicit form of redirection
by supplying file descriptors.
So again, it works the exact same way, implicit or explicit.
Let's go ahead and continue editing our script here.
By the way, standard error is abbreviated STDERR.
And standard error is file descriptor two.
So we're going to use this error file a couple of times.
Let's create a new variable, as well as a new file for this,
error file, or ERR file.
Let's give this temp data.err.
We'll give this file something
that's going to generate an error,
a file that doesn't exist.
We'll redirect that error message into the error file.
Okay, let's save our changes, execute our script,
and we get the standard output to our screen.
Let's see what the contents of this temp data.err file are.
Sure enough, that's the error message that was generated
by the head command that we redirected into that file.
So that's doing exactly what we specified.
Let's get back into our script and keep on going here.
Now let's redirect the standard out
and standard error to a file.
We'll use our same head command here,
only this time we're going to use the new syntax,
the ampersand greater than sign, and send that to a file.
And now we'll just display the contents here.
Okay, save our changes and execute our script.
And sure enough, everything is displayed
to our screen there.
So the standard output, as well as standard error
were both combined.
Now let's redirect standard output
and standard error through a pipe.
We'll print a blank line,
and then we'll use our head command here.
We'll use the new syntax, if you will,
the latest syntax of pipe ampersand,
and we'll pipe that to the cat command with the dash n
that's going to number the standard input that cat receives.
So we'll save our changes and execute our script.
And sure enough, the error message of cannot open fake file
gets passed through the pipe to cat and gets numbered.
So we've appended standard error to standard output.
Let's do the opposite, which is to append standard output
to standard error.
So if we take something like the echo command
and just echo the word error, pipe that into cat
with the dash n option, it just shows one line
because one line came through as standard input into cat.
So now let's do the same thing here, echo error,
but this time, let's use the redirect symbol, the ampersand,
which specifies a file descriptor,
and we'll use file descriptor two and pipe that to cat.
Now remember that the ampersand
that follows the redirection operator is used
when you want to use a file descriptor
instead of a file name.
And to be super clear, this is exactly the same
as this one greater than ampersand two.
Now the reason cat didn't put a line number
in front of error is because the output of error never got
to cat because it was redirected to standard error.
So echo error generated standard error.
So we forced echo to really generate standard error.
Now why would you ever want to do this?
Mainly so that you can make your scripts conform
to the standard convention
of sending error messages to standard error.
If you find yourself writing an exit command in a script
and echoing some information just before that,
that's a really good sign that you need to send the output
of those echo commands to standard error.
So let's put a demonstration
of how to send output to standard error.
We'll be using this and a future script of ours.
So we'll do echo, this is standard error,
and then do this, greater than ampersand two.
Write our changes and execute our script.
Now let's execute our script and redirect standard error
to a file that we'll call ERR.
So now if we cat ERR, the standard error generated
by our script is in that file.
Before we wrap up this lesson,
I wanna cover the null device.
The null device is a special file
that throws away whatever is sent to it.
Some people call this the Bitbucket.
So if you don't want to see output on your screen
and you don't wanna save that output to a file either,
then redirect that output to the null device,
which is located at forward slash dev forward slash null.
So here's an example,
head dash n1 etc password etc hosts fake file.
We'll just run this command
to remind ourselves what this does.
Now let's discard the standard output.
So we'll just send the standard output to dev null.
So all's we're left with is standard error.
Now we can do the same thing here
and just throw away the standard error
by doing two greater than
and then the path to the null device.
Okay, now we don't see any error messages.
Now let's throw away all the output generated
by the command.
And we know how to do that
because we can use this ampersand greater than sign
to combine standard output and standard error,
and we'll redirect that to dev null,
so no output is generated.
You might wonder when you would want to do such a thing.
Well, here is the use case.
If you are executing a command in your script
and you don't want the user running the script,
to see that output, then send it to dev null.
And remember, if you need to know
that a command succeeded or not,
simply check its exit status.
You don't need the output to determine
if it succeeded or failed.
So we can do this echo dollar sign question mark,
and we get an exit status of one, which is non-zero.
So something went wrong.
But if we make the command succeed, for example,
take away that file that doesn't exist
and then we check the return status,
we get an exit status zero.
So we know that the command succeeded.
Now let's finish up our little script here
by adding these examples.
Let's discard standard out.
And then let's discard standard error.
So we'll send file descriptor two to dev null.
And finally, we'll just do an example here
of discarding both standard out and standard error.
We'll put a message here too to show that we're doing that.
And one thing I like to do is clean up after myself.
I don't like to leave temporary files just laying around.
So I remember that we created two files
that we are going to remove here.
We'll remove file, and then we also created an error file
that we can remove.
And by the way, this would be a good place
to send to dev null.
So if for some reason the RM command fails,
maybe we really don't care 'cause it's a temporary file,
we can just throw that output away if we want to.
So let's do that as an example in this case.
Okay, we're almost done here.
We'll just exit outta this file
and then execute it and see what happens.
So here's the example where we discarded standard output,
and we're only left with the error message.
We did the reverse by discarding standard error,
so that only left the standard output.
And then finally, we discarded both standard out
and standard error,
and of course, nothing was displayed to the screen.
In this lesson, you learned a lot about input
and output redirection.
You learned that each new process starts
with three open file descriptors.
They are file descriptor zero for standard input,
file descriptor one for standard output,
and file descriptor two for standard error.
You learned that the greater than sign
redirects standard output to a file
and that it creates the file if it doesn't exist
or if that file does exist,
it truncates that file, overriding it.
You learned that you have to use double greater than signs
to append to a file without overriding it.
If no file descriptor is specified for output redirection,
file descriptor one is assumed.
That's why you had to specify the file descriptor two
to redirect standard error.
You learned that you can redirect both standard input
and standard error to a file
by using the ampersand a greater than sign syntax.
If you want to redirect standard input and standard error
through a pipe, use the pipe ampersand syntax.
From there, you moved on to redirecting standard input
from a file into a command by using the less than sign.
Finally, you learned how to use the null device
by redirecting output to dev null.
I know we covered a lot in this lesson.
If this is your first time being exposed
to input and output redirection,
I would actually encourage you to watch this video again.
Let it soak in for now,
and maybe come back to it tomorrow or in a day or two.

--- Exercise 4 - Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Exercise 4 - Walkthrough ---

Instructor: Welcome to this exercise walkthrough.
Now, the script you're going to write today is
very closely based on the previous script you wrote.
As a matter of fact,
we don't have to do any new coding if we don't want to.
You can simply update that existing script to conform
to the new requirements that you have now.
And speaking of those new requirements, the help desk
in our scenario has been using your script and they noticed
that there are some extra output that they don't need
that they don't care to see.
It really doesn't make any sense to them
so they want you to make that output disappear.
And of course, you know that output comes
from the password command PASSWD
and that you're going to have to use IO redirection
to redirect that output to the null device.
And so you start to think
about what else you can do to this script
with IO redirection and you come up with
that you could actually conform to standard convention,
standard Linux programming conventions
by redirecting error messages to standard error and so on.
So with that in mind, let's look at just the couple
of changes that we're going to make with this script.
So we're going to change the name of the script
from add new local user to add newer local user.
Now, in the real world, I wouldn't necessarily
change the name, I would just make these couple
of updates to that script in place.
Of course, test it first and then put it into production.
However, just for the sake of distinguishing what exercise
and what script you're working on, if you need help
and so on, I'm just gonna use a new name here
so that we just get a unique script
for each exercise that we're working on.
So again, in the real world,
you can keep the same name if you'd like.
Now really all the other requirements are still in play
like you wanna make sure
that the script is run with super user privileges.
But the only difference there is that when you display
some help or an error message when they don't,
then what you wanna do is send that output
to standard error instead
of standard output like we've been doing.
And that's gonna be the same thing
for all the error statuses that we're gonna display
in our script.
So that's really the main thing that we're gonna
be changing here.
So here I am on my local system with my terminal open
and I'm going to navigate to the class folder.
From here, I'm going to navigate
to the Vagrant project that we're using
for this set of scripts, and that's local users.
And then I'm going to bring this virtual machine
up and then connect to it.
Now I'm going to move into the shared folder
of forward slash Vagrant, and then here I'm actually
going to copy the previous script we used and just copy it
to this new name that we're gonna work on today.
Of course, you can write this entire script
from scratch again
if you would like just to give yourself some extra practice.
But here for the walkthrough, I'm just going to show you
the couple of changes that you need to make
from the previous script in order to conform
to these new requirements that we've come up with here.
So, what I'm gonna do is just start
at the very top of the script and work my way down looking
for any changes that I need to make.
So here I see an exit status
of one and an echo statement previously before it.
So that's really our error message
when we're exiting with a one.
So what we need to do is send this output
from the Echo command to standard error.
Right now, by default,
it's going to be displayed to standard output.
And so we can do this
with a greater than symbol and ampersand and two.
Now realize here that the greater
than symbol assumes standard output.
So it's also the same as this.
If we want to be explicit and specify file descriptor one
for standard output, I'm not gonna do that.
I'm just gonna delete that and then use this syntax.
The greater than ampersand two.
And of course, as you know
an ampersand right after a redirection operator implies
that you're using a file descriptor instead of a file name.
So again, file descriptor two is associated
with standard error.
So that makes the standard output here.
The echo would generate be displayed on standard error.
Gonna keep working my way down here.
Here I come to another exit statement here
and I'm just gonna do the same thing.
We're just gonna send all this output to standard error,
going to redraw my screen with a cursor at the top
and then just keep on working down here.
So assigning variables is not gonna cause any output.
The shift command won't either.
The output of this command is stored in a variable
so it's not getting displayed anywhere.
Okay, this is a command that could possibly generate output.
Now let me go down in the script a little bit here.
You can see that we're actually checking
for its exit status down here.
So we don't necessarily need to see the output
generated by this command.
So actually what I'm gonna do here is ignore all the output.
I don't need to see the standard output
or the standard error from this command.
So to redirect both standard output and standard error,
we'll use ampersand greater than sign
and then we're gonna send that to the dev null device.
And that's just gonna throw away anything that it gets.
So all the output generated
by this command will not be displayed
to the user running the script.
Again, we come to another exit statement
and that means this echo command right above it is going
to be an error message.
So we're going to send this to standard error.
Okay, so this password command
we know generates some output.
So what we wanna do is, you know, send that output
to dev null so the the user doesn't see this output.
So again, we're gonna use ampersand greater than
and send that to the dev null device.
We're doing a check
for an exit status of the password command
and then we're gonna display an error if we get an error.
So, that means this is an error message,
it needs to be displayed on standard error.
Now we have a another password command.
Again, the help desk users don't wanna see these messages
so we're just gonna send all that output to dev null.
Since we haven't generated any output in our script here,
there's no need
for a blank line to separate the information
that we're gonna display for the user
between the output of the previous command.
So I'm just going to get rid of this echo statement.
And then the rest of our script here generates
the output that we want the user to see.
So let's go ahead and say where changes
and then we will check the permissions on the script.
Now, when you copy a script, it gets the same permissions
as the script it was copied from, but we'll go ahead
and check the permissions here just to be thorough.
Okay, it's 755, so that looks good.
You can see the Xs there and all three sets
of permission so anyone can execute this script.
Now, obviously if they don't run it with pseudo privileges,
they're going to get an error message.
But again, the executable bid is there.
If you created this script from scratch,
then you're going to need a Chama 755 your script.
So now that we have our changes in place
or our new script written, let's go ahead and test it.
So we're going to, let's add a new user here
and we'll just call this username Turing.
And the comment will be Alan Turing and hit enter.
So now you can see
that the only thing is displayed is the username,
the password, and the host that this user was created on.
None of that extra output
from the password commands were displayed on the screen.
And this is exactly what we're looking for.
So I'm gonna go ahead and create our other users here.
We have Woz, again, the display is
just the information that is needed
by the people running the command.
We'll create another user here.
Call this Moore for Gordon Moore.
Okay, we've created three accounts.
Now let's go ahead and see
if those accounts were added to the Etsy password file.
We can do that by just telling the Etsy password file.
Or actually, I'm gonna do a dash three
for the last three lines of the Etsy password file.
Okay, there you can see our users Turing was and more.
Now I'm just going to switch
to an account to be thorough here to make sure
that it still forces the password expiration
and prompts us for a new password on login.
As a matter of fact, before I do this,
I need to go back up here and actually copy the password.
Okay. It's asking for a current password
and then a new password.
Okay, that looks like it worked.
And we're all done with this user.
So we'll just hit exit here
and return to our normal Vagrant user.
So the core functionality of our script is still in place.
It creates users, it expires their passwords, and so on.
So now what we wanna do is actually
test our new functionality.
So one way to do that is to make our script
generate an error, and we can do that
by not running it with super user privileges.
Okay, we get a message on our screen.
Of course, you can't tell if that message is standard input
or standard output, but we'll get to that in just a second.
Okay, it prints a message to our screen.
Now let's check the exit status of the command.
Sure enough, it's an exit status of one
which is exactly what we want.
Now let's do the same thing again,
but this time let's redirect the standard output
and standard error to different places
and then check those to see what is going where.
Now, because by default the standard output
and standard error are both displayed to our screen,
we can't necessarily tell what standard output
or standard error just by looking.
So, what we're going to do is redirect standard output
to a file called STD out.
We could named that anything.
I'm just gonna use the kind of standard abbreviation here.
Again, standard error is gonna go to a file.
I'm just going to name _std.err.
Again, you can name it any file name you want.
So all the output
either goes to standard out or standard error.
So let's examine the standard out file
and there's nothing in that file.
And if we look at standard error,
then our error messages in that file.
So we know that the echo statement is displaying its output
to standard error, and that's exactly what we want.
So let's go ahead and remove these files.
Let's test for another error condition
that our script checks for.
We'll actually run the script here,
but we won't supply any arguments.
So we'll hit enter.
And sure enough, we get an exit status here of one.
And now let's run the same kind of test.
We'll just send the standard output to standard
out and the standard error to a standard error file.
We'll look to see if it generated any standard output.
It did not.
So all the error messages went to standard error
and that's exactly what we want our script to do.
I'm gonna go ahead and clean up here.
All right, now that brings us to the end of this exercise.
So we've made our changes,
our error messages are now being displayed
to standard error instead of standard out
and all that output that was generated
from those other commands are now hidden from the user.
Since I'm done for the day, I'm gonna exit
out of the virtual machine and then go ahead and halt it.

--- Case Statements ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you'll learn
how to use the case statement.
The case statement is the perfect way
to make a decision based on the value of a given variable.
This is especially true when you have
a specific set of values that you're looking for.
So first off, I'm going to open up a terminal
on my local machine
and then go into our class folder of shellclass.
And from there I'm going to go
into the localusers directory
and now I'm going to start
the virtual machine with vagrant up.
Now that the machine is booted,
we'll connect with vagrant ssh
and from here we can move
into our shared folder of /vagrant.
So far in this course,
you've been using the if statement to perform tests
and to make decisions in your scripts.
Today, you're going to learn how to make decisions
using the case statement.
Now before we start writing our script,
let's look at the case command itself.
First off, it's a shell builtin
and we know this because we can type
the type command type -a
and specify the command which is case,
and it says Case is a shell keyword
which is a type of shell builtin.
Of course, since it's a shell builtin,
you know that we can get some information on how to use it
with the help built in,
so we'll run help case.
The first line shows us the syntax
of how to use the case statement.
It's all squeezed together on one line,
so it's a bit hard to read
and I'm going to flush it out for you in the script
I'm about to write so you can see the syntax very clearly.
Also this output tells us that commands
will be executed based on pattern matching.
So what you do with a case statement
is compare a value to a pattern
and if the value matches that pattern,
the commands associated with that pattern
or below that pattern get executed.
If the pattern isn't matched, nothing gets executed.
Again, this will become pretty obvious
with a couple of simple examples.
So I'm going to name this script luser-demo09.
We'll start out all scripts like we do with a shebang
and then let's add a comment here
about what this script is going to do.
Let's start with something you already know
which is the if statement.
By the way, using the if statement
in the way we're about to use it
is not really the ideal way to handle the situation,
but the reason I'm going to show you this
is because one, it builds upon what you already know,
two, you're going to see it done this way in other scripts
so it's best to know what is going on when you see that,
and three, it serves as a nice comparison
for the better way to handle this situation
which is to use a case statement
which of course, we'll be getting to soon enough.
So with that little disclaimer out of the way,
let's say you want to do something if the word start
was passed in as the first argument to your shell script.
You know that the first argument
is stored in dollar sign one,
so you can do something like this.
If dollar sign one is equal to start,
then let's say we just want to echo the word starting.
Then we close out our if statement with fi.
Let's write and quit our changes here,
make the script executable,
and then test it out.
So that looks like it works.
So if we supply anything other than start
as the first argument,
nothing happens in our script.
Let's go ahead and try that out.
We'll try this, nothing happens.
Of course, if we don't supply anything,
then nothing happens.
So again, that is working as we expect it to.
If we want to account for other cases,
we need to code for it.
So let's take a quick look at the help for the if commands.
We'll do help if.
What we need to use to build out our if statement
to account for other strings is elif
which is short for else if.
So let's get back into our script
and account for stop as an argument.
So I'm gonna go up here and add elif.
If dollar sign one is equal to stop,
then we will echo stopping.
So if we read our code from the top down,
if dollar sign one equals start,
then what we're gonna do is echo starting.
Else if dollar sign one equals stop,
then what we'll do is echo stopping.
It's pretty intuitive the way this is working out.
So let's say we're changes and try it out.
Sure enough, we pass and stop
and stopping gets displayed to the screen.
So let's go ahead, jump back in,
and add another elif to handle status.
So here we'll go elif,
dollar sign one is equal to status.
Then we'll echo status.
While we're here, let's handle all other cases with an else.
Let's also make this an error message
by sending the output to standard error
and exit with a non-zero exit status.
Okay, let's try this out.
So we'll do luser-demo09.sh status
and it displays status to our screen which is what we want.
Let's pass this in, restart,
and it says hey, restart is not a valid option.
Please supply a valid option.
And so we can check our exit status here
and sure enough, it's one.
And of course, if we don't display
or pass anything into our script,
we also get the same situation.
We need to supply a valid option.
So what our script is doing is taking an action
based on the value stored in dollar sign one in our script.
Now if you stopped right here,
that would be absolutely fine.
You made things work with the tools
and skills that you had at the moment
which is what we all do anyway, right?
But let's add to your skills
and recreate this exact same functionality
using a case statement.
Let me go ahead and comment out all that existing code first
and then we'll go ahead
and build on it from here.
Now let's build out our case statement.
The first line consists of the word case
followed by the value that you are going to check.
In our case, that value is stored side dollar sign one
and finally, we're going to end the line with the word in.
So we have case, our variable, and in,
case dollar sign one in.
Next, what we need to do is supply a pattern
followed by a closing parenthesis.
For example, we want to see if dollar sign one
matches the word start,
so we do this.
This means if dollar sign one is equal to start,
then execute the code that follows
and here's the code that we want to execute.
If you wanted to execute many commands,
you would simply supply them on a separate line.
To end the code block, use two semicolons.
To finish the case statement,
spell the word case backwards.
All right, so let's try this out.
So that works, now let's go ahead, go back,
and add the other patterns
that we're looking for to our case statement.
So now we're looking for the word stop
and then what we're gonna do there
is echo stopping to the screen.
Gonna end our code block with two semicolons
and let's also look for status.
So notice how we're not repeating ourselves
multiple times like we did with the if statement.
We supply the value that we're checking once
and then all patterns we're looking to match.
So if we go back up in our script,
we use if dollar sign one is this,
elif dollar sign one is that,
elif dollar sign one is something else and so on.
But here in our case statement
we say if dollar sign one is this, that, or the other,
then we're gonna do something based on that value.
Again, it's much cleaner in my opinion
than the longer if statement that we see above.
So let's make sure that this little bit of code works.
Okay, stopping argument works.
Let's look at the status argument
and that works as well.
The only thing that is left to account for
is anything that does not match
the string start, stop, and status.
So let's quickly reference the Bash man page
and get some more information on patterns
as they are used with a case statement.
So I'm gonna type in man bash
and I'm gonna search for the case statement here, so case.
Okay, here we go.
It reads a case command first expands word
and tries to match it against each pattern in turn
using the same matching rules as for pathname expansion,
and then it tells us to see pathname expansion below.
So that means we have to look at that section
of the man page
and we're gonna do that now.
Pathname, let's do exp.
Okay, here we are.
Really what we're looking for in this section
is about pattern matching.
So let me just page down here until we get it.
There it is, Pattern Matching.
So let's see here.
It says any character that appears in a pattern
other than the special pattern characters
described below matches itself.
That's the type of pattern we have been using so far.
For example, our first pattern
in our case statement is S-T-A-R-T
which only matches that exact sequence of characters.
The special characters here
are asterisk, question mark, and brackets.
The asterisk matches any string including the null string.
Said another way, asterisk matches anything.
I'm sure you've probably used this before, right?
So for example, if you want to get a list of files
that end in txt,
you would run ls space *txt.
Now we can do the exact same thing in our case statements.
Now the question mark matches any single character.
Finally, the brackets are used to match any characters
contained within those brackets
and you can also specify a range of characters
by separating them with a hyphen.
This is all good information to know,
how to use a question mark and the brackets and all that.
But for our purposes right now,
we only need the asterisk for our current use case
because we just wanna match anything else
that wasn't already specified.
So we'll get out of the man page by typing q.
We'll get back to our script by starting our editor again.
So now let's match anything that is not already specified
by using an asterisk as our pattern.
So we'll do this, matches anything,
and then we'll say Supply a valid ops option.
Send that to standard error.
Exit our script with a non-zero exit status.
Obviously one is not zero, so that's gonna work for us,
and then we will close out
our statement here with semicolons.
Remember that your scripts
are being executed from the top down.
So once a match is found,
the associated code block gets executed.
If you wanna make sure something matches first,
well, then put it first in your list.
In this case, we are doing the opposite
and using the asterisk as a catchall
to match anything that hasn't already been accounted for,
and we're putting that last in our list of patterns.
So let's go ahead and try out our code.
We'll do luser-demo09 start.
That works, let's try stop.
Oops, I accidentally ended the line
with a line continuation character,
but this is gonna work anyway.
I'll just hit enter
and sure enough, that works.
Let me take that off and hit enter,
and that's what it should really look like.
Excuse my typing mistake there.
Anyway let's keep trying our other options here.
We wanna make sure that status gets matched.
It does, it reports back status.
We'll do restart, for example, here.
When we pass in restart,
it says supply a valid option
because it does not match start-stop status,
but it does match the asterisk
and executes that code.
Let's say we want to modify the script a bit
and allow a user to provide the word status or state
and still execute the same code.
So let's look at help case
and I glossed over this earlier,
but in the help output here for the case statement,
it says that you can use a pipe
to separate multiple patterns.
So we'll go back here
and then we will change status here to status,
pipe which you can think of as an or,
and then we'll type in the word state that we want to match.
Now if dollar sign one equals status
or it equals state,
the code echo status will be executed by the way.
Instead of using two patterns separated by a pipe symbol,
we could have used S-T-A-T* as the pattern.
Now that would match the words status and state.
However it's not as exact
because it would match other things
like statue, stateless, static, and many others.
I just wanted to share another way you could approach this,
but I like the more exacting option we went with here
so let's try it out.
So we'll do luser-demo09 state
and that reports a status,
and of course, we can do status here as well and that works.
Just so you know,
you can use multiple pipes in your pattern.
So let's expand our script to accept --status and --state.
So we can do this, --status or --state.
Save our changes and try our code.
So we'll do --state first, and that works.
-: -status, that works,
and if we supply something that doesn't match like this,
then we fall back into the asterisk pattern
and get that code block there.
Let's wrap up this lesson
by talking about spacing and style.
Just so you know, a case, a statement like this,
is really the basis of most init scripts.
For example, on older Linux distributions,
you would run etc/init.d/sshd status
and you would be provided with the status
of the SSHD service.
Likewise you would stop the service
by executing etc/init.d/sshd stop
and so on and so forth,
just kind of like we have laid out here.
All the systems services were handled
by a simple shell script that used a case statement.
Anyway let's quickly talk about spacing.
What I chose to do when creating my case statement
was to indent each section by two spaces.
For example, the patterns were indented
two spaces from the beginning of the case statement.
Likewise the commands underneath each pattern
were also indented two spaces
from the beginning of the pattern.
If you're a four spaces type of person,
you can do that.
If you like using tabs instead of spaces,
that would be fine as well.
You can even forego the spaces all together
and have everything at the same level of indentation.
But in my opinion,
it's harder to read a case statement
or an if statement
or really anything else without indentation,
so I don't recommend that approach.
If you're only executing one command following a pattern,
it's a common practice to keep that command
on the same line as the pattern match
and to also include the closing double semicolons
on that same line as well.
Let me create a copy of the case statement to manipulate
and I'll comment it out as well.
So I'll just copy that below
and then I'll go ahead and comment it out.
Okay, there we go.
While I'm here, I'm going to clean up that status pattern,
so I'll just do this.
Okay, so let me go ahead
and put these lines together here.
Notice that I'm leaving a space after the parentheses
and before the semicolon.
That's not technically required by syntax,
but it's a little bit cleaner in my opinion.
Now I'm not going to change the code block
for our catchall pattern
which includes the asterisk pattern.
It's multiple commands, and it could get confusing
running all those commands together.
Plus by the way we haven't talked
about the command separator you have to use
if you wanna execute multiple commands on a single line,
and we'll be getting to that later.
Now if you look at this case statement,
it's fairly compact, yet it's pretty clear.
It's pretty easy to read down
the list of patterns, start, stop, status,
and then the asterisk for everything else.
So let's make sure
that this newly formatted case statement still works.
Okay, it still works with start.
Does it work with stop?
It does, let's give it nothing
which should match the asterisk pattern
and sure enough, it tells us to supply a valid option.
So that still works
even though we formatted it slightly differently.
Before we wrap things up,
I wanted to point out that you can use the case statement
in conjunction with values other than dollar sign one.
For example, you could prompt the user for input
and use a case statement to make a decision
based on that input.
You could create a simple menu system that way, for example.
Well, that brings this lesson to a close.
In this lesson, you learned how to use the case statement.
If you find yourself writing a large if elif statement
comparing different values against the exact same variable,
consider using a case statement in its place.
You can check the contents of a variable
against a list of patterns that you specify.
You can do exact matches by specifying
the exact string that you're looking for.
You can also perform matches with patterns
that include asterisk, question marks, and brackets.
To perform the same set of actions
against multiple patterns,
separate each pattern with a pipe.
Remember to end each pattern with a closing parenthesis
and the code block for a given pattern
executes until it encounters two semicolons.

--- Functions ---

Instructor: In this lesson,
you'll learn how to use functions in your scripts.
First off, a function is simply a group of commands
that you call using a single name in your script.
You can think of functions as being little scripts
inside of your main script.
You can call or execute a function just like you would
any other script or command on a Linux system.
There are a couple of reasons
why you would want to use functions.
The first reason is that
you don't want to have duplicate code
in multiple places in your script.
Using functions allows your code to remain DRY.
DRY is a computer programming
and application development principle that stands for,
"Don't repeat yourself."
Functions allow you to write a block of code once
and use it many times.
Instead of repeating several lines of code
each time you need to perform a particular task,
simply call the function that contains that code.
This helps in reducing the length of your scripts
and also gives you a single place to change, test,
troubleshoot, and document a given task.
All of this makes your scripts easier to maintain.
By the way, there is a counter principle called WET,
which stands for, "Write everything twice,"
or, "We enjoy typing," or, "Waste everyone's time."
If you catch yourself typing out the same bit of code,
or you find yourself copying and pasting
existing code in your script,
it's time to dry up that wet code and use a function.
The second reason to use functions
is to break up large tasks into a series of smaller tasks.
This makes your code easier to maintain.
You can zoom into a function that only does one small thing,
and make your changes around that small thing there
in that one place.
For example, if you are using a case statement
to make a decision,
then instead of writing a whole long block of code
inside the case statement,
you could call a function that actually does the real work.
All right, so enough philosophizing,
let's get to work and start creating some functions.
So first off here, as always, I have my terminal open.
I'm going to change into our class folder of shellclass.
We're still working on the localsusers Vagrant project,
and now I'm going to bring up this VM with vagrant up.
One way to create a function
is to use the function built-in command.
Here, you start with a word function,
give your function a name,
then surround a series of commands inside curly braces.
The other way you can create a function
is to give your function a name,
follow it with a set of parentheses,
then surround a series of commands inside curly braces.
Now let's jump into a script and try it out.
Let's create a function called log
that will end up logging messages to the system log
and optionally displaying those messages
to the user executing the script.
We'll iterate over this bit of code
and keep growing as we go, but we'll start out here.
We'll create a function by providing the name,
then following that name with parentheses,
and then we're gonna create a block of code
surrounded in curly braces here,
and we'll just do this for now.
echo, "You called the log function,"
and end it with a closing curly brace.
Now to call it, we'll just use the word log,
and that will execute it just like any other command
on a Linux system.
Now, remember that scripts get read and executed
from the top down.
That means you have to define a function
before you can use it.
That's why we define the log function
at the top of your script here.
When a function is defined, it is read into memory
and it's then available for use.
The code in the function is just remembered initially,
and it's only executed when it gets called.
Notice that when we called the function,
we didn't use the parentheses.
You may have seen this type of syntax and style
in other programming languages
where you actually use the parentheses,
but it doesn't work in shell scripts.
Simply place the name of a function on a line,
and it will execute that function.
So let's try it out.
Okay, sure enough,
we get the output that says you called the log function.
Okay, that's not very interesting yet,
but we'll get there soon enough,
so let's get back into our script here.
I wanna show you the other way you can define a function.
So how you can do that is use the keyword function,
follow that by your function name,
and then you don't need the parentheses here,
and we'll save our changes and test this as well.
So as you can see, it also works.
So either method works.
I'm gonna go back and use this particular style here.
Now let's make our log function display to the screen
whatever is passed to it.
So I'll type out the code here,
and then we will talk through it in just a second.
So what we're gonna do here is this.
I've introduced a new shell built-in called local.
What local does is it makes a variable local in scope
to the function.
That means the value of that variable
is only accessible inside that function.
So in this example,
if you try to display the contents of the message variable
before or after the function, it would be blank and unset.
That's because it only exists inside the function.
By the way, the local command
can only be used inside a function,
that's the only place it makes sense.
And the reason why is that until now,
we've been using global variables,
and that means that the variable and its contents,
or its value can be accessed anywhere in the script,
including in any function.
Now, we haven't been using functions until now,
so it really didn't matter until this point.
By the way, if you define a global variable in a function
by omitting the local keyword in front of it,
that global variable is not available outside that function
until the function is called and executed.
It's not a best practice to do that anyway,
so it shouldn't really be an issue.
However, when you are using functions,
just be aware of the scope of each variable,
and know that it can be a place
that can deserve some attention
when troubleshooting your scripts.
It's a best practice to use local variables
inside your functions.
That way, you won't accidentally reuse
the same variable name in another function
and end up with a tricky bug.
However, you'll find plenty of shell scripts
that do not adhere to this recommendation.
Most of the time, it will not cause a problem.
Just be sure to use unique variable names
throughout your script and you'll be fine.
Now let's talk about the value that is assigned
to the local variable named MESSAGE.
It's our old friend, ${@},
back from our positional parameters lesson.
As you recall, ${@} expands to
all the positional parameters starting from one.
Functions act like a script within your script,
and you can accept arguments which can be then accessed
as positional parameters inside the function.
For example, the first argument passed to a function
is ${1}, the second is ${2}, and so on.
The only difference between a function and a script here
is that ${0} is still the name of the shell script itself
and not the name of the function,
even if you're using ${0} in the function,
and that's really okay anyway,
because you'd never really
want to use that functionality anyway.
Okay, let's try this bit of code out.
When we execute our script,
the function is called first time with "Hello,"
which gets printed to the screen.
The second time the function is called with "This is fun,"
and that also gets displayed to the screen.
Now let's update our function
to only display the message that was passed to it
if a global variable named VERBOSE is set to true.
So we'll check to see if VERBOSE is true, and if it is,
then we'll echo that message to the screen,
and the fi there closes out our if statement.
So let's do this, let's call our function log with Hello,
and then let's go ahead and now set VERBOSE equal to true.
So the first time we call our function, VERBOSE is not set.
The second time we call it, it is set to true.
Now, this function is actually starting to become useful.
If we didn't have this function, then we would have to test
for the value of the VERBOSE variable
every single time we needed to decide
if we wanted to display something to the screen or not.
This means we would end up with a lot of duplicate code
throughout our script.
In any case, what should happen is that the text Hello
will not be displayed to the screen
because VERBOSE has not been set to true at that point,
and the text "This is fun" will be displayed
because as I just explained, VERBOSE is set to true
before log is called with that particular text
passed into it, so let's try that out.
Okay, sure enough, "Hello" was not displayed to the screen,
but "This is fun" was, just as we expected.
If you've ever had any formal training
in computer programming,
you've probably heard that global variables are evil
and you should avoid them at all costs.
Really, what you should try to avoid at all costs
are the problems that can arise by using global variables,
such as different functions
changing the value of a global variable, and so on.
Now, I'm a pretty pragmatic person,
so I like to do what is best for a given situation.
In that vein, let me give you an example
of why avoiding global variables can be less than ideal,
especially with our little use case here.
We could change this function
such that it doesn't rely on the VERBOSE global variable,
and instead make it an argument
that has to be passed into the function.
So what we can do is this, we can add local VERBOSE,
and set that to the value that is passed into it here,
the first value that's passed into it,
and then we'll use shift here.
And then at that point, everything else stays the same.
So what this does
is assigns the first value passed into the function
into the local variable named VERBOSE.
Then the shift command
shifts all those positional parameters,
which removes the value stored in ${1},
makes ${2} ${1], makes ${3} ${2}, and so on.
So more or less,
we chop off the value we assigned to VERBOSE,
and what we're left with
is the message that was passed into the function.
Now we have to update how we call this function.
So here, we're going to do log true
to tell it that we're going to be verbose,
and we can get rid of this piece of code here,
and we're also gonna do this, we'll say true here as well.
Now every time we use the log function,
we need to tell it if we want VERBOSE to be true or false.
Of course, we could set a variable and use that like this.
So we could do this, we could say VERBOSITY is true,
and then we'll do this.
Okay?
In practice, the VERBOSITY is going to remain the same
for our entire script.
Because of that, I could argue
that passing it into the function every single time
is causing us to repeat ourselves
without any real practical gain.
In this example, I think using a global variable is fine.
However, if you disagree with me, that's also fine.
In my opinion, both methods are correct,
so long as they get the job done successfully.
Now let's just show that this little piece of code works.
So we'll save our changes and execute our script.
So sure enough, it executes the function
and displays what we passed to it to the screen.
If we were doing something
like differentiating informational messages
from warning messages from critical messages,
then passing in that log level would make sense,
because it can change throughout our script.
So again, use what works and what makes sense to you.
Just make sure that it actually works, test your scripts.
Now let's revert our code and handle the main concern
of using global variables within functions,
which is that a function might actually change the value
of that global variable, so we'll do this.
The readonly shell built-in
makes a variable unchangeable or unmodifiable.
This is the shell's version of a constant variable,
which is a term you might be familiar with
if you've programmed in other languages.
There are two ways to use the readonly shell built-in.
One is just like we have it here on the screen,
which is to use the word readonly followed by the variable,
and then include the variable assignment there
right after it.
The other way is to perform the variable assignment first,
and then use readonly followed by just the variable name.
There's no need to include the assignment
because it's already performed at that point.
This way, you can separate the setting of the variable
and marking it as readonly.
Now that the VERBOSE variable is readonly,
it cannot be changed for the duration of the script.
That means it cannot be changed
inside or outside of a function.
That eliminates the concern
about a function changing the value of a global variable.
Okay, we've taken care of the first bit of our function
that controls whether or not we display a message
to standard output.
Now let's write the last little piece
that will control sending messages to the system's log.
To do that, we'll use a command line utility named logger.
Let's actually take a look at that on the command line.
Okay, logger is a executable,
so we can run man against that to get some information
about that particular command.
Mainly, you just supply logger a message,
and that message is recorded in the system's log.
By default, on a CentOS or RHEL system,
those messages will go to the /var/log/messages file.
You can read all the details here if you'd like,
but I'm just gonna point out the one bit of information
we're going to use most immediately,
and that is the -T option,
which allows you to tag your syslog message,
so I'll move down here to -T.
This tag is typically set to the name of your program
or the program that is writing to the system log file.
So let's try that out now.
We'll hit Q to get out of this help,
and we'll do this, logger, "Hello from the command line."
All right, and we want to look at
the /var/log/messages file,
and that file happens to have permissions
such that we need root to read that file.
And as you can see there,
the last line of that log file
is what we sent to it with the logger command.
The format of these syslog messages is a timestamp,
followed by the computer name, followed by the tag,
which is, again, most often the name of the program
writing to syslog.
In this case, it's our username,
since we didn't specify a tag.
And finally, the message itself.
So this time, let's add a tag.
We'll do logger -t my-script, Tagging on.
So this time, you can see that the tag reads my-script,
and then we see the message that we passed into that.
By the way, syslog can be configured
to send messages off the server
and to a centralized syslog location, for example.
Now, I cover the details of exactly how to do this
in my "Linux in the Real World" course.
Anyway, that is a good security measure,
because if someone were to have root access to one system,
any logs that they generated are not only stored locally
where they could potentially change them or delete them,
but they're also stored on a remote system,
where hopefully, that person or that attacker
hasn't broken into that system as well.
It's just something to keep in mind.
It would be a reason to use the standard syslog system
built into Linux instead of, for example,
creating your own logging service system from scratch.
Okay, let's add this logger functionality to our script.
Do logger -t, give it the name of our script,
and then we'll send the message to the log file.
Now, regardless of whether the message is displayed
on standard out, it will get recorded in the system log,
so let's try it out here.
Okay, we execute our script,
our messages are displayed to the screen.
Now let's see if they made it to the log file.
And sure enough, they have.
Now let's turn verbose mode off and see what that's like.
Okay, let's change this from true to false,
and execute our script.
So there's no output to standard output.
There's nothing on our screen.
Let's see if it made its way to the log file, however.
Okay, it says "Hello," and "This is fun."
So let's do that again here, and then, yep,
it keeps adding to the log file, so that is working.
Now let's go ahead and turn verbose mode back on.
Before we write our next function,
let's add a quick comment to the top of this function
explaining what it does.
Now, we do this for our scripts, and so our functions
are like little scripts within a script,
so let's do that here too.
So I'll go here and say,
"This function sends a message to syslog
and to standard output if VERBOSE is true," okay?
If you wanted to add more information, you can do that.
Some people like to include things
like any global variables that are used inside the function,
or by the function,
any arguments that the function accepts,
and anything the function might return.
Now, we haven't covered returns yet,
but we'll get to that soon enough.
Moving on to our next function.
As a reminder, functions have to be defined
before they are used,
so a good practice is to put all your functions
at the top of your script.
The only things I would consider
putting before the functions are constant global variables
and sourcing script libraries.
Again, do not call a function before it's defined.
Let's say you have a script
that is going to update several files.
You've lived a life long enough to know
that sometimes things can go wrong,
so you want to make a backup of every single file
before you modify it,
or more accurately, before your script modifies it.
That way if you have an error in your script,
or something unexpected happens,
you have a good copy of each file to go back to.
So let's call this particular function backup_file.
We'll leave a comment here.
All right, we'll get to this return statement here
in just a second.
We're going to use a variable in our function,
so we'll make that local.
We'll do a quick check
to see if that file I got passed in exists.
Again, we're setting a variable,
so we're going to use the local keyword here.
Looks like I missed my closing parenthesis here,
let me do that.
You're probably already familiar with the /tmp directory.
However, here, I'm using /var/tmp,
because the files in /var/tmp will survive a reboot,
while those in /tmp are not guaranteed to survive a reboot.
Typically, the files in /tmp are cleared on boot
and are also cleared more often on a running system.
I think the default for CentOS 7
is that files in /tmp are deleted every 10 days,
while the files in /var/tmp are deleted every 30 days.
That said, I wanna make sure that if I break a file
and then do something like reboot the system,
that I don't lose that file,
hence the reason for me choosing the location
of /var/tmp.
All right, continuing with our variable here.
As you know, the basename command
removes the path to the file
and just leaves us with a file name,
and we don't care about its original path
because we're just gonna put a copy of it
in /var/tmp anyway.
Also, here we're using command substitution
with the date command, and you've used the date command
with a couple of different formats before,
but now I'm introducing the capital F format.
Now, capital F you can think of as standing for full date,
and it displays the year, month, day using numbers.
I love using this format
because it makes sorting by date very easy.
Once we call this function a couple times,
you'll see exactly what I mean.
Also, I attempted to account for multiple backups
of the same file on the same day
by appending the nanoseconds
when the date command was called.
That's represented by the percent sign,
followed by capital N.
We could have used a shell built-in variable here too,
something like dollar sign random, or dollar sign bash pid,
or even dollar sign, dollar sign,
which expands to the pid or process ID
of the current running script.
So now in this function, let's call our other function here.
So after we use the log function
to record what we're going to do here
or communicate our intentions here,
then we're going to use the cp command
to actually perform a copy.
Now, the -p option to the copy command
is short for preserve,
and it preserves the file's mode, ownership, and timestamps.
If you don't use the -p option,
then the copy of the original file
will have the current timestamp.
I personally like to preserve
the original timestamp on the copy,
just in case I need to put that copy back in place.
Because it's a backup,
the contents of that file haven't changed, so in my opinion,
it makes sense to keep its timestamps the way they were
instead of updating the timestamp to today.
In the grand scheme of things, this is really minor,
but it's just something to think about.
Each function, like each command, returns an exit status.
By default, the function returns the exit status
of the last command it executes.
In the case where the file that was passed to the function
actually exists, we'll just let cp return
whatever exit status is appropriate,
and use that as the exit status for our function.
If for some reason the cp command fails,
it will return a non-zero exit status,
and thus our backup file function will return
that same non-zero exit status.
Here, if the file doesn't exist,
that means we obviously can't make a copy of it,
a backup copy of it, so our function more or less fails,
and that's why we are going to return
a non-zero exit status.
Now let's go ahead and call this function in our code here.
We'll backup_file, let's backup the /etc/passwd file,
and let's see it in action.
Okay, we have the output displayed to our screen
because we have verbose mode on,
and then we also see the output
that was generated inside the backup_file function,
which in turn called the log function
to tell us about the backup that it made.
So let's see if these messages made it to the log file.
Okay, sure enough, they have.
Now we have a record of exactly what happened
during that run of that script,
and exactly when it happened,
and all that good information there.
Now let's a look at the file we copied here into /var/tmp.
Okay, you can see that the file
that was in the syslog message here is this file here.
Obviously, I was playing around with this script yesterday
doing some tests,
and so that's why we have these other password files there.
Now let's look at /etc/passwd.
Now let's see what happens when we execute the copy command
without the -p option.
So we'll do cp /etc/passwd,
and we'll copy that into /var/tmp,
and we'll look at the contents of /var/tmp.
Now, right now, the date is January 12th,
and the date of that file is also January 12th.
But if you look at /etc/passwd, it's really January 7th,
it's the original timestamp on that file.
So again, that was the difference with the -p option.
Okay, we're getting really close to the end,
just one more little block of code to go.
Let's jump back into our script.
So as we discussed earlier,
a function has a return code or exit status,
just like any other command on a Linux system.
Now let's check that status.
So let's do it in the positive.
If the return code is zero, that means it's a success.
So what we can do then is say,
"Hey, the file backup succeeded,"
and then if it was not zero,
then we'll say, "File backup failed,"
and we'll exit the entire script there.
So again, if the backup function succeeds,
we're gonna get that log file message that says,
"File backup succeeded."
If it fails, we'll log, "File backup failed,"
and exit the entire script itself
with a non-zero exit status.
Now, by the way, inside a function,
it's super important to use return and not exit.
If the exit command gets executed,
it exits the entire script,
no matter if that exit command is inside a function or not.
So exit, remember, the exit is for the entire script,
return is just for the function.
So now let's try this little extra code out.
Right, it looks like our backup succeeded.
Let's look at the messages file.
Okay, our file backup succeeded message
ended up in the messages file too.
If we were to pass the backup file function
a file that didn't exist, we would trigger an error,
or if the disk was full,
or if the file system was in a read-only state
when the backup was attempted,
it would also trigger an error state and exit the script.
By the way, this bit of code was just to show you
that you can check the exit status of a function
just like you can any other command.
However, in this particular case,
you would want to check if the backup succeeded or not
every single time you performed a backup,
and that means in practice,
you would most likely add this particular check
or this bit of code inside the backup_file function itself.
If you wanted to over-engineer this thing,
you could totally create three functions
to do this same bit of work.
One function would perform the backup,
one would be used to check if the backup actually succeeded,
and a third function would be the one
that you would actually call in your script,
which would in turn call the other two functions.
It would be like a wrapper around those functions,
and it would look something like this.
So we'll just declare a function here, backup_file,
and let's say we'll call our other function
that actually does the backup,
and we'll call it perform_backup,
and we'll just pass that right along here.
Then we'd want to check the backup.
This is actually going to fail when I call it,
because those other functions don't exist, right?
We just kind of made this up on the fly.
So we'll do this backup_file /etc/passwd, for example,
and sure enough, when we call it,
it executes perform_backup, but that command isn't found,
'cause again, it doesn't exist,
and then it calls check_backup, again, it doesn't exist.
So anyway, as you might have noticed,
you can define a function at the command line
like I did right here,
and you really already know this by now, right?
Like a shell script is just automating
what you can do at the command line anyway.
So let's look at this, type -a backup_file.
It tells us it is a function,
and it displays the code that is contained in that function,
or that function definition.
This way, you can write functions
and have them right inside your current running shell.
I feel like we've covered a lot about functions, don't you?
Before we wrap this up, let's do a little refresher
of the main points about working with functions.
In this lesson, you learned about the concept of DRY,
which stands for, "Don't repeat yourself."
If you find yourself writing the same bit of code
in multiple places in your script,
it's a good sign that you should use a function.
You also learned that by default,
all variables are global in scope,
and you learned how to use the local keyword
to define local variables
that are only available within the function
that they are defined in.
You also learned how to use positional parameters
within your functions.
And finally, we covered how to use exit statuses
with your functions by using the return command.

--- Parsing Command Line Options with getopts, Part 1 ---

Instructor: In this lesson,
you'll learn how to process command line options
using the shell built-in Getopts.
If you want your shell scripts
to behave like other Linux executables,
you're going to want to allow users
to specify options that change the behavior of your scripts.
For example, you might want to give the user
a verbose option where the user sees a lot of output
from your script or maybe you want to give them
a quiet option where your script does its work silently,
and then only reports if it has an error.
Probably one of the first commands you learned how
to use on a Linux system was LS.
Right after learning that LS lists files,
you probably learned about the -l option
which makes LS list files in a long listing format,
giving you more information.
Using Getopts helps you
not only provide such functionality in your scripts,
but also helps you to conform
to Linux programming conventions.
Knowing what you've learned so far,
you could use an if statement or a case statement
to check for individual options like -L or -A.
However, you'll want to allow the user
to combine those short options together,
so that -L space -A performs exactly like -LA or -AL.
Doing that with a simple case statement
is actually kind of hard and Getopts handles this
and other little gotchas when working with options,
and that's one of the reasons why we're going
to use it here today.
Okay, let's get to it.
I've got a terminal open on my local machine,
and I'm going to go into our class folder
of shell class and then we're still working
on the local users vagrant project,
and I'm going to bring up the system with vagrant up.
Okay, let's move into our shared folder
of forward slash vagrant.
Now, first off, Getopts is a shell built-in,
and we can tell this by running the type command against it.
We'll do type -a G-E-T-O-P-T-S,
and sure enough, it is a shell built-in.
As you already know,
I recommend using shell built-ins whenever possible
because it makes your script more portable.
That's one of the reasons why we're going
to be using Getopts.
There is a very similar command called Getopt,
that's singular, that you might see in some older scripts.
Getopt is an executable on the file system,
so we'll do type -a getopt,
and sure enough, that is located on this particular system
in user bin getopt.
Getopt is very similar to Getopts,
but it has its limitations and its own set of unique quirks.
If you're interested in learning more about it
or you end up having to dive into the details
of it at some point because you run
across a script that has Getopt in it,
then just read the Man Page on Getopt,
and you'll be well on your way.
Now, let's get some help
on the getopts built-in function here.
So we'll do help getopts.
Actually let me pipe that to less,
so we can actually read what it says here on the screen.
And its usage is getopts optstring name,
and as we know, anything in brackets is optional,
so you have an optional argument there on the end.
Now, instead of me reading this entire help section to you,
just let me quickly summarize it,
and we'll start using it right away.
So the optstring is something
that you are going to provide.
These are the options that your script
is going to recognize and accept.
It's just a series of letters
that are going to be your options.
If you wanna make an option mandatory,
then follow that letter option with a colon.
Next, you're going to provide a name.
It's a variable that's going
to get populated with an option.
That way you can do something based on that option
because you have no idea what a user is going to do
and how many options they may try to supply.
You'll need to use getopts in a while loop.
Getopts returns zero as long as it finds an option
to process, otherwise, it returns one
which will cause the while loop to exit.
Finally, getopts parses positional parameters by default,
but you can make it parse something else entirely
by providing it with an argument at the end.
All right, so let's write a script that uses getopts.
Let's make this script generate a password.
Let's also give the users some control
over what happens here with our script.
We'll let them specify a password length
with a -L option and whether
or not to use a special character with the -S option.
And let's let them control the verbosity or level
of output that is going to be displayed to the screen.
Because the user can optionally specify a password length,
let's go ahead and set a default value for that.
We'll use the variable length,
and we'll set it to 48 characters long.
This default value will be overridden
with whatever the user provides if they decide
to specify a password length with the -L option
which we're going to account for in just a second.
Now, what we're going to do is use a while loop
in conjunction with a getopts command.
In the while loop, we're going to use a case statement
to do something based on the option provided.
This is the structure you're going to see
and use when processing command line options.
All right, I'll just start the while command here.
We'll do while getopts. This is our optstring.
And this is our variable name.
Now remember, we have to tell getopts
what options are valid.
Here, we're going to allow the -V option,
the -L option, and the -S option.
That's why we have the characters VLS in the optstring.
If you want to make an option have a mandatory value,
follow that option with a colon.
By using vl:s, we are saying
that the -L option must be followed
with an argument of its own.
For this script, we want the user
to supply a length to the -L option.
Now, we're going to use a case statement
to process our options.
When an option requires an argument,
getopts places that argument
into the shell variable optarg.
Here we're signing that argument's value
to the length variable.
If a user were to execute our script with -L four,
then four will be assigned to optarg,
and here we're assigning that value of four
into the length variable that we'll
be using later on in the script.
By the way, you could have used an asterisk
as the catchall pattern in the case statement,
but getopts is giving us
a single character option at a time.
So I decided to use the pattern
for a single character which is the question mark.
We'll come back to this section in a second,
but first, let's see what we have so far.
Okay? That's -V for the verbose option,
and that seems to work.
Dash S doesn't display any output
because we didn't tell it to.
Let's see what happens when we run it with -L.
We get an error.
So getopts is taking care of the situation for us.
It's saying, hey, this option requires an argument,
so we'll go ahead and give it an argument.
And that looks good, again, we didn't print anything
or do anything in that case statement,
so this is expected behavior at this point.
So let's do this.
Let's give it an option that is invalid.
So we'll hit that here, and it says illegal option X.
Okay? So this is a good basis for our script.
Now, let's jump back in and continue building this out.
Instead of echoing invalid option to the screen and exiting,
I want to teach the user how to use this script.
In theory, I could place that code
right in the case statement.
However, I think it's going to be several lines long,
so I'm going to put it into a function.
This makes the case statement easier to read.
Again, this is a pure judgment call.
You can do this without a function if you want to.
So here, I'm going to do this.
I'm gonna get rid of this and instead,
I'm going to say usage.
Now, we have to go back to the top of our script
and define this usage function.
Again, it's a best practice to place all your functions
at the very top of your script.
So I'll go up here,
and I will say
usage,
and we'll do this here.
So here, we have our function that displays the usage.
We're modeling our usage here
after man pages and the help built-in command.
We're putting optional options within brackets
and so on and so forth.
We're giving some information about what those options are
and then we're going to exit the script
with an exit status of one because if they've ended up here,
that means they've used an invalid option
or something like that.
So we're going to exit with a non-zero exit status,
so let's try this out.
Let's do luser demo11 -X, and it says illegal option X.
That's coming from getopts.
And then what has happened is our catchall
of the question mark
in our case statement has been executed,
or that has been matched and the code underneath it
which is usage, causes us to execute the code
and the usage function that we declared.
And then we get this information to our screen.
Now our exit status should be one
because that is what's going on in that function.
So let's just check it real quick and sure enough,
the exit status is one.
If we're in verbose mode,
we want to tell the user everything
that is happening in the script.
So let's do a little check.
Let's go down here after the case statement
and the while loop, and we'll do this.
So this is the type of check we need,
but if we need to check the verbose variable
every time we want to display something to the screen,
that is going to be a lot
of duplicated code and repeated work.
So in the spirit of keeping things dry,
don't repeat yourself, we're going to move
this check into a function.
So I'll just actually delete this,
and move it back up to the top here.
So what we'll do is call it log.
Now, I'm not the biggest fan of that name
because we're not actually going to write anything
to a log file in this particular script,
but it works for demonstration purposes here.
It gives you an idea of what is happening
or what this function does.
Now, perhaps, we could have named this function
something like local echo or display, or say,
or probably, something that I like better,
something more verbose, like send to standard out,
or something else that you dream up.
Anyway, I'm gonna go with log here for now.
It's gonna work for our purposes.
So what we're going to do is have a local variable
called message, and we're going to assign
that anything that has been passed into this function.
Now, we'll just do our check here.
If verbose is true, then we'll echo whatever
that message is to the screen.
Okay? And that wraps up our little function.
So now that we have our function,
we need to call it instead.
So we'll go down to the bottom
of our script here and instead of doing an echo,
we'll do log generating a password.
Also, we can replace the echo command
with a log function for the initial verbose message above.
So we have echo here, so we can do the same thing.
We'll just do log here to be consistent.
Okay, let's see if this works.
So we'll do our script name here,
and we'll do a -V option.
Okay? Sure enough, verbose mode gets printed to the screen,
generating a password, also gets displayed to the screen.
Well, let's see what happens if we don't use verbose mode.
Okay? Nothing gets echoed to the screen,
even though we have that log
that says generating a password.
Well, that log function checked if verbose mode was set,
and it wasn't, so it did not display it to the screen.
So this is doing exactly what we want it to do.
So now, let's actually generate a password.
I just stole that little line
of code from one of our earlier lessons.
The main thing to point out here
is that we're using the variable length.
We set the default value to be 48,
but a user can change that with a -L option.
Now, let's see if we need to append a special character
to the password or not,
and we can do a simple check with an if statement.
Again, the couple of lines of code here
that do the actual work were covered in an earlier lesson.
Let's tell the user that we're done
and then just give them the password.
I wanted to point out that the reason I'm
using the echo statement directly to display the password
is that I want to display that password no matter
if the verbose mode is on or not.
So let's check our work at the command line here.
Okay? We get a random password that's 48 characters
in length by default, so that looks good.
Let's append the -S and sure enough,
you can see that a special character is appended to the end.
Let's do this with verbose mode.
Sure enough, now it says verbose mode is on.
We're generating a password.
We're selecting a random character.
We're all done and here's your password.
So that's very, very wordy or very verbose.
So obviously, the verbose mode is doing its job.
Now by the way, something that getopts handles
for us here is convention where you can not only do SV,
but you can do -VS which is the same
as -V, -S
or -S, -V.
Okay. Now, let's try specifying a length.
So we'll do -L -8,
and sure enough, we get a password
that has eight characters in it.
And let's also combine this with a -S option
to append a special character.
All right? So we have a password that's eight in length,
plus one, plus a special character.
Again, we could go back and really revise this script
and get specific and really make sure
that if we're adding a special character
that we chop off character from the password before it.
So it's actually truly eight characters.
Again, I'm of the mind that this probably is close enough.
This gets us like 90% of the way there
without going in and doing some even more complex work
that in the end, probably, truly doesn't matter
for our practical use case here.
Okay, so at this point, we could really stop here
because our script does exactly what we want it to do.
However, I wanna show you how
to handle additional command line arguments
beyond the options that you are taking care of with Getopts.
In order to do that, we need to talk
about arithmetic expansion and arithmetic evaluation.

--- Parsing Command Line Options with getopts, Part 2 ---

Instructor: Let's say we want to add two numbers together
and assign them to a variable.
So we can do this like this.
We'll create a variable right here on the command line.
We'll call it NUM, and we'll follow that with dollar sign,
opening parenthesis, opening parenthesis,
and then an expression here, one plus two,
and we'll close that with these double parentheses here.
So this dollar sign, parenthesis, parenthesis syntax
is called arithmetic expansion.
Bash evaluates the arithmetic expression
within the double parentheses,
and it returns or substitutes the answer in its place.
So now NUM, the variable NUM
should contain the value of three,
and we can check it like so.
And sure enough, it does.
Okay, let's do some subtraction.
We'll set NUM equal to 10 minus one,
and the value of that is nine.
Multiplication is handled with an asterisk,
so let's do that.
Two times four is eight.
Division is handled with a forward slash, so we can do this.
Let's talk about this particular situation.
So we'll do six divided by four, and then Bash returns one.
So six divided by four is actually 1.5,
but again, Bash just returned one to us.
So here's what you need to know.
Bash doesn't do any rounding,
it just drops off the decimal point and anything after it.
So really, Bash doesn't support floating point arithmetic.
That's usually fine,
because what you'll end up doing most of the time
is very simple math, like adding two numbers together,
or incrementing a number by one during a loop,
and things like that.
If you need to work with numbers that contain a decimal,
then you're going to need to use an external program,
such as bc, which stands for basic calculator.
Now, it might not be installed by default,
so if you do this, type -a bc, and you don't see it there,
then what you would need to do is sudo yum install dash yes,
or -y, excuse me, bc to install it.
So here I have it installed, but you may not.
Again, you may need to install it.
So let's get some help on this thing here, -h.
If you wanna do floating point math with bc,
you have to turn on the math libraries with the -l option.
Also, it's important to know
that bc reads from standard input,
so you can do things like this.
We can do echo six divided by four,
and we'll pipe that into bc,
and we'll use the -l option, and it returns 1.5.
By the way, if you need a quick calculator
at the command line,
you can just run bc -l, and then do that here as well.
Six, four, or one plus one, or whatever you want to do.
And then you can type Control D
to exit out of the calculator here.
Quickly, you can also use awk to do this.
It's a little bit more cumbersome,
but I'm just gonna show you quickly how to do it,
and you can stock it away
if you want to use it at some time.
Again, I don't necessarily recommend doing this,
but you may see this in other people's shell scripts.
So we can use this, awk, BEGIN,
and then what we wanna do is print six divided by four,
and that is 1.5.
So whether you're using bc or awk,
you get the full and complete answer.
Now let's get back to Bash.
So six divided by four according to Bash is one.
There is a remainder, though,
when you do six divided by four,
and you can get that remainder with the percent sign,
also known as modulo, or the modulo operator.
So we can do this, NUM equals six modulo four,
and that is going to be two.
It prints two because six divided by four is one
with two leftover or a remainder of two.
Now, this comes in handy
when you want to do alternating things.
For example, you could treat all even numbers one way
and all odd numbers in a different way.
Even numbers divided by two always have a remainder of zero,
while odd numbers divided by two have a remainder of one.
Then you could use a simple if or case statement
to handle those different situations.
By the way, you don't have to use hard coded numbers
like I've been doing here.
You can also use variables inside the parentheses too.
So we can do something like this.
DICEA is equal to three, DICEB is equal to six,
and the total of those die would be DICEA plus DICEB.
And of course, six plus three is nine.
You might have noticed here
that I didn't use a dollar sign for DICEA or DICEB.
Those are variables inside those double parentheses.
You don't do that when you're using this particular syntax.
By the way, you can assign or change
the value stored in a variable.
Here, you don't need the leading dollar sign.
That leading dollar sign is used for substitution,
but we don't want to substitute the command for its value,
we just want to change a variable.
Hopefully just seeing it here will make more sense,
and it'll be clearer than me trying to talk through it.
So let's do this.
Let's set NUM equal to one, and let's increment the value
stored in the variable NUM by one,
and we do this by parenthesis, parenthesis, NUM++,
and then the closing parentheses here, and let's echo this.
So now NUM is two.
So we've changed the variable without doing any output
when we're using the double parentheses syntax,
but it still affects the variable.
Now let's decrement the value
stored in the variable NUM by one,
and we can do this with dash, dash, or minus, minus,
and then two minus one is one, and there we are,
we have one stored in the variable NUM.
Let's add a number to the value of the variable
and store that new value in the variable.
So we can do this, NUM += 5.
So one plus five is six, and we assign that to NUM,
and that is what is stored there.
You can also do things like minus equal,
asterisk equal, which is multiply,
forward slash equal, which is division,
modulo equal, and so on.
Now, if you wanted to, you could actually use substitution
to change the value of the same variable,
and it would look like this.
We could do this, NUM is equal to dollar sign,
these parentheses, NUM += 5, and that is 11,
'cause six plus five is 11.
What this does is takes the output of the NUM += 5 operation
and assigns it to the variable NUM.
If that seems clearer to you,
you can do it that way as well,
or you can use the other syntax
that I was just demonstrating.
Now, before we wrap up our discussion on math,
I wanna show you two other ways to perform math operations
that you might encounter in other scripts.
The first way is with a let bash built-in.
You can see all the operators
that are supported by doing this.
We'll just get some help on it, help let,
and we'll pipe that to less.
So you can see here
the post-increment operator of plus plus,
the pre-increment of plus plus,
that's before the variable name,
plus and minus, the explanation,
all these things that we're doing here,
and these things that we were doing here,
like plus equals, minus equals, and so on.
Now, this let syntax pretty much does the same thing
as using double parentheses, so let's do this.
Let NUM equals two plus three,
and sure enough, that sets NUM to five.
You can also do this, let NUM++,
and that increments it by one,
so now we have NUM with a value of six.
The second way you'll see math performed in scripts
is with the expr command.
The double parentheses syntax we've been using
is built into Bash,
and that's the route I recommend if at all possible.
However, you can rely on external programs,
like we saw earlier with bc.
So the expr command processes an expression given to it
and then sends that result to standard out.
So expr 1 + 1, it returns two.
Now, to do assignment, we just use command substitution
like we would with any other command.
So we'll do NUM, it's normal command substitution syntax,
and again, two plus three returns five,
that is assigned to NUM, and that is what is displayed
when we access the value stored in that variable.
Okay, so that was a pretty long aside,
but we needed to cover it
before we could get back to getopts, and let's do that now.
getopts does not change positional parameters.
What this means is that the options are stored
in ${@}, ${1}, ${2}, and so on.
So let's add a bit of code into our script
to kind of prove this and point it out.
So right here, after our while loop and case statement,
let's do this, echo the number of arguments
is stored in ${#}.
The contents of all the arguments is stored in ${@}.
The first argument is stored in ${1}.
Second argument is stored in positional parameter ${2}.
Okay, so now let's exit our script and see what this does.
So we'll do this, luser-demo11, -sl 8,
and we'll just type some extra stuff, if you will,
at the end of the command line.
So here, we have three arguments, -sl is stored in ${1},
8 is stored in ${2}, and extra-stuff is stored in ${3}.
In my mind, once the arguments are processed,
they should be removed as a positional parameter.
Now, getopts doesn't do this for us,
but it gives us a way to do it.
So let's jump back into our code.
getopts sets a variable named OPTIND.
It stores the position of the next command line argument
following the options in that variable.
So let's look at its value in action.
So we'll run our same command here,
and OPTIND is set to three
because the third argument is the index or position
where the arguments start after the options.
If we want to remove the options that have been processed,
that means we need to shift them down by two.
So stated mathematically, that's OPTIND minus one.
Now let's see if this little formula
holds in some other examples.
So let's do this.
Let's just use -s, and then some extra stuff.
So sure enough, OPTIND is two.
So if we subtract one from two, that leaves us with one,
and if we shift by one,
then what's left is anything supplied after the options.
Now let's just run it with just some extra stuff,
without any options that we're checking for.
Now in this case, like I said,
there are no options, and nothing needs to be shifted.
However, our little formula still works,
because OPTIND is one, one minus one is zero,
and if we shift by zero, we change nothing,
which is exactly what is needed for this case as well.
So let's add this little bit of code, or this formula,
or this algorithm, if you will, to our script.
So we're going to shift by the number of OPTIND minus one.
Now we can process ${@}, ${1}, ${2}, and so on,
just like we've always done.
Now let's display the contents of ${@}, et cetera,
after the shift.
So we'll do this, echo, after the shift,
and we'll just grab all these up here
and print them to our screen again.
So now let's use luser-demo11.sh -sl 8 extra-stuff.
So sure enough, that works.
The number of arguments we have at the beginning is three.
Again, -sl is stored in ${1}, ${2} is 8,
${3} evaluates to extra stuff.
So after getopts is done and we process all those arguments,
the only thing we're left with is extra-stuff,
which after we do our shift is assigned to ${1},
and that's exactly what we want.
So then we could do things like loop through
all the other remaining arguments on the command line
with a while loop, for example, while ${@}.
We could then make people do things like
after all your options,
then we require you to give us a file, or a username,
or whatever that we expect in ${1}.
Then we can test and do some work against ${1},
and so on, and so forth.
However, let's say, in this particular script,
we want to treat anything
other than the options on the command line as an error,
and the easiest way to do that
is to test the ${#} value.
So let's jump back into our script and say, if,
if the number of arguments is greater than zero,
then we're going to give them the usage statement,
and we'll get outta here.
Again, we're going to reuse the usage function,
since it teaches the user how to use the script
the way we want them to,
and then it exits with a non-zero exit status.
And remember, when you use shift,
the number of arguments changes,
and that also updates the ${#} variable,
so this is going to work.
Now, before we test our updated script,
let's clean up our debugging and development code here,
all these little echo statements,
and make sure everything is all cleaned up.
So let me go up here, we'll get rid of that,
and we don't need these lines as well.
Now let's do this, let's run it with an argument.
So here, it gives us the usage, just like we want.
Of course, we exit with a non-zero exit status,
because it's using that usage function
that we created at the top of our script.
So let's do something like this.
Let's say we'll pass a valid option,
and then also append some stuff to the end of the line here.
And sure enough, it gets to that point
where it's looking at the number of arguments
after we've processed the command line options,
and that has triggered
the calling of the usage function as well.
So let's go ahead and do this
with something that is proper, -s,
and sure enough, we get our password
with a special character appended to it.
Let's do a quick recap.
In this lesson, you learned how to use getopts
to process command line options.
You learned how to wrap the getopts command in a while loop,
and use a case statement to perform different actions
for each option.
When you want an option to take an argument,
you follow that option letter with a colon
and the opts string.
You also learned how to strip away the options
from the set of positional parameters
by using the OPTIND variable provided by getopts.
Finally, you learned how to perform mathematical operations.
You learned that you could assign the result
of an arithmetic evaluation to a variable
by using the dollar sign, double parentheses syntax.
In addition to hard coding numbers in your expressions,
you also performed arithmetic using variables.
You even learned how to change
the value stored in the variable directly
using a few different operators,
including the increment, decrement,
and the plus equal operators.

--- Deleting and Disabling Linux Accounts, Part 1 of 4 (Finding Files) ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you'll learn how to disable,
delete and archive users on a Linux system.
Now, I've already booted up
our local users virtual machine here
and I've logged into it.
I'm still in Vagrant's home directory,
because I haven't changed into the shared directory
of /vagrant just yet
and we'll do that later in the lesson.
I just wanna work in my home directory here for now.
So far, we've been using the example
of creating users as an excuse to learn
all kinds of shell scripting concepts and techniques.
For the last few lessons,
I've actually been preparing you to write a script
around deleting users.
The main point isn't to have scripts
that can create or delete users,
it's to learn techniques that you can use
in any shell script.
Having said that, you are going to write a script
in the next assignment that will have you deleting users,
so you need to know how to delete users.
So let's go ahead and cover that now.
The command to delete a user from the system is userdel.
Now, if you use our normal type command as a regular user,
you're probably going to get an error.
So if I do this type -a userdel,
it says userdel not found.
And let's see what happens with the which command,
which userdel, and it says there is no userdel
and then it gives our path there.
Which tells us that there's no userdel
in (usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/sbin) et cetera.
It is our path that it's displaying there.
So just as the which command tells us,
the userdel command is not in our path.
We talked about paths earlier in the course.
At this point, there really is two options.
One, the userdel command really doesn't exist,
it does not exist or two, it in fact does exist,
but it just exists outside of our current path.
So I quickly wanna cover how to find a command
that is not in your path,
because you may run into this from time to time.
Now, most Linux systems
have locate installed and configured.
The locate command searches an index
that is created by the updatedb command.
The updatedb command is typically scheduled
to run once a day.
This means that locate doesn't have
up to the minute information,
but on the other hand, it's very fast.
It finds things in that pre-created
or pre-populated database or index very fast.
So if we do this, if we type in locate userdel,
we'll get some results here.
And if we look at the top of our command,
we can actually see that the command resides
in /usr/sbin/userdel.
That's actually where the command lives.
Now, just to prove that locate isn't using real-time data,
let's create a file called userdel
and then try to find it with locate.
So I'm just going to touch userdel
right here in my home directory.
Again, the touch command creates a file
if it doesn't exist or if the file exists,
it touches it and updates its timestamp.
So sure enough, userdel is on our system
and if we type locate userdel,
we don't see anything about Vagrant's home directory.
So if we force an index update,
we should be able to find that userdel file
that we placed into Vagrant's Home directory
by using the touch command.
And by the way, to run updatedb,
you need root privileges,
because what it does is searches the entire file system
and you don't have permissions to every single file
as a regular user, such that Vagrant is.
So we'll do this, sudo updatedb
and let that run for a second here.
And once that is done, now we can do locate userdel
and now at the very top there of the output,
you see /home/vagrant/userdel,
that file we just created.
Let me take a step back.
So I would first use the locate command
and actually since I'm looking for a binary
or an executable file,
I would limit my search to only include things
in the bin directory.
Let's now take the standard output of the locate command
and send it as standard input to the grep command.
The grep command displays matches to a pattern
and discards everything else.
So if we do locate userdel, pipe that into grep
and our search pattern
is simply going to be the characters B-I-N and hit ENTER.
So this really, really narrows it down for us.
We see two possible options
and obviously, the one at the bottom there
/usr/sbin/userdel is what we're looking for.
Sometimes the file you're looking for
is not in a place where you have read permissions.
The locate command honors those permissions.
So if we do something like this,
locate .bashrc and hit ENTER,
we only see /etc/skel/.bashrc
and then the .bashrc in our home directory.
Now let's run that same command with root privileges.
Now we see all the .bashrc files on the system.
As the Vagrant user, we don't have permission
to look inside root's home directory for example.
So if we do this, ls -l /root/.bashrc,
we get an error, permission denied.
We can't look at anything
in root's home directory by default.
So if we use root permissions,
we can now see the file.
And by the way, that quick little thing I did there,
the double exclamation marks or bang bang
actually represents the most recently executed command.
So if you want to execute the most recent command
with root privileges,
use the shortcut sudo !!.
The command that will be executed actually gets displayed
to the screen first and then any output generated
by that command is displayed.
So here we can see that sudo !! expands
to sudo ls -l /root/.bashrc
and then the output of that command follows.
So that's just another quick shell tip
for you right there thrown in the middle of this lesson.
Anyway, my point here is that sometimes
you need to use root privileges to find a file,
because you do not have permissions
to view that file as your own normal regular user.
Let's say locate isn't installed or configured.
So what would you try next?
Well, I would use my knowledge
of the Linux file system hierarchy
and then start looking in places where the file might live.
For example, if I'm looking for a configuration file,
I would start looking in /etc or /etc,
but since we're looking for an executable,
also called a binary, I would look in bin directory.
So let's do this.
Here, it looks like /bin is assembling to usr/bin
and sbin is actually assembling to usr/sbin.
On most modern Linux systems this will be the case,
but on some older Linux distros or on some Unix systems,
you might find that they are actually different directories
with different contents.
So let's go ahead and look in /usr/bin
and see if userdel is there.
Nope, no such file or directory.
And by the way, when you see no such file or directory,
please believe it.
It's telling you that the file doesn't exist
or the file that you specified does not exist.
Anyway, let's try it in /usr/sbin/userdel.
Here, we don't get an error.
We get some valid ls output
that shows us that the file does exist.
Actually, I probably could have shortened up my search
just a little bit here,
because userdel is a system administration type of command.
Now, system admin commands are usually found
in sbin directories.
Normal commands that all users can run
are found in bin directories,
for example, ls is a command that everyone needs,
not just a system administrator,
so it's found in /usr/bin.
There is another way to find files
and that is with the find command.
Unlike locate, find looks at files in real time,
which makes it slower than locate, but yet up to date.
There are a lot of options to the find command
and I'm not going to go through each and every one of them,
but here's just a very quick crash course
and how to use the find command.
Now, the format of the find command
is find followed by the path to search in,
followed by any options, expressions or search patterns.
If you don't give find a path,
it starts searching in your current directory.
So let's look in the /usr/bin directory.
So if you use find, follow that with a path
and then hit ENTER.
Here, it just lists all the files in that directory,
because we haven't narrowed down our search.
And by the way, it not only lists
the files in that directory,
it would list any files of any sub directories
and any files within those sub directories and so on.
To say it another way, find searches recursively.
Now, let's tell it the name of the file we're looking for.
So we can do this, find /usr/sbin/
and there's an option called -name
and then we supply that with the name
of the file we're looking for.
We're looking for userdel.
Okay, admittedly that was too easy, because we already knew
where to find the userdel command
and I was cheating a little bit there.
But if you have no idea where the file exists,
you can search the entire file system starting at the root.
I don't necessarily always recommend this approach,
especially if you're working on a system
that has a lot of files on it, but it will work.
So let's do find / -name userdel.
Here, we're seeing a lot of permission denied errors.
There are two ways around this.
One is just to send all those error messages to /dev/null
so we don't have to look at them.
And let's try that here now.
So we know that error messages
are displayed on standard error
and standard error is represented by file descriptor 2,
so we'll use file descriptor 2
and redirect that to the Bitbucket,
also called /dev/null and hit ENTER.
Now we don't get any of those error messages to our screen,
because they were redirected into /dev/null
which does nothing with them, it just throws them away.
And we're left with all the matches to the userdel name
without any of the errors.
So in this particular case,
we find the file that we're looking for,
but what if the file we were looking for
is really somewhere where we need root permissions
or a place where our particular user
does not have permissions to view?
In that particular case you want to run
the command as a root.
So we can do this, sudo find / -name userdel.
There is so much more to the find command
and there's so much more you can do,
but this little crash course will really get you started
and pointed in the right direction.
So at this point, we've proven that userdel exists,
even if the type in which commands
do not provide any information on those commands
due to the settings of our path.
However, userdel will be in root's path.
So I'm going to switch to the root user.
Here on the Vagrant system, by the way,
the root password is also vagrant, V-A-G-R-E-N-T
and hit ENTER and now I'm the root user.
And if I type type -a userdel,
I'm going to see where the userdel command resides.
All right, I'm gonna get out of the root account here
and back to Vagrant.

--- Deleting and Disabling Linux Accounts, Part 2 of 4 (The userdel command) ---

Instructor: Now let's find out how
to actually use this userdel command.
Again, since it's a file on the file system,
we know we can use the man subsystem to get some information
and help on this particular command.
Briefly, the userdel command deletes a user account
and related files.
If we look forward here to the dash F option,
it stands for force, and it removes the account
even if the user is logged in,
and it also deletes the user's home directory
even if that home directory is shared with another user.
Normal user accounts don't share
the same home directories usually, or they shouldn't.
But in some cases,
you might have multiple application accounts
that share the same home directory.
Here's a little note here that says
to use caution when using this option.
Now let's keep looking through the options here.
The dash R option is the one that we're most interested in,
as it removes the user's home directory.
So let's try out this userdel command.
First, let's look at some users on our local system here.
We'll do tail, etc, password,
and we can see we have Einstein, Isaac,
T Edison, J Locke, et cetera,
and these are all accounts that were created
through previous exercises and through some
of my previous work I've been doing on this virtual machine.
So if we do this, let's delete the Einstein user,
sudo userdel, Einstein, and hit enter.
Now if we run ID against the Einstein user,
it'll say, hey, there is no Einstein user available.
So sure enough, the userdel command got rid of Einstein,
and let's look in the home directory.
So this really proves to us that running userdel
without any options removes the user but leaves their files.
Because you can see here the Einstein directory
is still listed in forward slash home.
This might come in handy if you want access
to a user's files after they have been removed.
Now, there's something else to notice here.
Notice that the user and group
for the Einstein's home directory are actually numbers.
This is because there's no account associated
with UID 1001 any longer
because we deleted that account that had the UID of 1001,
which is the Einstein account.
So if you ever run an LS command
and see numbers where you would normally see a user,
then know that you're looking at a UID or GID
and that there is no account associated
with that particular UID or GID.
So while we're talking about UIDs,
let's look at a couple of users.
The root user always has the UID of zero.
So if we do ID space dash U, which returns a user ID,
follow that with a root account,
we should always get back zero.
Now, there are some other accounts on the system
that are considered to be system accounts
or application accounts.
Let's look at another one of those.
Let's look at the SSHD account.
Here, it has an ID or a user ID of 74.
Now let's look at the U I D for our current vagrant user.
It has a UID of 1000.
As you saw earlier, Einstein has a UID of 1001,
so I don't know if you notice a pattern here,
but really, system accounts have lower UIDs.
This is actually set in a file called login.defs,
and that's located in etc.
So let's just look at that really quickly.
I'm gonna page down here until we get here.
Here we see UID min, UID max.
So these are the minimum and maximum values
for automatic UID selection and user add.
So when you create the very first user on a Linux system,
it's going to have a user ID of 1000.
And by the way, that is the user ID of our vagrant user
because that was the first account created on the system.
Then the next time we add an account,
the number will get incremented by one.
So Einstein was the next account that was created.
So it had a UID of 1001 and so on.
By the way, if you look below this,
you see SYS UID min and SYS UID max.
This means that the maximum user ID for a system account
or what's considered a system account is 999.
If you wanna make sure
that you're not deleting a very important account,
perhaps it's a good idea to check its UID first.
If it's less than a thousand,
then clearly be careful of what you're doing
because it could operate a service
that you may need on your server.
Okay, let's jump out of here
and let's move on to our next user, id dash U Isaac.
This user has a UID of 1002.
Let's delete this user
but this time remove its home directory.
Right, if we try to get the user ID of the user again,
it says now it's deleted, it's gone.
There is no such user.
And if we look for a home directory for this user,
it doesn't exist.
So again, that proves the dash R option
removes the home directory and all the files
that were within that home directory as well.

--- Deleting and Disabling Linux Accounts, Part 3 of 4 (Archives with tar) ---

Instructor: Let's say we want to archive
or store a user's home directory just in case we need it.
One way to do that would be with a tar command.
The tar command originally stood for tape archive,
but you can also use it to archive files
to any storage device, not just tapes.
So we'll use type against tar.
Shows that it's a file on the file system
which is executable here in the /usr/bin directory,
and let's look at the man page for this command.
I'm just gonna move down here a little bit
and look at these examples here.
So these three examples are the three main uses
of the tar command.
Here you can see how to create an archive,
how to view the contents of an archive,
and how to extract the contents of an archive.
So the dash c option is used to create an archive.
The dash f option allows you to specify the file name
of the archive file.
The dash t option is to list the contents of an archive.
The dash v option is for verbose.
And the dash x option is for extract.
So let's try these commands out.
And by the way, if you want to get details on those,
of course, they are listed here
and all the options in the man page.
First let me create a directory
and some files in there so we have something to play with
and something to create an archive with.
So let's say we have some cat videos.
Let's do this, catvideos/admiral-catbar.
Let's call this one darthpaw.
What else can we come up with here?
Let's do luke-claw-walker.
One or two more here, obi-wan-catnobi.
How about padme-amikitty.mp4 here?
So if we look in our catvideos directory here,
we have some empty files
that were created with the touch command.
Now let's go ahead
and create an archive of these cat videos.
Dash c to create, f to specify a file.
We'll say catvideos.tar since that is the convention.
You don't have to do this, but this is a good practice.
And then we'll give it a path to archive.
So we're just going to archive catvideos,
that directory and all of its contents.
So if I do ls here we have catvideos.tar,
so the archive was created.
Now let's look at the contents of that archive.
We'll do tar -t to list the contents of the archive
and we have to give it a f, a file,
which is catvideos.tar.
So that shows us the contents within that tar file.
If you wanted to see the files as they were being added
to the archive, you can use the verbose option.
So let's go ahead and just delete this tar file here now
and do this, c verbose and then do catvideos.tar
in the catvideos directory.
By the way, you can leave off
or leave on the directory separator.
Either one is fine.
I'm just gonna leave it on for this time.
So this time, instead of silently creating our tar file
the dash v option allowed us to see
what was being added to our archive as it was happening.
Let's go ahead
and restore the files from this archive somewhere.
Let's go ahead and just create a restore directory
change into that directory.
And then what we're going to do is do an x, for extract,
and then we gotta give it a file.
And of course dot dot is a parent directory
of where we were just at.
And then forward slash is a directory separator,
and then catvideos.tar is the name of the file.
So again here ../, I'm not doing anything
that's necessarily related to tar.
This is just a Linux convention of relative pathing,
how to get to a file that's in the parent directory
of your current directory.
By the way, I could have used the full path.
I could have used home/vagrant/catvideos.tar
but I'm not gonna do that.
Okay, so we have our command here
dash x for extract,
dash f for the file that we're going to use
as our archive file which is ../catvideos.tar.
I'm going to hit Enter.
So now if we look in this new directory here,
we have the catvideos directory created
and if we list the files in that catvideos directory
we get all those files that were inside that archive.
I'm just gonna go ahead and remove all this right here.
So this time let's use the verbose option
to see exactly what we're extracting.
And this is typically what I like to do.
Okay, this shows that it's created the directory
and then put those several files within that directory.
Okay, I don't need that directory right now,
so I'm just gonna delete it
and I'm going to type cd .. to move back up
to the parent directory and I'm back in my home directory.
One of the common things people do with archives
is actually compress them to save some disk space.
Now this can be a two step process like so.
Let me go ahead and just remove the tar file that was there.
Let's create a catvideos.tar file
and now let's gzip it.
By the way, the gzip command compresses the original file
and appends a .gz to the end of the file name.
So if you see a file that ends in tar.gz,
it's a compressed archive.
Now to decompress or uncompress a gzip file use gunzip.
Now we have our uncompressed original tar file back.
Let's go ahead and delete that.
You can perform the compression
on the archive when you create it,
if you use the dash z option to tar.
So what we can do here is do tar dash z for compress,
and c we're going to create an archive,
v is gonna be verbose, f is we're going to give a file name,
and then a path to what we're going to put in our archive.
Here we can see we have our catvideos.tar.gz file.
And if we want to view the contents of a compressed archive,
we also need the dash z options.
So we'll do tar dash z, t to list, verbose, f for file.
You know the drill, we'll give it the path
and then we can see the contents
of that archive without actually extracting it.
So let me go ahead and just delete that right now.
Sometimes people like to use the file extension of .tgz
to represent a compressed archive.
So we can do this tar zcvf catvideos.tgz
and then give it a path.
So it's just something to keep in mind that .tar.gz
and .tgz are really the same thing.
Let's go ahead and restore this compressed archive.
We'll go into our restore directory here
and there's nothing in our folder.
So let's use the dash z option
'cause we're working with a compressed file
and then provide the path to that file.
Actually this time I'm going to use the full path.
Okay, it displays what was extracted
and if we look, sure enough we see the contents
of that archive has been extracted on disk.
I wanna point out something that's kind of important here.
The tar command, really like most Linux commands,
treats you like a knowledgeable, sane, responsible adult.
So it will happily override anything in its way.
It assumes you know what the heck you're doing.
So let's add some text to a file
just to change it up a little bit.
So let's just put some text in here
into our catvideos file of darthpaw.
And if we cat the contents of that file
we'll see it says what we piped into it.
By the way, !$ takes the very last argument
on the previous command line
and places it on the current command.
So again, we're using what's called
event designators in bash
and you can see that !$ expanded to
the last thing on our previous command line here
catvideos/darthpaw, and then it displays
the entire command that's gonna be executed
and then it displays the result of that command.
Just another quick tip for you there.
Anyway, back to the original point.
Let's go ahead and extract this archive again.
Let's execute the most recent command
that starts with c, which is cat.
And if we cat catvideos/darthpaw, nothing is returned.
And if we look at a long listing of that file,
it now has a file length of zero
and so nothing is in it which is the original file,
or the file that was in the archive.
So again, tar there, just overwrote the file.
It didn't ask for a confirmation or anything like that.
It didn't give you a warning,
it just went ahead and overwrote the file.
So be very careful when you're extracting archives
and just be conscious of what you're doing.
This also goes without saying,
but tar relies on file permissions
like any other command does.
So if you try to create an archive of files
that you don't have permissions to,
well that's just not gonna work.
Also, if you try to extract the contents
of an archive to somewhere
where you don't have permissions to,
that's not going to work either.
So if you wanna be sure you have permissions,
use sudo or become the root user first.
For example, let's say you want to back up the contents
of the /etc that contains pretty much all
of your configuration files on the system.
You'll need root privileges to do that
because there are some files in etc
that a normal user just does not have access to.
So let's get back to our home directory
and do sudo tar dash z,
I'm gonna leave out the verbose option, cf.
We'll create the etc.tgz file
and we'll archive the contents of /etc.
Here, like I just said,
I didn't use the verbose option,
mainly because I wanted you to see this particular message.
tar says I'm removing the leading forward slash
from member names.
If we look at the contents of the archive,
we'll see that there is no leading slash either.
So we'll do this, tar -ztvf etc.tgz.
So we can see the last file there, etc/nanorc
is not /etc/nanorc, it's just etc/nanorc.
This allows you to extract the contents of the archive
into a different location
without overriding all the existing files.
So if it preserved the leading slash, /etc/nanorc,
if you tried to extract this archive,
then it would overwrite that file
and that may be not what you want to do.
For example, maybe you want to extract this
into a different subdirectory
and then compare the contents of that archive
or that backup to what is currently on disk,
instead of just blowing right over it
and overriding it right away.
So more or less here,
tar is going to remove the absolute pathing
indicated by the leading forward slash
and it's just going to leave you
with a relative path within your archive.
There is one more thing I'd like to talk about
with the tar command.
Now, you may have seen people leave off the leading hyphen
and do things like this,
tar zcvf catvideos.tgz
and then give a path.
So this is an older type of syntax
that is still supported to this very day,
so I just want you to be aware of it.
And some documentation you might actually see
mention of quote, old options, unquote.
Well, this is what they're talking about.
If you use this old option syntax,
all the options must be written together
as a single clumped set without spaces separating them
or dashes preceding them.
Also, this set of letters must be the first to appear
on the command line after tar itself,
and then some white space.
Old options cannot appear anywhere else.
They must immediately follow tar with some white space.
The letter of an old option is exactly the same letter
as the corresponding short option.
For example, the old option t
is the same as the short option dash t.
When options require an argument
those arguments have to be presented in the same order.
This can get pretty confusing
if you use multiple options that have an argument.
So instead of worrying about how to do it correctly,
honestly my advice is to simply use a hyphen
before your options.
That way you can do things like this tar space -f
and then provide whatever option you want to
after that command.
And then all your other options
they can be -c, -v and so on, and here's a path.
And we do this and sure enough, we get our archive created.
If we wanted to do it with the quote old style syntax,
we'd have to do this tar cvf catvideos.tar
and then the path.
So that works.
So we couldn't do something like this, for example,
tar F catvideos and then do c and v out here,
because what it's gonna try to do
is interpret c and v as files that are to be added
to the archive and not as options.
So again, it gets kinda confusing when this old syntax,
so just really treat tar like any other command
and start using dashes.
If some old grumpy Unix guy with suspenders
and a beard yells at you for doing this,
well just tell 'em that I told you to do it,
and put the blame on me.

--- Deleting and Disabling Linux Accounts, Part 4 of 4 (Disabling Accounts) ---

-: Now let's cover the last piece of this puzzle which is
how to disable, or how to lock an account
without actually deleting it.
Let's say you have someone who's going on an
extended vacation or taking a leave of absence.
You want them to use their account when they get back,
but you also know that for every account that exists
on a system, there is a chance that someone could
break into that account.
Since this person is going to be away for a long time,
no one may actually notice if the account is being used
by someone who should not have access to it.
So let's say you decide to go ahead and lock that account
for security reasons.
The best way to do this is to actually use the
C H A G E command or change, or change age.
Actually, you can think of it as the change age command.
So let's look at the man page for this command.
I'm gonna page down here till we get to the
dash capital E option, and that's the option to
expire an account.
Here it says you can specify either a date,
or the number of days since January 1st, 1970.
It also says to unexpire the account use negative one
or dash one or hyphen one for the argument
to the dash capital E options.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
So we have a user on the system called "Woz",
this user has a UID of 1008.
If we change to this user, let's see if it's working here.
Sure enough, it is, I created it with a password
of pass one, two, three in my particular system.
It may not be that on your system, just something to
keep in mind.
Type exit here, and now I'm back to the vagrant user.
So let's expire this account.
Now let's try to switch to the account.
And sure enough, it says, "Hey, your account has expired.
Please contact your system administrator."
So as we learn from the man page,
we can actually unlock this account with dash E dash one.
So we'll do sudo change the age of the expiration
to negative one on the account of Woz.
Now let's see if we can log into this account.
And sure enough we can, and there's been one failed login
attempt since we logged in while the account was locked.
Let's get back out and go back to our vagrant user.
Some older methods of locking account include using the
dash L option to password, something like this.
Sudo password dash L Woz and then it says,
"Hey, I've locked the account."
And then to unlock it you would use P A S S W D dash U
against the account name, and then sure enough it says,
"Hey we've unlocked that user and you're good to go."
Now locking an account with a password command
like this does not prevent a user authenticating
with an S S H key.
That's very important to know, especially since more
and more we're using S S H keys as our primary method
of authentication.
So if you're using S S H keys at all, this is not
going to do what you think it's going to do, so don't do it.
Use C H A G E instead.
Another method is to set the shell to something that is
actually not a shell or something that simply exits.
To look at the available shells on a system,
you can look at the Etsy shells file.
So we'll do that, cat Etsy shells, and we'll see here
there's no login, user S been no login.
Those would in theory, prevent someone from logging in.
So let's do that now, we'll set the shell
of the Woz user to be no login with a user mod command
Dash S is to specify the shell
and we'll give it no login and we'll set that to Woz.
I think I've covered enough in this lesson
so I'm not going to take another diversion
and cover the user mod command.
So if you wanna learn more about how to change all
the settings for an existing account,
simply read the user mod man page.
At first glance, you think that this might actually work
because if you S S H N and you have no login set
as your shell, you'll get immediately logged out
of the system.
It does work for interactive logins like I just described,
but you can still do some things with S S H that don't
require an interactive login or don't require a shell,
such as port forwarding.
So again, use the C H H command with a dash capital E zero
option to actually disable the account.
We spent a lot of time here at the command line today
so for fun, let's write a quick shell script
that deletes a user account using some
of what we've seen today.
So let's go ahead and go into our shared folder
of forward slash vagrant.
I'm going to call this particular script L user demo 12.SH.
It goes without saying we'll need a shebang.
Let's give this a description.
Since we're doing some system administrator type stuff
we wanna make sure the user is executing the script
with root privileges, we already know how to do this check.
If the user ID is not equal to zero
that means they are not the root account.
So let's give them a little message here.
Let's redirect that to standard error and exit one.
Okay, let's just assume, which is not a good word by the way
assume the first argument is the user to delete.
We'll keep this script simple here just
for demonstration purposes.
So we're just going to use a variable to represent the user.
We'll call that user.
We'll sign that dollar sign one.
By the way, you could use dollar sign one
throughout the script, that would be acceptable.
I just like to have a descriptive variable name.
So now let's go ahead and delete the user.
And let's make sure the user actually got deleted.
And we can do that by checking the return code
or exit status of the user dell command.
And if it's anything but zero, we know it's bad news.
So if we get past this if statement
that means the user dell command succeeded
and that means we can tell the user
that the account was actually deleted.
We can tell them which account was deleted
which they specified.
And then if we make it to the end of the script,
we exit with an exit status of zero
because we've had a normal completion.
'Kay, I'm gonna run chmod here, and make sure this is
executable and then let's execute it with root privileges,
and let's delete a user.
Actually, let's look at the last user in the Etsy password
file on this particular system.
It is more, so let's do this.
Let's delete the account called moore.
Okay, it says the account moore was deleted.
We check it, sure enough, it's not there.
Let's do something interesting like try to delete an account
that doesn't exist.
Okay, it says User dell, user Jason does not exist.
That's actually an error message from the user dell command.
And then our error message is displayed.
The account Jason was not deleted,.
and that's because we checked for the exit status
of the user dell command.
Okay, let's wrap this up.
In this particular lesson, you learn how to
delete an account using the user dell command.
If you want to remove the user's home directory
use the dash R option to the user dell command.
To find files on a system, use the find, locate,
or L S commands.
To create an archive of files use the tar command.

--- Deleting Users – Exercise 5 – Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Deleting Users – Exercise 5 – Walkthrough ---

Instructor: In the previous exercises,
you have been writing scripts to do things like add users.
Well, now it's time to do the opposite.
We're gonna write a script that deletes users,
and actually this particular script not only deletes users,
it can disable them and it can archive
a user's home directory.
So the first thing of course we need to do
is come up with a little requirements document, if you will,
and figure out what in the world
do we want our script to do?
And here are the things that we want the script to do
and how we want it to operate
and what we want it to look like.
Well, the first thing we decided on was
that we wanna make sure that this script is called
disable-local-user.sh.
Since we're doing some system administration type stuff,
like the deteting users or disabling them,
we need to make sure that whoever's executing this script
has root privileges or super user privileges.
So we're gonna put a check for that
in the top of our script.
We also wanna provide a usage statement,
much like you would find in a man page
if the user that's executing the script
does not supply an account name on the command line.
And then of course, we're gonna follow
good Linux programming conventions and exit our script
with a non-zero exit status.
We also decided to use disable
as the default action for this script.
And we also decided that we can let the users decide
if they wanna do something more destructive,
such as delete an account,
or remove the user's home directory.
So we've given them a few different options.
Again, the -D will delete an account
instead of disabling it.
-: R is going to remove the home directory
and a -A will create an archive of the home directory
associated with the account and then store it in the
/archives directory.
Now by the way, this is just kind of an arbitrary decision
that I made.
I'm gonna put these things in /archives.
There is no standard for such a directory.
This is not gonna be a directory that you're gonna find
by default on a newly installed Linux system.
It's not part of the Linux file system hierarchy,
it's just a folder that I decided to use.
In that respect, what we need to do is just make sure
that that directory exists, and if it doesn't exist,
we're gonna have our script create it.
Now, if a user does something interesting
like supply an option that we don't account for,
then we're going to give them that usage statement
and exit as well.
We've also decided to make it a little bit easier
on the end users that are gonna be running this script,
they can supply, you know, one user, two users,
or however many users they want at the command line.
So if they wanna delete seven users,
well they can supply all seven users at once
on the same command line.
And this script will simply loop through them all
and perform the exact same action against all those users.
So if a user supplies the -D option and seven accounts,
well it's gonna delete all seven of those accounts.
Speaking of deleting accounts,
we don't want someone to do something interesting
like delete the root account and make our system unusable.
Along this logic, we don't want to let people
who are not system administrators
do things like disable any system account.
We know that typically system accounts have a user ID
less than 1000.
So let's just put a little check for that in our script
and we'll exit saying, Hey, we're not gonna do that.
If a system account needs to be deleted,
well give that task over to a system administrator
and let them do it.
If we encounter an error along the way,
either deleting or disabling or archiving the account
or creating a directory or what have you,
we're going to tell the user that we encountered a problem
and then exit the script.
Also, the last thing we wanna do
is just make sure that we display the username
and any actions that we took
against that account or username
for the user that executed the script.
So that pretty much does it for our requirements.
Now let's get the scripting.
Here I have a terminal open on my local system
and I'm going to go into the Shell class folder.
We're still working on the local users project
and I'm going to bring up the virtual machine
and log into it.
Now we'll go into our shared folder of /vagrant.
And again, we decided to name this script
Disable Local User dot sh.
Okay, it goes without saying,
we're going to supply a shebang line
and then we'll just give a comment about what this script
is going to do.
So we know that we're going to be executing some commands
that require root privileges,
so let's just go ahead and check that right away.
So if the user ID is not equal to zero,
then they are not root.
This is an error message.
So we're gonna send this to standard error
and then we're going to exit with a non-zero exit status.
We also want to parse the command line options,
so we'll do that next.
We know that we can use get opts in a while loop.
We'll specify our ops string here,
the options that we're going to accept,
and we're going to accept D to delete, R to remove,
A to archive, and we'll use the variable Option.
We'll check that option in the case statement here.
So if someone supplies D, let's set a variable called
Delete User and we'll just set that true.
And then later on in our script,
we will check to see if delete user is true
and if it is, then well, we'll delete the user.
Here I'm going to do something slightly different.
If you recall, the User Dell command allows you to specify
a -R option, which removes the user's home directory.
So what we're going to do here is use this Remove Option
variable in the User Dell statement
when we get to that in this script.
So if this is set to nothing
or if the option is never supplied, this dash R option,
then Remove_Option is going to evaluate to an empty string
and nothing will be substituted in its place.
And so then User Dell will be executed
without this -R option.
Now on the other hand, if someone does specify -R,
then User Dell will be deleted with -R.
Now it's gonna make total sense when you see it in a minute.
I just wanted to talk about that for just a second.
We'll do something similar here that we did
with the delete user option,
which is if someone gives us a -A,
we'll just check for this archive being true
later in the script.
And if they give us any other option,
then we're going to tell them how to use our script
and exit.
Now my case statement here is looking
pretty nice and compact,
and I think I'm going to use a function
for displaying this usage statement
and then exiting the script.
Now, another argument for creating a function like this
is that we're gonna have to do this same thing
multiple times in the script
because we're gonna have some other checks
and then we're going to give them a usage
statement and exit.
So let's go back to the top of our script here
and go ahead and create our function.
As you remember, dollar sign zero
is always the name of the script,
not the name of the function like you may intuit.
That's not what happens with dollar sign zero,
it's always the name of the script.
So we can safely use that in the function.
So now we have some optional options.
So those options that are optional go in brackets.
Then we have a mandatory argument,
so we're not gonna put that in brackets,
but optionally we have additional users
that we can allow them to specify.
And they can specify multiple ones,
so we'll do this, we'll use an ellipsis there.
Now we're going to exit,
and that will wrap up our usage function.
Okay, let's jump to the bottom of our script.
And now after we process our options,
let's just shift all those options outta the way.
And then anything that's left over
are going to be user accounts
and then later we'll loop through those user accounts.
So we wanna make sure that the user gives us
at least one account to operate against, and if they don't,
then that means they don't know what they're doing.
So we're gonna give 'em some help.
Call our function that we wrote and close our If statement.
Now we're ready to loop through all the usernames
that were supplied as arguments.
I like to tell whoever's executing the script
what user we're processing or working on.
Again, they may supply multiple users on the command line.
We wanna make sure that we're not removing
any system account.
So we wanna get the UID of the user that we're processing.
ID-U will return the UID, the number for a username.
And then we can test against that.
So if the UID is less than a thousand,
then we're not going to remove that account
before we do anything like delete a home directory,
let's make sure we create an archive of it,
if the user requested us to do that.
So if someone passes in the dash a option,
then archive gets set to true. And if archive is true,
well then let's make an archive.
Actually, I'm going to create a variable called
Archive_DIR, which represents the archive directory.
And I'm gonna use this multiple times in the script.
So I think what I'm gonna do is
put it at the very top of the script,
even before our first function here of usage.
And really what this is acting as is a constant variable.
You could even do this, you could even make it Read Only,
if you like.
So I'm gonna put it at the top because
this is the only thing that I can think of
that we might want to adjust later on down the road.
For example, if we wanna put these archives
on another place in the file system,
then we can just change this variable
at the very top of our script,
make that one small change and not change anything else
and be good to go.
Okay, let's jump back to the bottom and continue scripting.
So what this If statement says is, if not exists directory
archive directory then,
okay, so how did I get that exclamation point?
Well, you know that the things in double brackets here
are tests and you know that we can get information
on the tests we can run
by using Help Test at the command line.
And if we look at that, actually I'll just do that now,
Help Test, and it gives us a list of tests.
And you can see here that exclamation mark expression
means true if expression is false.
So you can think of that as negating the expression,
or you can think of the exclamation point as not.
So that's where I got that.
So ultimately what it's saying is if the archive directory
doesn't exist, well guess what?
We need to create it.
By the way, I'm using the -P option to the mkdir command
because if we have a archive directory
that has multiple sub directories, for example,
we could do something like Archive Users or whatever,
and if the first directory,
the parent directory or parent directories don't exist,
then we need to create them.
And that's what that -P option does to the mkdir command.
It creates parents, if you will.
So in our particular case, we're just using /archive
so it doesn't matter.
But if we were to change that variable
at the beginning of our script
to something that does include sub directories,
then we'll need to use the -P.
So we're kind of future proofing our script,
if you will, here.
So if the make command fails,
then that's gonna mean that we can't put
any of the archives we create in that directory
because it directory didn't exist
or wasn't able to be created.
So we're gonna bail on our script here.
So let's do another check.
So we'll check the return status of mkdir,
if it's anything but zero, we have a problem.
So now that we know the archive directory exists,
let's go ahead and archive the user's home directory
and move it into that directory.
Now, by default, normal user accounts
have home directories that live in /home.
So if we have a Jason account, then my home directories
is gonna be /home/Jason.
Now, if you have an application account or a system account,
that's probably gonna live somewhere else
in the file system.
For example, the route home directory is /root,
an application directory might be /var,
/www for a web user or something like that.
So here we're also using this convention
to be another safeguard.
If an account doesn't have a home directory in /home,
then it's probably a system or an application account.
And at that point, we probably want a system administrator
to look at it manually do it or whatever,
instead of just whoever happens to be managing accounts.
Now, those people I'm sure are knowledgeable
about managing accounts,
they just may not work on Unix and Linux systems all day
like we do, so again, we're just gonna reserve that
for a higher level of person that's not using this script.
On the other hand, we could have made the decision
that we're just going to extract the proper home directory
and delete it no matter where it lives on disk
or create an archive of it no matter where it lives on disk.
So I can leave that up to you,
but here I'm just gonna do it this way.
So we're going to create an archive file
and we're just gonna give it a full path here.
We're gonna put it in the archive directory,
and then we're gonna name it Username,
and we're going to make it a compressed tar file.
So that's gonna be TGZ, easy for me to say.
And here we go.
Here's our check about the home directory.
So if the home directory does exist, and that's a good sign,
we'll go ahead and move ahead and make our archive.
We're gonna compress it, so that's a -Z, option,
C to create an archive,
F is the location of the archive file.
Then the path to archive, which is the home directory
and Tar is gonna make some noise
so we're just gonna send that to Dev Null.
We don't want the end user to see any output created by Tar,
it's just gonna be distracting to them.
But we do wanna make sure that Tar executes successfully.
So if Tar exits with a non-zero exit status,
we'll say we couldn't create the archive
and then exit with a non-zero exit status ourselves.
By the way, I just noticed a typing mistake I have up here.
I'm used to doing closing bracket and a quotation mark,
but I don't need that there, and if I remove it,
then I see my syntax highlighting go back to normal here.
And so I noticed that because this syntax highlighting
looked different, that's what queued me into that there.
So that's kind of good to have an editor
with syntax highlighting.
Okay, so this if statement says,
"Hey, if there is a home directory -D,
if this thing called Home Dir is a directory and exists,
then you archive it.
And if that doesn't exist or it's not a directory,
then we're gonna tell the user, Hey, that doesn't exist,
or it's not what you think it is,
we're gonna get outta here, exit 1."
Now this concludes our if archive equals true If statement,
and now we want to see if we need to delete the user or not.
So let's do this.
So here's what I was talking about earlier
with this remove option.
So if we're going to delete a user,
we need to use the User Dell command.
Additionally, if we want to delete
the user's home directory, we need the -R option.
So if they give us a -R option,
we store that and Remove_Option.
Now here, remove option will evaluate to -R
if they supply -R,
or it will evaluate to an empty string.
In that case, it's just gonna be like user Dell
space, space username,
which is going to give us the exact result that we want.
So that is one way to handle this kind of situation.
There are other ways,
but this is a pretty simple way to do this.
So we wanna check the exit status of the User Dell command
because we don't want the user thinking
that an account got deleted
when it really didn't get deleted.
Now I wanna point out something here.
We're doing a lot of the same thing here,
which is checking for an exit status, if it's not zero,
then we're gonna give an error message and exit.
So I'm doing each one explicitly
and changing the echo statement for each one
so that the user knows exactly what failed in the script.
In theory, you could simplify this a bit and say,
write a function that will execute a command
and then check the return status on that command
and then bail or exit your script if it doesn't succeed.
So there is some food for thought
or maybe that's some extra credit,
after you write the script this way,
then maybe write a script and have it
use a function called Run Command or Run and Check
or something like that.
Just something to keep in mind
if we make it past the if statement,
that means the account was deleted.
And by the way, here's another thing.
You could have put this inside of the If statement
like this, you could have said,
if there was a non-zero exit status, we have a problem,
get outta here or if there was not, not not zero,
if the the exit status was zero, more or less,
then the account was deleted.
I'll leave that up to you. I'm just gonna do it this way.
If it makes it past that if statement,
then the account was deleted. That makes sense in my mind.
So if the delete user is set to true, we do all that above,
we use User Dell, if it's not set to true,
then we're just going to disable the account or expire it.
We can do that with a CHH command.
And again, we're just going to actually duplicate
this bit of code, so I'm just gonna copy it and paste it
and just change it.
Here it says the account username was not disabled.
Again, if you're copying and pasting,
that might be a sign you need to function.
I'm go ahead and grab these two lines up here as well.
Again, if we get past this if statement,
that means the account was disabled.
Okay, that brings us to the end of that if statement.
That also brings us to the end of our for loop,
and that also brings us to the very end of our script.
We're going to exit with a zero exit status.
Now, I know with long scripts like this,
I can make some mistakes.
And also one of the most common mistakes
are typing mistakes, not necessarily logic mistakes.
So what I'm gonna do is actually go back to the
very beginning of this script and look for things like
quotation marks, spelling mistakes, brackets, braces,
kind of some normal hotspots that I may have some errors in.
So I'm just gonna jump back to the top
and just kind of read things through
and correct them as I see them.
Okay, at the first here, I see the script.
We can call it This Script, that's a minor one in a comment,
not gonna make a difference to functionality,
but there's a little typing mistake.
There's another one.
Okay, here's another one.
I have a dollar sign in the wrong place.
It should go inside the quotes there.
As you can see, can you see the syntax highlighting change?
So that's good. That's another error that I found here.
Okay, at least I found a couple and corrected them
before I executed my script.
If not, then I would've just started debugging then.
Maybe the error message would have given me
an indication of where at in the script I had the error
and so on.
I would've also perhaps gone to the very top here
and used some options like -X, -E or -V
or even all three combined there
to do some debugging that way.
Or even even some manual debugging like this.
I would just echo archive DIR, and then exit, for example,
to create a manual stop point or checkpoint, if you will.
So, those are just a couple of debugging tips.
Now that we have our script created, before we execute it,
we need to give it executable permissions.
Now let's execute this script without super user privileges
and see what happens.
It says, "please run with sudo or as root".
That's what we want.
Let's make sure it exited with a non-zero exit status.
And sure enough, we have an exit status of one.
So this time let's run it with the proper privileges,
but don't supply any options or don't supply any usernames.
Okay, we get a usage statement just like we wanted,
and we also get a non-zero exit status,
which is exactly what we expect.
Now, let's supply an invalid option.
Let's supply a -Z, which we don't do,
and it says disabled local user illegal option -Z.
Now that is coming from the get ops shell built in,
but the usage statement, of course,
is coming from our usage function.
Since we know that that function ends with exit one,
we can confirm that indeed our script exited
with a one exit status.
Now, let's try to disable a system account.
So on these particular systems, we're not really using mail.
And I know mail is a system account user with a low UID.
So let's go ahead and delete that.
Now, if we deleted the mail account,
then probably nothing bad is gonna happen.
And again, these are test systems,
so we could throw them away and build a new one.
So let's try it here, sudo, disable local user,
and we will try to disable the mail user.
Okay, it says, I'm refusing to remove the mail account
that has a UID of 8.
So that is exactly what we want.
Again, a non-zero exit status to go with that.
So now what I'm gonna do is actually create
some test accounts here to test my script with
and actually wrote a script to create these test accounts.
I'll just show it to you really quick here.
It's a pretty simple script.
It just is mainly a for loop that sets everybody's password
to PASS123, creates the account and then sets the password.
So I'll just go ahead and add those test accounts now.
And now we have a few accounts to play with.
Now let's run our script against one of these test users
that we created.
Here it says the account was disabled,
so let's make sure it's disabled by trying to log into it.
We will use our handy password to PASS123
and it says, your account has expired.
Please contact your system administrator.
So that's the exact kind of behavior we want,
just to be thorough, let's also make sure
that the home directory for that user still exists.
Okay, sure enough, it does.
Now let's delete the Mark H account.
So we'll give our script here.
We need the -D for the delete option,
and then the account of Mark H.
Okay, it says processing user, and the account was deleted.
Let's see if it was.
Okay, no such user, that means it's gone.
Okay, the home directory still exists,
which is the behavior we wanted and expected.
Now let's delete a user and their associated home directory.
So we can do -DR.
Okay, it says the user was deleted.
That's right.
Okay, home directory is gone.
Okay, now let's test the functionality
that we have built into our script
of operating on multiple users that are supplied
as arguments to the script.
And also, let's test the ability to create archives
of these user accounts.
So let's do this.
We'll use -D for delete, R to remove their home directory,
and A to archive it before it gets removed,
and we'll give them these two users.
Okay, it says processing user Alec G,
creating directory slash archive.
Now, that is the directory that we're going to store
these archive files in.
And again, that doesn't come by default on a Linux system,
so we had to create it ourself in our script.
Then it says it's archiving the home Alec G directory
to archive AlecG.TGZ,
and then it says the account was deleted,
and then it moves on to the next account, Peter M,
archive and delete as well.
So let's make sure the accounts
and home directories are gone.
Okay, the account is gone.
Account for Peter M is also gone.
Just check these both at once here.
Okay, no home directories,
but let's make sure the archives were in fact created.
Okay, there we have it, two TGZ files, one for each count.
Let's look at the contents of those archives.
They're compressed, so we'll need a -ZT,
to list the contents. V will be verbose,
F allows us to specify the file.
Let's do this one first. That looks good.
Okay. And we have the archive of both of those accounts.
So that wraps it up for this particular exercise.

--- Cut and Awk ---

Instructor: In this lesson,
you'll learn how to use the cut and awk commands.
The cut command is used for cutting out sections
from each line of input it receives
and displaying those sections to standard output.
You can use cut to extract pieces of a line
by byte position, character position or by a delimiter.
This makes cut ideal for extracting columns
from a CSV file, for example.
Cut is not a shell built-in, it's a standalone utility.
So, we can use the man command to get some information
on this command line utility.
You can perform cuts by bytes by using the dash B option,
by characters with a dash C option
and by fields by using the dash F option.
For each one of these options,
you'll need to supply a range.
Ranges are pretty simple and I'll demonstrate them
with a couple of examples.
Also, you'll probably use the dash D option
to specify a delimiter when using the dash F option,
unless you are working with tab delimited data.
Okay, I'm just gonna use the text that already exists
in the ETC password file and then use the cut utility
to cut it up or slice it up in different ways.
So, let's just look at the contents of that file now.
Let's start out by cutting the password file by character.
To print the first character of each line,
we'll use dash C one and one here is the range
that we're specifying.
So, we'll do cut dash C one ETC password.
And if you notice here at the bottom,
we have a vagrant user and a vboxadd user at the bottom
of our screen.
So, when we execute this command,
the last two lines should begin
with a letter V, for example.
Okay, sure enough, it's V on the last two lines,
just like we anticipated.
If you supply a single number,
then only that number is displayed.
So, to display the seventh character of each line,
use dash C seven.
Okay, that's not too useful.
This next one isn't too useful either,
but hang in there with me.
We'll do some actual work in just a minute.
You can specify a starting position and an ending position
by connecting them with a hyphen.
So, to cutout characters four through seven,
we could use dash C four dash seven.
It's important when you're specifying a range
that you do not use spaces.
There is no space between four, the dash and the seven
in our command, so just keep that in mind.
Okay, let's say you want to display every character
on a line, starting with character four.
To do that, use a range of four dash.
This is useful if you don't know how long each line is
or if the lines are of varying links.
So, cut dash C four dash ETC password.
You can do the opposite, which is to display every character
up to and including a position.
So, to display the first four characters,
you can use dash C dash four.
By the way, that range is exactly the same as one dash four.
And we get the same output.
So, here's one last range.
You can pick out multiple individual characters
by separating them with a comma.
For example, to print the first,
third and fifth characters use one comma three comma five.
It is important to point out here
that cut won't rearrange the order,
even if you specify a different order in the range.
For example, this command that I'm about
to type generates the exact same output.
Cut dash C five comma three comma one.
There are a couple of different methods
to rearranging the data, but we'll get to that later.
And one more thing, if you supply a range
that doesn't match anything, then you'll get a blank line.
So, let's try to print the 999th character
in the password file.
There isn't a 999th character in any of the lines,
so there is nothing to display for the line
and you end up with a blank line being displayed instead.
Okay, so that really covers how to use ranges.
You'll notice that I've been using the dash C option
to cut on characters, but you can use the dash B option
to cut by byte.
To display the first byte of every line
in the ETC password file, well, we would use dash B one.
That's the same in this particular case as dash C one.
However, a byte is not always the same as a character
because there are some characters that are made up
of multiple bytes and are thusly called,
multi byte characters.
For example, UTF eight characters
are multi byte characters.
Let me display a multi byte character
to the screen with echo.
To display the first character in that string,
use dash C one.
So, we'll just pipe the output of echo
as the standard input to the cut command and do dash C one.
So, what we did there with the pipe is pretty standard
and you've been doing it a lot throughout this course.
I just wanted to be explicit and say
that you don't have to supply a file for cut
to operate on some data,
you can also use standard input as well.
Okay, so back to the difference
between a bite and a character.
So, dash C one prints the Enya
and I hope I pronounced that correctly.
Apologies to anyone who speaks Spanish.
But look what happens when we only print the first byte
with dash B one.
The first byte is displayed
of the multi byte Enya character.
In most cases, this is not what you want.
Just something to keep in mind.
Let's move on to the dash F option.
It allows you to cut lines by field.
By default, dash F splits on a tab.
Anything before a tab is considered to be the first field.
Anything after the first tab and before the second tab
is considered to be the second field and so on.
Cut uses the term field, but you can think of these
as columns if you wish.
Let me generate some tabs and limited data
with the echo command.
The dash E option to echo allows you
to use some back slash escapes
that allow you to do some things like,
generate a tab character a new line and so on.
Back slash T represents a tab, so we can do this.
Echo dash E one and then forward slash T will produce a tab.
We'll use the word two forward slash T is another tab
and we'll use the word three.
So, if we want to display just the first field,
we can do this, cut dash F one.
And to display the second field, cut dash F two.
Third field is of course cut dash F three.
So, what happens if you have data that is not tab separated?
Let's say we're dealing with a CSV
or a comma separated value file.
In this case, you need to tell the cut command what to use
as the delimiter.
Here, it's a comma.
At the first field, the second field and the third field.
Sometimes, you'll see people do what I'm about to do here,
which is to not use quotes around the delimiter
when specifying that delimiter.
So, you might see something like this,
cut dash D comma dash F two, for example.
You may also see people not put a space
after the dash D and do this.
Either one of those methods work,
as long as it's a character that's not used
or interpreted by the shell.
If you're trying to do this, it won't work.
So, we'll do this.
Here, you have to quote the forward slash,
otherwise the shell interprets it
as a line continuation character.
It's just one of those little got yous that can happen
and that's why I suggest you always quote your delimiter.
The password file is actually made up of a series of columns
or fields all separated by a colon.
So, let's print the username and UID of every user
in the password file.
So we'll specify the delimiter as a colon
and say give us fields one and three
from the ETC password file.
Notice that the output is delimited
by the original delimiter
to change it use the dash dash output dash delimiter option.
So, let's change it to something else here.
Here's a common situation that you'll face.
You'll have a CSV file with a header
or some other type of data that contains a header.
Let me create a CSV file on the fly here.
When you do this...
You get the header and the output.
So, you have two choices.
The first one is to remove the header
before you send the data to cut
or remove it after cut has done its work.
Before we do that, let's review the grep command quickly.
By default, grep displays matches to a pattern
that you supply.
So if we look for the pattern of first,
it will display the line or lines that match that pattern.
So, we do grep first people and here we have three matches.
And notice that it doesn't display any of the lines
that do not match.
Let's narrow down our search,
such that it only matches the header.
You can do that by supplying more information
or a more exact pattern.
If you want to be exact,
you can use regular expression anchors.
Speaking of regular expressions, what I'm about to show you
are my two most commonly used regular expressions ever.
If you never learn any more about regular expressions,
you'll have at least these two very important ones
at your disposal.
The first regular expression is a caret symbol.
It matches the beginning of a line.
It matches a position and not a character.
So, if we wanna match all the lines that start with first,
use caret first, like so.
Notice that the results returned are different
when you do not use the caret character.
The second regular expression is the dollar sign.
It matches the end of a line.
It too matches a position and not a character.
So, if you wanna find all the lines that end in T,
we can do this, grep T dollar sign.
So, to force an exact match, you can start your pattern
with a caret and end it with a dollar sign.
Now, we have isolated the header of the file,
but we want everything except that.
Luckily, grep has a handy option that inverts matching.
That option is dash V.
The dash V option makes grep display any lines
that do not match the pattern supplied.
Now that we've removed the header, we can send it to cut.
Another option is to perform the cut first,
then remove the header.
I don't like this as much
because cut alters the output first,
making the header change too, but it does work.
So, we can do this.
That's what we get.
That contains the header.
And that removes the header.
By the way, cut only handles single character delimiters.
This is fine in most cases, but there might be occasions
where you would want or need to split
on multiple characters.
Take this example.
At first glance, you might think,
oh, I can just split this on the colon.
Let's try that and see what happens.
That leaves the string data,
which really should be considered part of the delimiter.
It's not part of the actual data itself.
It's a pointer to the real data.
What you would really like to do is this.
But as you can see, that doesn't work.
We can do that with awk however.
Now I'm not saying that this is the only way
to handle this situation, but it is one way,
plus it gives me a chance to briefly cover awk.
Every good shelf scripter should
at least be aware of awk.
Let me just give you the answer first
and then I'll explain it to you in just a second.
This is an entire awk program on a single line.
The dash capital F option allows you
to specify a field separator.
We're telling it to use data colon as the field separator.
The entire program is contained in the next set
of single quotes.
The braces in awk mean an action.
This makes awk do things or take actions.
The action we want awk to take is to print.
As you probably have figured out by now,
dollar two represents the contents of the second field.
So, dollar sign one is the data in the first field,
dollar sign two is the data in the second field
and so on and so forth.
Let's go back to a previous cut example.
So here, we're displaying the first and third fields
from the ETC password file.
To do something very similar in awk, you can do this.
Here, you see that awk separates dollar sign one
and dollar sign three with a space.
That's because the comma in the print statement
represents the output field separator.
By default, the output field separator is the space.
In awk, if you leave out that comma,
then the fields just run together like this.
Let's go back to our print statement here.
I'll just execute this.
Awk has a special built-in variable named OFS.
That's capital OFS and that stands
for output field separator.
You can change the default from a space
to anything you would like by changing the value
of that variable.
To change a variable in awk, use the dash V option
and then perform the variable assignment.
So, to change OFS to a comma, we can do this.
So, we'll go here, add a dash V option,
set OFS equal to a comma and hit enter.
To be clear, it's definitely the OFS variable
that controls the output delimiter being displayed
and not the space used in the print statement.
We get the same results even if we do this.
Let me just add a bunch of spaces in between here
and some here, but when I hit enter,
you're gonna see that the data is exactly the same.
Instead of setting the OFS variable,
you can just give print a string to print like so.
The string we're going to print is a comma
and then we'll specify field three here.
If you want a space after the comma, for example,
just add that space in your string.
So, let me go back up here and just put a space
in my string and hit enter.
Awk's really lenient with spacing,
so this is the exact same command.
I can run dollar sign one right up against the string
and dollar sign three there.
Or I could put a lot of space in between these,
like this, and you'll see that
that doesn't really affect the execution of awk.
That may be clear to you or it may not.
Now, let's add some more text to our print statement here.
Let's do this.
Let's say we wanna print column one.
So, hopefully that gives you an idea
of how you can use strings with your print statements
and how the output field separator works.
So, if you remember earlier,
I said you can't control the order
of the data being displayed with cut,
so let's take this example.
It displays the fields in the order that they appear
from the input.
With awk, you can change it like so.
We just tell it to print the third field first
and then the first field.
Then you can combine it with any other additional strings
you want, so maybe we want to say this is the UID.
And we'll separate that with a semicolon login, like so.
In addition to dollar sign, dollar sign two,
dollar sign three and so on, awk gives us dollar sign NF,
which represents the number of fields found.
So to print the last field for every line in a file,
use dollar sign NF.
The password file is very uniform, so using dollar sign NF
isn't exactly groundbreaking here.
But if you're dealing with irregular data
that doesn't fit nicely into columns,
you can often see something common in each line
and then use dollar sign NF to shorten the data down
or to normalize that data.
Even if the number of fields is consistent in the data,
it might be easier to say, print the last field
or print dollar NF so you don't have to count the number
of fields first.
If you have a CSV file with 47 different fields or columns
and need the last one,
it's a lot quicker to use dollar sign NF,
instead of counting all those columns.
You can do some math with awk too,
just surround it in parentheses, so check this out.
What this command does is prints NF minus one,
which is of course the second to the last field.
So if they are seven fields in NF,
seven minus one is six,
then it prints the sixth field, for example.
Let's generate some irregular data.
You can see that what we really have here is a file
with four lines in it
and each line is made up of two columns,
separated by varying links of white space,
white space being spaces and or tabs.
It would be really hard to make sense of this data with cut
because it only allows us to split on a single character.
Even if we split on a space, we wouldn't end up
with what we wanted
because different lines have different number of spaces,
separating the columns.
Also, it wouldn't handle lines with tabs.
However, awk performs really well in this situation.
By default, the field separator for awk is white space
or if you say it another, maybe even more accurate way,
awk considers non white space characters
to be a field by default.
Awk easily handles extraneous spaces at the beginning
and and of each line, for example.
So really, those are the two times
that I personally use awk.
One is to use a delimiter that's comprised
of more than a single character
and the other time is to handle fields,
separated by white space.

--- Cut and Awk Demonstration Script: Open Network Ports ---

Instructor: Let's say we want a list of port numbers
that are open on our local system
without any extra data around it.
We just want, you know, number 22 to be displayed.
If we have SSH listening on port 22, for example.
The netstat command can display open ports
and instead of me showing you the man page for it
I'm just gonna walk you through the options
that we're gonna use today.
So we'll use the netstat command,
we'll use the dash N option to display numbers
instead of names.
So instead of displaying SSH or SSHD, it will display 22
for port 22.
We can use U to get information on UDP
and use T to get information on TCP
and dash L for listening ports.
So when we run that command, we have this output.
So in this particular case we have two lines
that comprise the header.
So, there are a couple of different ways to manage this.
One way would be to pipe it to grep and do grep dash V
which we know how to do, and then use a pattern like this.
So that will get rid of the first line.
And then we could continue this by using grep again
and we could get rid of the second line like this.
So that would leave us with just a pure data
without the header.
Now, I didn't really talk about this in grep
but what you can also do is use extended regular expressions
with a dash capital E option.
And that allows you to do something like this.
The pipe symbol in regular expressions is an or.
So if we match active or proto,
then we will have made a match.
And if we hit enter, you can see
that it gets the same results as using
those two grep commands above.
So it's a little bit shorter.
Some people like that.
Again, that's just one way to solve this problem.
Now if we're looking at the data that we have left,
there are some things in common with each line.
Some things that are not in common.
Some lines have TCP, some have TCP six
some UDP, some have listen, some have numbers and so on.
But one thing that is constant throughout here are colons.
So again, let me run this
without any decoration or filtering.
So we see the first two lines here do not have any colons.
So we could do something like this, grep for a colon,
and that would just display all the lines
that had a colon in it.
So in either way the goal here is to get the data
without the header.
Now let's just go ahead and proceed this way.
So, let me tell you that the data we're looking to extract.
So on line one we wanna pull out 22 because that's the port.
The second line there, we wanna pull out 25
which is the port for that.
At first thought, you may be thinking we can just split this
on a colon and print the second field.
Well, let's just try that and see what happens.
So, we'll do cut dash D for a colon as a delimiter
and we'll print the second field.
So that doesn't give us exactly what we want
because we have some extra data on some lines
and then on other lines we have blank lines.
So as you'll notice up here, this line has a three colon.
So when we do dash F two, we get nothing to return
because there's no data in the second field for that line.
So using the cut command in that way is not going to work.
Now if we go back to our original data here, we see
that all the ports that we're interested in are actually
in the fourth column, and that column being local address.
You can also see that these columns aren't separated
by a consistent number of spaces, for example.
So that rolls out cut, but we know that awk handles
these kind of white space situations well.
So we're gonna use that to pull out the fourth column.
So we'll narrow it down
to the fields that have the data that we're looking for
and then we'll print the fourth column,
even further narrowing down the data.
Again, we're left with a similar situation
where cut wouldn't work because on every line
the port numbers that we're after
are on the end of the line.
So :22, :25, :22, :25, :68, :7755 and :26314.
Now I have the answer there in my description of the data
which is every one of those is proceeded by a colon.
So we could actually use that as a delimiter
and just print dollar nf, which is the last field.
So if we have colon, colon, colon 22,
$NF is not gonna be the same as you know, some numbers
and then colon 22.
So in one case we have two fields.
In the other case we have more than two fields.
So let's use awk specify a colon as the field separator
and then what we'll do is just print the last field
on that line with $NF.
So now we are left with the data that we want.
Now if we just go back
and run our regular netstat command here
we can see that we're getting data from TCP and TCP six.
So TCPV four and TCPV six and the same with UDP.
So one way we can just get TCPV four
is to use the dash four option to netstat.
So we can do this
and that eliminates the TCP V six data there.
I'm not really using TCP V six
so I'm not really worried about that.
So let's break it down with this set of data.
The same idea, just extracting the ports that are listening.
So here again, we can use grep to either exclude the headers
or include the data, something that's common.
And we know that a colon is common in the data.
So that leaves us with the data.
And then we can do something like pull out the fourth field
with awk, and now in this particular case
we are left with two columns of data.
The first column being an IP address
and the second column being a port.
And those are separated by a colon.
So this would be an ideal situation where we could use cut.
So we could use cut dash D colon and get the second field.
Now we're left with 22, 25, 68 and 7755
on this particular system.
It may not look this way on your system.
We could also use the awk command in this situation as well.
It doesn't have to be cut.
We could use awk with a field separator of a colon
and then print $2, for example.
That works.
Or we could even go back to our original command
and use $NF for the last field.
Even though we know there's two fields,
this will still work.
So in this regard, it works with dash four
and without the dash four, it also works with TCPV six
and TCPV four.
Let's put this little command into a script
so we can have it when we need it later.
This way we don't have to solve this same problem again
in the future.
So I'm really just gonna copy this and put it in a script.
We're going to allow a dash four option
as we were working with netstat, so as to only display
the TCPV four ports.
So if I paste our command in here
this gets us 99% of the way.
The last piece here is if we pass in this $4.
The simplest way to do this would be to do this
just pass along whatever was passed to our script
to the netstat command itself without doing any checks.
So if this is a personal script that I'm not sharing
and I'm not worried about,
there's a good chance that I would leave it as is.
Let's try it out and then let's talk about some safeguards
that we could put in place here.
So we need to make sure it's executable
and then run it and it shows us our ports.
And then if we use dash four, then it limits those ports
to the V four protocols.
But if we do something like this,
then we get an error from netstat because dash blah
is not a valid option to netstat.
And then we could also send all kinds of different things
to netstat that we may or may not want to do.
So if you wanna be more exact,
you could do something like this.
If $1 is equal to dash four then and do something like that,
you can put a check like that.
I'm not gonna do that.
I'm gonna leave that as is
and that works for our situation here.
One last thing that isn't exactly related to scripting
but it's kind of useful to know.
It's the dash P option to netstat and it displays the pid
and the name of the program that has the port open.
But to get that information, you need to run netstat
with super user privileges so we can do this.
Actually, let's limit this data down a little bit.
What this shows is that we have SSHD
with a pid of 909 listening on port 22 on our system.
So that's just a handy command to know.
Okay, enough random tips.
Let's get back to what you learned here today.
In this lesson, you learned how to extract sections
from input using the cut command,
you learned how to cut based on bite, character, and field.
You also learned how to specify a delimiter
so you can easily work with CSV files, password files,
and any other type of data that is organized in columns.
You also learned about the carrot and dollar sign
anchor regular expressions and use them with a grep command.
Finally, we spent some time dealing with awk
and how it can handle multi character delimiters
and white space better than cut.

--- Sort and Uniq ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you'll learn how to sort data
using the sort and uniq commands.
Let's start out with some data
we already have on this system
which is in the etc/password file.
If you wanna sort the contents of a file alphabetically,
you can use the sort command.
Here you can see the line that starts with vboxadd is last
because it is last alphabetically.
If we look at the top of the output,
we'll see what's first alphabetically.
So let me just pipe this to less
and we see that adm is the first line
because A is the beginning of the alphabet
and for example, V is near the end of the alphabet.
Let me hit q to get out of that view.
If you want to reverse the order of the sort,
use the -r option.
So now the adm user is last instead of first
because we reverse the order.
Let's see what happens when we use sort with numbers.
I'm going to pull out the uid
in the etc/password file with the cut command.
So we'll use colon as a delimiter
and the uid is in the third field.
Now let's use the output of the cut command
as standard input to the sort command.
So here this is demonstrating that you don't have to run
sort directly against files.
It can accept standard input as well,
so we'll do this through a pipe.
This might not be what you expected.
The list is sorted but not numerically.
We have seven, 74, eight, 81, et cetera.
However when working with numbers,
you probably want a numeric sort so that seven comes first,
then eight, then 74, then 81 and so on.
To do that, we can use the -n option.
Now we have the smallest numbers first
and the largest numbers last.
Of course, you can reverse this order with the -r option.
Let's talk about the du command quickly.
It displays disk usage.
So let's see how much space is being used in /var.
By the way, there are gonna be some files in there
that are not readable by our normal users,
so I'm going to use sudo
to give us root privileges to look in there.
You will notice two columns.
The first column is a number that represents disk usage
and by default this number is in kilobytes.
The second column is the related directory
that is using that particular amount of storage.
Now let's perform a numeric sort to find out
which directory in /var is using the most space.
Of course, var itself is at the very bottom
since var contains all the sub directories within it,
so it uses the most space.
But the one before that, var/lib,
is the subdirectory in var that is using the most space,
and then above that, var/lib/rpm, var/lib/yum and so on.
If we look at the /var/lib directory,
it says it's using 92,744 kilobytes.
If you don't want to see the size in kilobytes,
you can use the -h option with du
which makes it print the sizes in a human readable format.
So now we see at the bottom 93 meg, 4K,
91 meg, 83 megabytes and so on.
If we try to sort this human readable data,
it's not really going to work how we would like it to work
and let's just demonstrate that now.
So at the bottom three lines, for example,
we have 93 megabytes, then 96 kilobytes,
and then 972 kilobytes
so it's not in the proper human readable order.
And we could even try this with a -n option
and again, we have 700K, 800 K, 972K
which are smaller amounts than those megabyte numbers
that we were just talking about.
Now the good news is that sort has a -h option
that performs a human numeric sort.
It understands that a number that ends in a G is a gigabyte,
a number that ends in a capital M is a megabyte and so on.
So now we have 93 M at the very bottom,
then 91, then 83, then five megabyte and so on,
and in the case,
the smaller sizes are up at the top of this sorted list.
So this sort -h works with human readable numbers.
In a previous lesson,
we used the netstat command to display open ports
and let's just walk through that again.
So we have netstat with the -n
to display numbers instead of port names,
U for UDP, T for TCP, and L for listening port.
So we enter that
and then we can see we have some data here,
and the data that we're most interested in
is in the fourth column.
And also we need to remove the headers
and so one way we talked about doing that
was to look for something common in all the lines,
and here a common thing is a colon.
So let me just script for a colon
and now we have that separated out.
The header is out of our way.
Again, like I said,
the data that we're after is in the fourth column
so we can use awk print dollar sign four to get that for us.
Now what we can do is get the port numbers with awk
because they're all in the last field,
fields being separated by colon in this instance.
So we can do this. awk -F, separate by colon,
and then print dollar NF.
So now we're left with a list of ports.
However they're not sorted,
so let's fix that.
Since they're all numbers,
we can use sort -n to sort numerically.
Now we have a sorted list,
but there are duplicate ports.
Sort can handle this situation too with its -u option
and -u stands for unique,
and it only displays a line
if it has not been previously displayed before.
So let's use -n, -u, and hit enter.
So above, we had 22, 22, 25, 25,
but the output below when we use the -u option
is 22, 25 and so on.
By the way, we don't have to combine the -u option
with the -n option.
We can use -u on its own.
So here we have a unique list of ports.
They're just not numerically sorted.
In addition to sorts -u option,
there's a command called "unique" that's spelled U-N-I-Q
which does something very similar to the -u option.
With uniq however, the lines coming to it have to be sorted
in order for it to work
because it only compares the current line
to the previous line.
So let me show you.
So let's do a sort -n
and then pipe that to uniq.
So now we have a unique list of ports with no duplicates
and just to show you that uniq doesn't work
with an unsorted set of lines, let's do this.
Let's remove out this sort here
and see what happens then.
So now we have 22, 25, 22.
Well, 22 is a repeat
and it didn't get extracted
because it's comparing 22 to 25.
But if we had sorted it, it would've been 22, 22
and then uniq would've noticed ah, that's a duplicate,
so I'm only gonna print the first one
and not the second one.
So at first glance, this might seem like an extra step.
Why would you ever want to use the uniq command
if you have to give it sorted data anyway
and sort already has a -u option?
Well, when you want to know how many occurrences
of each line there were, use uniq -c.
So let's go up here, our sort -n first to uniq,
and let's add the -c option.
The first column is the number of times
the line appeared in the output
followed by the line or the output itself.
So here we can see there were two instances of 22,
two instances of 25,
one instance of 68 and so on.
Let's say you wanna find out how many syslog messages
a program is generating
and you can do that by doing something like this.
So let's look at the data we're working with,
cat /var/log/messages.
And if we count the fields here,
one, two, three, four, five,
the fifth field contains the application name
or the program name that is writing to syslog.
So let's pull that out.
So here you can see systemd command,
then an su command, back to systemd.
At the bottom, you see systemd-login and so on.
So let's sort this list,
and now let's feed this list to uniq
and get a count.
So here we have some counts.
One occurrence of lvm, eight of network,
86 of network manager and so on,
but let's say we wanna sort this output.
So let's take the output from uniq
and run it back through sort,
so we can do this sort -n.
So now we know there were 342 messages
generated from the kernel,
310 from system D and so on.
You can apply this to all sorts of situations
where you want to know how many occurrences
of something there are.
For example, if you want to know what IPs
are hitting your web server the most,
you can strip out the IP addresses, sort them,
feed them to uniq -c,
and then you'll end up with a count of hits
by unique IP address.
While we're on the subject of counting,
I wanna spend just a quick minute here on the wc command.
You can think of it as standing for word count,
but it not only counts words.
It can count bytes, characters and lines.
Personally I end up using the line count option most often.
So let's provide the etc/password file
as an argument to the wc command.
The first column is the number of lines in the file.
The second column is the number of words
and the third column is the number of characters.
Just to be clear, wc really doesn't understand language.
It considers a word to be
any non-zero link sequence of characters
delimited by a white space.
We can make wc display a word count with -w.
Just a byte count with -c
and finally, just a line count with -l.
This tells us that there are 25 accounts on the system
because there's one account on each line
in the etc/password file.
Let's say you wanted to know how many accounts
are using the Bash shell.
First, you could display the lines that match
the pattern bash with the grep command.
All right, maybe this isn't the greatest example
because we can quickly count that there are two lines,
but let's say you have hundreds of accounts on a system
and there's a lot more output than you can just visually see
and recognize at that moment.
Then what you would want to do is let wc
count the number of lines in the output,
so you feed the output of the grep command
into wc with a -l option.
Now I know someone's gonna bring this up
if I don't put it in the video,
so I just wanna be clear
and say that in this particular situation,
you can also use the -c option for grep to perform account.
So we can do this grep -c for account
of how many lines contained bash in the etc/password file.
However, if you're not using
a command that performs account,
then you will end up having to pipe that output to wc
to perform the account for you.
Okay, let's get back to sorting.
There's one last option to sort
that I want to cover before we wrap things up
and that option is -k
which allows you to specify a sort key.
So far we've been sorting
on the very first bit of data in a line.
If you have data separated into multiple fields,
perhaps you wanna sort on a field other than the first one.
So let's go back to our password file,
so let's just cat it.
Now let's say we want to sort
the etc/password file based on uid
and uid is in the third column
with each column being separated with a colon.
By default sort uses white space as a field separator.
So to tell sort to use a colon,
we need to use the -t option.
Then we can use the -k option to provide a sort key.
The simplest sort key is a number
which represents the field to sort by.
So cat /etc/password, tell sort to use
colon as a field separator
and tell it to sort on the third field.
This third field happens to be comprised of numbers,
so we're going to use a numeric sort with -n.
Of course, we can combine this with other options
like -r for a reverse sort as well.
So as we all know, the root account has a uid of zero
and then you can see the account here
on this particular system with the uid of one is bin,
daemon has a uid of two,
admin has an id of three and so on.
Let's do a little demonstration on how to analyze
a web server log file using sort and uniq.
Let's say you wanna know how many times
a particular URL was visited.
First, let's look at what we have to work with.
So I have a access log file here and /vagrant.
My first goal is to extract the URL portion from the file.
Now there are multiple ways to do this.
However what I notice is that the URL
is contained within a set of quotation marks.
So let me split on that
and see where that takes us.
So we'll just feed this to the cut.
We'll use double quotation marks as a delimiter
and we'll print the second field and hit enter.
By the way, I didn't have to cat that into cut
like I did here.
What I could do is actually supply that file to cut.
Let me just do that here now,
cut -d -f two access log,
and we get the same result.
Now it looks like we're left with three columns of data
separated by a single space.
The second column has the URL in it
and let's pull that out.
So we can do this with a cut command as well.
Again, if you saw things differently
or think in a different way, that's perfectly fine.
Perhaps your mind went to counting the column numbers first.
Something like this, so let me just cat the access log here
and the first column is an IP address,
so that's column one, dash is column two,
another dash column three.
Okay, so one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
It looks like on the seventh column
is where the URL is contained,
and let's test that.
So let's do awk print dollar sign seven access_log.
Okay, and so we end up with the same data.
I just wanted to be clear
that there's no one exact perfect way to do this.
So just use whatever makes sense to you
and however you visualize the data.
Just keep extracting parts of it
and transforming it until it looks like what you need.
Okay, so let's continue on.
Let me go back to my command here using the cut.
Now I want to count the number of times
each one of those URLs was visited.
So I know I can do that with a uniq command
and I also know that I need to provide uniq
with sorted data first.
So what I'm gonna have to do is pipe this through sort
and then I can go back and pipe it through uniq
with the -c option to let it count it for me.
So now we have a count in column one
and the URL in column two.
So now what we can do is actually sort
this uniquely counted output with the sort command.
So let me bring up my command
and run this through sort -n.
So it looks like we had 1,271 visits to /wp-admin,
1,265 to /explore and so on.
Now let's say we only want to display
the top three most visited URLs
and we can do this simply by displaying
the last three lines of output with a tail command.
So we'll take this big long command
that we've been building up
and we'll pipe it yet again to another command,
and this command is tail -3 to print the last three lines.
So here you see the three most visited URLs
according to that access_log file.
Now I'm gonna go ahead and put that command into a script
so I don't have to solve this same problem again.
So I'm actually going to copy it.
Then I will edit my script here.
Start out with the shebang.
We'll tell what the script is doing.
So we'll let the user pass in the log file
and we wanna make sure that that log file exists,
so we can do a quick check here.
So this says if not exists LOG_FILE,
then we'll give them an error message.
Now I can paste my command that I copied earlier
and then I'll just change this to be the LOG_FILE variable.
Okay, let me save my changes, make my script executable,
and then give it a try.
So pass no data.
Well, it can't open anything.
Okay, it can't open asdf
because that doesn't exist.
So let's actually give it a path
to our file that does exist,
and here we go.
It runs the command against what we provided it,
giving us the three most visited URLs in that file.
So to recap, in this lesson,
you learned how to sort data using the sort command.
You learned how to use the -n option to sort numerically.
You also learned how to use the -r option
to reverse the sort order.
From there, you learned how to display only unique lines
using sort sort -u and the uniq command.
You also learned how to count items with the wc command.
Finally, you use the -t
and -k options to sort data based on a specific field.

--- Parsing Log Files - Exercise 6 - Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Parsing Log Files - Exercise 6 - Walkthrough ---

Instructor: For this shell scripting exercise
we're going to write a script named show-attackers.sh.
And this script is going to require a file be provided
as an argument.
And if a file is not provided or we can't read it
for some reason, then what we're going to
do is have this script display an error message
and exit with an exit status of one.
This script counts the number
of failed login attempts by IP address.
If there are any IP addresses
with more than 10 failed login attempts,
the number of attempts made, the IP address
from which those attempts were made,
and the location of that IP address will be displayed.
By the way
we're going to be using a command called a geoiplookup
to determine the location of that IP address.
We may or may not have covered
that in a previous demonstration or lesson
so just be aware of that command,
give it an IP address and it'll tell you where it thinks
that IP address originates from.
We're going to make this script produce output in CSV
and of course CSV stands for comma-separated values,
and we're going to give the output a header
of count comma IP comma location.
So here I am on a system
and the sample data that we're going to use
for this exercise is included in the course download.
I've already placed a copy of it
in the shared vagrant folder for this project.
So if I cd into forward slash vagrant
then I can see all the files that are
in that folder on my local physical machine.
The first thing I do when working on these types
of problems is to look at the data that I'm dealing with.
I wanna know what the input looks like first.
Then I can start to look
at ways to transform that data so that it's easy to work
with or so that it meets my requirements.
So let me just look at the contents of this file.
That's a lot of data.
One thing I notice a lot, or I see a lot of
are lines that say, failed password for root.
I'm going to bet
that people are not only trying to log in as the root user
but probably some other common users as well.
Let's see if that's the case.
So a common thing here on these lines for failed password
for root is the word failed with a capital F.
So let me just grep out that pattern,
grep Failed syslog sample.
Here on our screen I only see root,
I think I saw a variation or two above
when this output was scrolling by.
So let's exclude root to see what else we get.
If we look at the last five lines or so of output
we see login attempts for the ubuntu user, the admin user
the lp user, the admin user again, and a user named a.
What I notice is
that the lines aren't exactly in the same format.
What sticks out to me here is
that the words invalid user exist
on most of those lines here
but they don't exist on all of the lines.
For example, the lp line.
That third line from the bottom here says for lp from
but if you look at the next line, it says
for invalid user admin from.
The important piece of information that we want to isolate
on each of these lines is the IP address.
One way we could do that is to split the line
on the word from.
So let's grep for failed.
We'll pipe this to awk
and use the word from as a field separator.
And actually I'm gonna use from space
so we don't end up with that extra space here.
And then we'll just print the second part of that.
So we should end up with the IP address
and the rest of the information on the line.
Let's see what happens.
Now we're left with four columns
all separated by a single space.
The first column is the IP address.
The second column is the word port
followed by the actual port number itself.
And then finally the protocol, which here is ssh2.
Now from here we can print the first column
either with cut or awk.
So let me just do this
pipe this to awk print dollar sign 1
and that gives us the IP address.
Or instead of using awk here, we can use cut, cut dash d,
and we're going to separate on a space,
so that's our delimiter, and we want the first field.
And so we get the same output.
So let's go back and talk
about another way to solve this problem.
If we count the number of fields from the left to right
we end up with the IP address being
in different fields depending on whether
or not the user was valid or invalid.
But if we count the number of fields
from the right to left, or from the end
of the line towards the beginning of the line,
you'll see that the IP address is always the fourth column
from the end.
That means we can use awk's special variable of nf,
which represents the total number of fields on a line
and then do a little subtraction to end
up with the IP address.
So here we can do this
awk print
and then we're going to take the number of fields
and subtract three from that number, and we should end
up with a column that has the IP address in it.
So I've demonstrated two ways to extract the IP address.
There are other ways, and if you came up with another way
that's totally fine as long
as you have extracted the IP address
from all those lines in that file.
So this approach that I used here makes the most sense
to me and it seems a little bit simpler,
so that's what I'm going to use going forward.
We know we can use the unique command to count the number
of occurrences of a line.
We also know that unique requires sorted input.
So let's first sort our list
of IP addresses and then send it to unique.
So I'm just going to sort this list.
It doesn't have to be a numeric sort,
it can be any sort as long
as it's sorted, unique, doesn't care.
So then what we can do here is pass it into unique
and tell unique to count the occurrences of each line.
And of course, the only thing that are
on these lines are IP addresses.
So it'll count the occurrences of these IP addresses.
Now that we have this bit of data
let's sort this numerically.
So we'll just pipe this to sort dash n.
Actually, let's reverse this order
and put the most failed attempts at the top of the list.
So we can just add a dash r
to our sort command to reverse it,
and we end up with the most failed login attempts first
and the least failed login attempts last.
By the way
this sample log file contains entries from just one day.
That means there were 6,749 failed login attempts
from the IP address of 182.100.67.59.
Now, this could mean a couple of different things.
The first thing that comes
to my mind is someone was performing a brute force attack.
However, another possibility is that something is wrong
with an account that we're using
for some sort of automated process.
Perhaps one of our servers
in another data center is connecting
to the system over ssh to do some work,
but maybe the ssh key was accidentally changed
or deleted, or the password for the account was changed,
or some other configuration issue has cropped up here.
So what I'm going to do is find the location
of this IP address.
Now, there's a command called geoiplookup that returns
to the location of an IP address and so let's run that now.
That IP address is associated with China.
If you happen to have servers in China or people who work
from China, this still might not be an attack
but just a misconfiguration of some sort.
However, let's assume our people only work
in the United States, Canada, and Europe.
Also, let's assume our data centers are located
in New York, London, and Amsterdam.
In this particular case
I would interpret this activity as a brute force attack.
It would be nice to have this location information
for any IP addresses who fail to log
into our servers more than let's say 10 times.
If we look at the data we have, we have two columns,
account in column one and an IP address in column two.
We could loop through this output and test to see
if the account is greater than 10, and then if it is
perform the geoiplookup on that associated IP address.
Now let's take the command we worked
out here on the command line, put it
into a script and start working on this last bit of logic.
We'll give our script a header here.
What I'm going to do is actually
use a variable to define our limit,
and that way if we decide our limit changes in the future
we can quickly update that variable
at the top of our script.
Like I said, I'm going to use a variable.
You could actually create this script with an option
and have the user specify that if you'd like,
but I'm just gonna keep it simple
and leave it at a hardcoded number here.
However, what we are going to do is ask the user to
provide us a file.
And so that will be the first argument on the command line.
And if it doesn't exist, we need to tell them about it.
Okay, this is our little check here.
If the file doesn't exist or we can't open it or read it
then we're going to tell them
that we can't open the file they provided
or it's gonna be blank if they don't provide a file.
And then we're going to exit with a exit status of 1.
Now, what we need to do is loop
through this data that we generated here.
So I'm just going to paste that command we worked out,
and you remember that the command generated
two columns of data, the first column being a count
and then the second column being an IP address.
So what we can do is pipe this to while read
assign the first column to the variable named count
and the second column to a variable named IP.
So here we can just do a simple check here.
If the count
is greater than the limit we set
then we're going to determine a location.
We'll use that geoiplookup command
against the IP address
and then we'll display this information.
One of my common typing mistakes here is to
put the dollar sign outside
of the quotation marks instead of inside,
and I've corrected that here.
Let's see if I have any more.
I'm just gonna go to the top
of the script real quick and look.
Okay, that looks good.
Let's go ahead and save our changes and test out our script.
We'll run it against the sample data we have here.
So this is a good start
but we need to clean up this output a bit.
First, let's remove
that little bit of redundant information there.
GeoIP Country Edition.
Let's remove those words from the geoiplookup output.
We could use cut and use a comma as the field separator,
but that would leave us space before the country.
However, we could use awk and include the space
after the comma as the field separator,
so let's do that instead.
While we're here let's turn this output
into CSV output and let's display a header.
We'll display the count, the IP address,
and the location here for our header.
Now we're going to change this geoiplookup output.
We're going to pipe that to awk
with a field separator of a comma and a space.
And then that will leave us
with the data we need here in the second field.
And also while I'm here
I'm going to change this echo command here to have commas
in between this data.
And that looks good.
Let's see what this brings us.
Show-attackers syslog sample.
Okay, great.
So we have a header of count IP location.
Then the first line, we have a count of 6749
with an IP of 182 100 67 dot 59, and a location of China.
So this is exactly how we want our output to be displayed.
While we're here, let's make sure
that our little file test that we wrote
at the top of our script works.
So let's provide some fake data to it.
Okay, that looks good.
We get an exit status of 1, and let's make sure
that if we don't provide a file that this also works.
Sure enough, it says,
Hey, I can't open a file that doesn't exist.
And we also get an exit status of 1.
So this completes the exercise walkthrough for this script.

--- Sed ---

Instructor: In this lesson,
you'll learn how to use the most important features
of the sed command.
Sed stands for stream editor
and it's used for, well, editing streams.
You might not be familiar with the term stream,
but if you performed any I/O redirection or piping,
you've been using streams.
You can think of a stream as the data that travels
from one process to another through a pipe
or from one file to another as a redirect
or from one device to another.
So you can think of standard input
as the standard input stream,
standard output as the standard output stream,
and standard error as the standard error stream.
By the way, these data streams are typically textual data.
The sed command is used to perform
basic text transformations on an input stream.
For example, you can use sed
to substitute some text for other text,
remove lines, append text after given lines,
and insert text before certain lines.
Sed differs from other editors such as Vim,
Emacs and nano in that it's used programmatically.
Of course you can substitute some text for other texts,
remove lines, append text after given lines,
and insert text before certain lines using Vim,
but that requires interaction from a human.
Sure, you can write macros to perform
these functions in Vim,
but you have to have someone to start Vim
and then execute the macros.
With sed, you can programmatically perform these edits
without the need of interaction,
and this makes sed ideal to be used
in shell scripts, for example.
The most common use of sed
is to act as a command line version of find and replace.
I'm going to use this particular application of sed
to teach you the basics of the sed command.
Notice that I sed sed command.
Sed is a standalone utility and not a shell built-in.
We can prove this by using the type shell built-in.
So you can see that when you type sed and press Enter,
the user bin sed program will be executed.
Of course, for standalone commands,
you can use man to get help and documentation
on how to use that command.
So let's quickly look at sed man page.
As we've already mentioned, sed is a stream editor.
The man page says it's used for filtering
and transforming text.
If we look at the synopsis section of the man page,
we can see that we can execute sed with zero or more options
followed by a sed script
and optionally followed by one or more input files.
So let's exit out of this man page by typing q
and get to our first sed command.
Let's create a file to work with real quick.
Let's do this.
Let's make sure our content is made it in the file.
I'm sure it did,
but let's just prove it here by cating that file.
So sure enough it says
Dwight is the assistant regional manager,
and that's the text that's stored in manager.txt.
Now as I sed a minute ago,
the most common use of sed
is to act as a command line version of find and replace.
Let's say you want to replace the text of assistant
with a text of assistant to the.
To do that, you would use the substitute command in sed.
The substitute command is represented by the character s.
So let me show you how that works.
We'll start out with our sed command.
Next, we'll put our sed script and single quotes.
We'll tell sed to perform a substitution
by specifying the letter s.
After the s, we use a forward slash
followed by the text we want to substitute
and then another forward slash.
In this case, that text is assistant.
By the way, the forward slash is acting as a delimiter
and the text between the forward slashes
is called the search pattern.
This search pattern is actually a regular expression.
So you can make very advanced searches if you want to.
In this case, we're keeping things simple
to demonstrate the concept of finding
and replacing some text using sed.
Next, we'll type the text
that is going to replace the previously specified text.
We want to change assistant to assistant to the,
so we'll type this.
Next, we'll close our substitution
with another forward slash.
We'll call this text the replacement string.
That is the end of our sed script.
So we'll supply the closing single quote.
Finally, we'll tell sed what file to use as input.
In this example, that file is manager.txt.
When we execute the command,
you can see that the text of assistant
has been replaced with assistant to the.
The original text
is Dwight is the assistant regional manager.
The text displayed after being transformed
by our sed command is Dwight is the assistant
to the regional manager.
Notice that I used the word displayed.
I used it very intentionally here.
In this example,
sed is not altering the contents of the file,
it's just sending its output via standard out
which is our terminal.
We can prove that the original file is unaltered
by looking at its contents.
Sed can alter the contents of the specified file
and we'll get to that shortly.
But first, let's look at another example of using sed
to find and replace text.
Let's use this text to work with.
Let's change the text of my wife to sed.
In this example, we didn't reuse any of the texts
that we searched for.
Instead, we completely replaced it with brand new text.
It should probably go without saying.
That sed is case sensitive by default.
So here's an example of that.
Notice that the lowercase text of my wife
was not substituted.
That's because it wasn't an exact match.
If nothing matches, sed doesn't perform any alterations
and therefore the text is returned without alteration.
If you want to perform a case in sensitive search,
you'll need to supply a flag.
So really the format of the sed s command is this.
You have s, a forward slash,
and then a search-pattern,
another forward slash to terminate the search-pattern,
and the replacement-string, another forward slash,
and then any flags you want to use.
So I'm just gonna type Ctrl + C here
because I don't want to execute that command.
I just wanna quit that command line there
without running it.
So we're going to supply the i flag to the command
which you can think of as standing for insensitive.
Now the text gets replaced
because you told sed to ignore case.
By the way and it strikes me as a little funny,
you can also use a capital I as the flag
to do this insensitive case matching.
So this command works as well.
Let's add some more lines to our love.txt file
and see how sed handles that.
Notice that I've used two greater than signs
and that causes text to be appended to the file.
If I just used one, it would've truncated the file.
But I was careful here and used two.
So we can look at our contents here,
and sure enough there are two lines in that file.
So let's go ahead and add a third line.
Okay, there it is, love.txt with three lines.
Now let's try the replacement command again.
What happens is that sed reads one line from the file
and executes the sed commands in quotes against that line.
Next, it moves on to the next line and does the same thing
until it reaches the end of the file.
You'll see that my wife was replaced by the word sed
on lines one and three.
Line two was unchanged
because our search pattern of my wife
was not found on that line.
Let's add yet another line to this file
to demonstrate another important concept.
Now let's run the replacement command again.
Notice that on the last line,
only the first occurrence of my wife was replaced.
It says, I love sed and my wife loves me.
Also, my wife loves the cat.
By default, sed just replaces the first occurrence
of the search pattern on a line.
To override this behavior, we'll need to use the g flag.
You can think of g as standing for global
as in a global replace.
Now the last line says that I love sed and sed loves me.
Also, sed loves the cat.
If you want to replace the second occurrence
of the search pattern, use the number two as a flag.
If you want to replace the third occurrence, use three;
the fourth, use four, et cetera, et cetera.
So let's do this.
This time, none of the first occurrences
of the text my wife were replaced
but only the second occurrences were.
On the line where only one occurrence of my wife existed,
that line was unaltered
because there was no second occurrence.
On the last line where my wife appears three times,
only the second one was changed.
By the way, when I'm seeing things like changed,
I don't mean that the original file has changed.
Again, the contents of the file remain the same.
Sometimes you don't want to just see the output
displayed to your terminal,
but instead you want to save that output.
One way to do that is to redirect the output
of the sed command to a file.
Of course this isn't anything unique with sed,
it's just how Linux works with any command.
So let's create a new file called my-new-love.txt.
Again, the original file is left unaltered.
So there you have it.
The original file with the original text
and the new file with a redirected and altered text.
If you want sed to alter the file,
use the -i option to sed
which you can think of as in place editing.
If you want sed to make a backup copy of the file
before it alters it,
supply some text right after the -i
and sed will append that text to the copy of the file.
So now we have our original file named love.txt
and another one named love.txt.bak.
Sed has performed an in-place edit of the original file.
So let's look at that now.
So there you can see where sed has replaced the text
of my wife where appropriate given the command we ran.
If we look at the backup file,
we'll see that it has the original text in it.
It's important that you don't use a space
after the -i option.
If you do, you'll get an error.
So let me demonstrate that here.
So this is what not to do.
Okay, notice I'm using a space.
This is going to cause an error.
So sure enough we get an error.
That is one little gotcha you can avoid.
So just do not use a space after -i.
If you only want to save the lines where matches were made,
you can use the w flag followed by a file name.
So let's do this.
Let's change love to like.
We'll do a global replace
so that no matter how many times love appears on the line,
it will get replaced by like.
And then we'll use the w flag and a file name after it.
So we'll use like.txt,
and then the file we're going to use as input is love.txt.
In this example, sed displays the entire contents
of the love.txt file to the screen
with any replacements it made
and it created a new file named like.txt
that only contains the lines
where the replacements were performed.
So let's look at that like.txt file now.
While we're talking about input and output,
I would like to point out that sed can be used
in a pipeline instead of specifying a file to work on.
The simplest example would be to cat a file
and pipe that to sed like this.
That is the exact same thing as doing this.
This is a very common pattern with Linux commands
where they can be given a file to operate on
or they can use the data sent through a pipe to operate on.
We've seen this with other commands
such as cat, awk, sort, uniq, and others.
Command pipelining is very powerful
because you string as many commands together is needed
to make the data look the way you want it to.
I'm going to generate some text to work on
with an echo command.
Let's say we want to change /home/jason
to be /export/users/jasonc.
The challenging thing about this is that
the strings we want to manipulate
have forward slashes in them
and we've been using forward slashes
as a delimiter with sed.
One way to get around this is to escape the forward slashes.
I'm going to show you a better way in just a second,
but let's see how we would do it with escaping first.
Now to escape a character,
simply proceed it with a back slash.
So we're starting our search pattern
with a forward slash,
but the next forward slash isn't a delimiter
so it needs to be escaped.
So we're gonna use a back slash
to escape this forward slash.
Same thing again here.
So now we end our search pattern with a forward slash.
And again our next pattern starts with a forward slash,
so we have to escape it here.
Again, we're escaping the forward slash and yet again.
And then finally, we're closing out our command here.
That feels like a lot to keep straight
and it's easy to make a typing mistake in this situation.
A nice feature was sed is that you can use any character
as the delimiter, so let's use a pound sign instead.
So the first character that follows the s
will be treated as the delimiter
no matter what that character is.
So let me give you an example here.
I'm going to use a pound sign
and now sed will treat that pound sign as the delimiter.
So now I can just go ahead
and specify the text I want to use here
in my search pattern, which is /home/jason.
Close that search pattern.
And now the replacement string is /export/users/jasonc.
And then we'll close out the replacement text there
with a pound sign
and the single quote finishes our sed script command there.
So let me hit Enter.
And so as you can see that works as well.
Just to prove that any character works as a delimiter,
let's use another character.
How about a colon this time?
Okay, that works as well.
So you get the idea.
If you need to use forward slashes in your search pattern
or replacement text, choose a different delimiter
other than the forward slash.
All right, so enough with actually performing substitutions.
Let's take a second here to talk about
when you would actually want to perform them.
One idea is to use templates or template files.
For example, if you are constantly deploying new websites
and use the same configuration except for the website name,
then it would be a good idea to create a template file
that contains all the standard configuration
and a placeholder for the website name.
Then you could use sed to simply
replace all the placeholders with the actual website name
when you're ready to deploy it.
Another example of when you could use
sed substitution feature
is when you are migrating from one server to another
or when you are using a restore of one server
to create another new server.
In this example, you would need to find and replace
the old host name with a new one
for all the files in the etc directory.
Files such as etc host and maybe etc host name
and there could be others
depending on that system's configuration.
Yet another example would be
when you are copying configuration
for a given service from one host to another.
You might find yourself doing this
especially if you are working on clusters.
You would just copy the configuration from one host
to the new host that you are adding to the cluster.
Typically, you'll need to change the host name
in the configuration file
and you could use the sed to do this for you.
Sed would be especially helpful
if that host name appeared many times in that configuration.
Okay, so that's pretty much it
with a sed substitution command.
Let's say we want to remove or delete some lines with sed.
Well, how you do that is with the d command.
Let's review the contents of our love.txt file.
Let's say we want to remove the line
that says this is line two.
All you have to do is come up with a search pattern
that will match that line and not the other ones.
So we could use a search pattern of this
because the word this only appears
on the line we want to delete.
Our search pattern is This
and the command is d.
So to be clear here, the syntax is a delimiter.
And by default, we use the forward slash as the delimiter
followed by the search pattern and a closing delimiter.
Again, this is a forward slash.
And finally a d, which tells sed to delete the line
that matches the provided pattern.
We can see that this worked as our desired line is gone.
Let's say we want to remove all the lines
that contain the search pattern of love.
Here's how we would do that.
So now all the lines that match love are gone.
Sometimes when I'm working
with a configuration file with many lines,
I like to strip out the comments and blank lines
to compact the output.
That way I can see just the configuration and nothing else.
It makes it easier to read, at least it does for me.
I'm going to create an example configuration file
to demonstrate this concept with.
So this sample made up configuration file
is just a few lines long,
but you can easily imagine one with many, many more lines.
First, let's remove the comments.
Remember that the search pattern
is actually a regular expression.
In regular expressions,
the caret symbol matches the beginning of a line.
It matches a position and not a character.
So if we want to match all the lines
that start with a pound sign, we use caret pound sign.
This makes sure we don't accidentally delete lines
that have actual configuration at the beginning of a line,
but have a comment later on that same line.
So now we have our configuration file
without the comment lines,
but we still have the blank lines.
To delete a blank line,
we'll use another regular expression.
Again, the caret symbol matches the beginning of the line.
The dollar sign matches the end of the line.
So caret dollar sign matches a line.
If the beginning of the line is immediately followed
by the end of the line.
Sed another way caret dollar sign matches blank lines.
So we know how to do the two things we want to do,
but now we need to do them at the same time.
We need to combine them.
To use multiple sed commands or sed expressions,
we can separate them with semicolons.
For each line, sed will perform the first command
which deletes lines that start with a pound sign
and then the second command
which deletes blank lines.
To show you that you can combine
different types of commands,
let's perform a substitution.
Let's change Apache to HTTPD.
So that particular command did three things.
It deleted lines that started with a pound sign,
it deleted blank lines,
and it also changed Apache to HTTPD.
Just to be thorough,
I wanna share with you another way
to execute multiple sed commands.
Mainly I wanna show you this
just in case you happen to see it in a script
or in someone else's work.
That way, you'll know exactly what is going on.
So the other way to do this
is to use multiple -e options to sed
one for each sed command to execute.
Sed also allows you to specify a file
containing the sed commands.
So let's demonstrate this now.
I'm going to create a file using the echo command here.
Of course you can use an editor if you want to.
So what we've done here is put one sed command per line.
Now we'll use the -f option
and supply the path to the file
that has the sed commands in it.
So we can do this sed -f, and then the path to our file
and then the path to the file that we want to use as input.
So here again, we get the exact same result.
Before we wrap up this lesson on sed,
let's take a look at using addresses.
An address determines on what lines the sed command
will be executed on.
If no address is given,
the command is performed on all lines.
An address is specified before the sed command.
The simplest of addresses is a line number.
Here are the contents of our sample configuration file
to refresh our memories.
Here's an example that will only execute
against line two of the file.
As you can see, the search pattern of Apache
was replaced by HTTPD only on the second line.
There's also a match on the last line of the file,
but that was left alone
because it didn't match the address of line two.
By the way, some people do not use spaces after the address.
So this is the same command without that extra space.
You can also use a regular expression
as an address to match lines.
Let's say you want to replace Apache with HTTPD,
but only on lines that contain the word Group.
As you can see, Apache was changed to HTTPD
only on the line that also contained the word Group.
You can also specify a range
by separating two address specifications with a comma.
For example, if we wanted to change the word run to execute
but only on lines one through three, we would do this.
There was only one occurrence of run
from lines one through three and it was changed.
The occurrence on line four was not.
So let's extend the range to include line four.
Again, you can use regular expressions
instead of line numbers.
Let's say we want to change run to execute
starting with the line that matches pound sign user
and ending at the next blank line.
So here's how we would do that.
So there you can see that every instance of run
that was in between the line that started with pound user
and the next blank line was exchanged with a text execute.
Of course, there was only one match
so only one substitution was made.
But you get the point.
You could specify a large portion of the file
if you wanted to.
One starting point with another starting point
as your address and then change everything in that section
while leaving everything else alone.
It's very powerful to use addresses with sed.
In this lesson, you learned the most common use case of sed
which is to perform text substitutions.
You learned how to replace specific occurrences
as well as how to replace all occurrences
of the search pattern.
In addition to finding and replacing text,
you learned how to delete text with the d command.
From there, you learned how to save
the alterations performed by sed
as well as how to make backups of the original file
so that your data is safe.
Next, you learned three different ways
to execute multiple sed commands on the same set of data.
Finally, you learned how to use addresses
to work on very specific sections of input.

--- Configuring a Mini Network and Scripting for Remote Systems ---

Instructor: In this lesson, you'll learn how to create
a small network of virtual machines
that will simulate a company network.
You'll also learn how to configure SSH key authentication
and execute commands on remote systems via SSH.
What we're going to do here
is actually create three virtual machines.
We are going to name the first one admin01,
the next one server01,
and the third one server02,
and I may call those server one and server two to be brief.
This type of setup is very common
where you'll have one server
acting as your main administration server
that will act as the base of operations if you will
and then several other servers on your network
that are used to do the work for the business.
They could be web servers, database servers,
or what have you.
So here I'm on my local system with my terminal open.
I'm gonna go to shellclass
and I'm gonna create a new directory for this project,
I'm gonna create a directory called multinet.
So we're gonna be using multiple machines
here on this miniature network,
so I'm just gonna call this multinet.
Change directory in there,
and let's go ahead and initialize our Vagrant project,
vagrant init, and then supply a box name.
Now I just need to edit the Vagrantfile
and make some changes.
I'm going to add some configuration
right here below the config.vm.box line,
and what I'm gonna do is say config.vm.define
and we're going to define our first server of admin01
and put that same name here in pipes.
Give this an IP address
and then close our statement for this particular host.
So this will create one virtual machine.
Now let's go ahead
and create a stanza for our next virtual machine.
We'll call this one server01.
Give it the hostname of server01.
Then we're going to pretty much duplicate this,
but make sure we change the ones to twos here
and also make sure we change this IP address here.
Okay, so now we have these three stanzas
for our three different servers.
We have admin01, server01, and server01.
So now what we're going to do is run vagrant up.
Now when you're working
with a Vagrant multimachine setup like this,
when you run a command,
it runs that command against all the systems
unless you specify which one of the virtual machines
that you're working with.
So if we run vagrant up,
it's going to bring up all three of those systems.
If we run vagrant up admin01,
it's only going to bring up that system, for example.
So we'll go ahead and run vagrant up
and let Vagrant create all three of those systems.
By the way, this is going to take an extra few minutes
since we're creating three servers here at once.
Okay, now that the vagrant up command has been executed,
we should have three running virtual machines
and we can check that with vagrant status.
If you get an error after you run vagrant up
or if you run vagrant status
and not all three of your virtual machines are running,
you need to check the contents of your Vagrantfile.
And let me just jump in the Vagrantfile really quick
and talk about a couple things that I've seen in the past,
some little gotchas if you will
and how to get around those.
So let's look at our Vagrantfile here
and one thing I've seen happen
is, for example, on the IP address line,
I've seen people accidentally forget
the closing double quote,
so that is a common mistake.
I see people miss a comma here.
That is a mistake I've seen before.
I've also seen some students do this.
They'll use capital IP instead of lowercase ip.
So every little thing you see here,
every little bit of syntax,
it's not like salt and pepper or some seasoning.
It is exact and specific.
It has to be exactly this way.
It's not there for a random purpose.
Also another thing I've seen here
when someone gets to this third stanza,
maybe they did like I did
and they copied the first one,
but they forget to change this.
So they have this situation
where they're really trying to define server two,
but in the code block here
they're referencing something
that does not correspond to that,
so it needs to be the same here as well.
And I've also seen this happen
which is people leave off
this first bit of information here.
Just use VM hostname and so on like that,
and so that is also not gonna work.
So again, if you run vagrant status
and not all three of your machines are up
or the vagrant up command didn't complete successfully,
these are some things that you can check.
So I'm gonna jump out of here right now
and now what I'm gonna do is run vagrant ssh.
Now in the past we've just been working with one system
and when we run vagrant ssh,
we get connected to that one virtual machine.
Well, since we have three virtual machines
if we run vagrant ssh,
Vagrant doesn't know which one we're trying to connect to
so we have to be very specific
and tell it which machine we're going to connect to.
And so what we're gonna do is connect here to admin one,
our administration server, and start working there.
So I'm just gonna type in vagrant ssh admin01.
Now that we're in this virtual machine,
I'm gonna see if I can ping those other virtual machines
on the network here just to see
if they're responding on our network.
So I'm gonna do ping -c three.
That means send a count of three packets to 10.9.8.11.
Sure enough, we're getting responses and that worked.
I'm gonna do it to .12.
Okay, three packets transmitted,
no packet loss, that looks good.
So this particular admin virtual machine
can communicate over the network
to server one and server two.
Now when attempting to resolve a name to an IP address,
for example, if we want to pinging server01,
what happens is that the etc host file
is checked first by default
and if no entry is found there,
then DNS is queried.
Since the main point of this class is shell scripting,
we're not gonna spend the time to set up a DNS server
for our three little virtual machines here.
We're just gonna add our two servers to the etc host file
so we can talk to them by name.
Now if we look at the etc host file,
you can see that the format of the file
is an IP address followed by a name
and then any other additional names
that you want to access those systems by.
Since I'm a normal user,
I'm going to actually use a command called tee
in conjunction with sudo to append some lines to etc host.
So let's look at the tee command really quick.
The tee command reads from standard input
and writes to standard output in files.
It pretty much passes anything
that it receives out the other direction,
and so what's useful about this is the -a option
which allows you to append
to existing files instead of overriding.
So how this comes in useful in our situation
is that we're going to append
to an existing file of etc hosts,
and so we're gonna use the -a option.
Now if you don't append to a file,
it just overwrites the file.
It clobbers it if you will.
So the reason why this is important
is again, we're a normal user
and what we want to do is do something like this.
We're gonna echo this, 10.9.8.11 server01,
'cause that's the IP address of server one,
and we want to send that to the bottom
of the etc host file.
So what happens here is when we execute the command,
tee sends that to standard output
and it also appends it to the etc host file.
So let's do the same thing again here with our server two.
Now if we cat etc host,
we can see those two entries
are at the bottom of the etc host file.
If you're trying to append some data to a file,
you may think oh, I can just run sudo echo,
but it may not do what you expect it to do.
So let's just try it out really quick.
I'll do sudo echo test
and then try to append that to etc host.
And it says etc hosts permission to denied,
and I get people saying
hey, I ran that with root permissions.
Why can't I update etc host?
Well, what happens is you're actually executing
the echo command as root with sudo there,
but the redirection takes place as your normal user
and that is why you cannot append to a file.
So sure you're running the echo command as root,
but you're not doing the redirection as root.
So that's why you can use sudo in the way we did there.
Pipe that output to sudo tee -a
and then that way you can do things like append data
to files on the command line without an editor
and also without switching to the root user.
Okay, so that's maybe an interesting aside,
maybe it was totally boring to you,
but hopefully you got a little something out of that.
Okay, so let's move on.
So now we have entries in etc host file,
so in theory that means we can communicate
to those systems by name.
So we can do this ping -c three server-1
and you can see 10.9.8.11
is the IP address that it's communicating with,
and of course, that is what is in the etc host file
and that does correspond to server one,
and we can do the same thing here.
Let's just send one packet to server two
and sure enough, it sends it to 10.9.8.12.
As I said earlier,
we're going to be using this virtual machine
as our main administration server.
We'll be running commands from here that will execute
on the other virtual machines on the network.
So I want to SSH into
those other two systems without a password
and the first thing we need to do is create an SSH key pair
if we would like to do that.
So we'll just run ssh-keygen to generate a key
and we're just going to accept the default here.
Sure, that's a fine place for the key.
We're not going to use a passphrase
and what this will allow us to do is SSH
without being prompted for a password
every time we want to connect to a server.
So we'll just hit enter a couple of times
and now our key is created.
So the next step is to put the public key
on the remote system
and there's a handy command that will help you do that,
and it's called ssh-copy-id.
So we're going to ssh-copy-id to server01.
Here we're connecting as the vagrant user
over SSH to server01
and it's saying hey, here's the fingerprint of that host.
Do you accept it
and do you think it's the where you're trying to go?
In theory, we could check this key
on the other side and confirm,
but we're on a test system.
I'm sure this is gonna be safe,
so we'll just hit yes here.
So here it's prompting us for vagrant's password
and the password for Vagrant is vagrant.
Okay, it says it added a key over there
so let's check it out, ssh server01,
and you can see that our prompt changed to server01.
So we are on the other VM over SSH,
so now I'm just gonna exit out with exit.
And if I wanted to, for example, run a command
over there on server01, I could do this,
ssh server01 and then specify the command.
So let's run the hostname command over on server01.
So what happens is we connect to server01,
then execute the command,
and then we're disconnected
and we're back to our initial system.
So it's like we never connected over there,
but we really did.
It just wasn't an interactive login.
So we need to do the same thing with server two.
So ssh-copy-id server02.
Accept the key, enter our password,
and we should be good to go.
Let's just test it really quick, ssh server02.
All right, we get the server01 prompt,
we're over on that virtual machine
and I'll just type exit here.
So now this allows us to do things like this.
Let's create a little for loop
right here on the command line.
So I'm gonna do for N in one and two.
Do ssh to server0 N
and then run a command over there, hostname and done.
So sure enough, what happens in this little simple for loop
is the first time round, N is assigned the value of one
and of course, server0$N evaluates to server01,
and then so that's when we SSH to server01,
run the hostname command.
Then the next time around the loop, N is set to two
and we SSH to server0N
which is actually server02, execute the hostname,
and then our loop is complete.
Again, like I demonstrated above,
you can just SSH into any server
and run a command
without having to start an interactive shell
if you supply the command on the SSH command line there,
that command you supply gets executed on the remote system
and then you disconnect from the remote system
and the output is displayed.
Okay, so this allows us to do some things like this.
Let's change into our shared folder of vagrant
and create a file here called servers.
Notice I used a single redirect operator
that created a new file for the first line there.
If there was a servers file that existed,
it would've been overwritten,
and the second time I used double greater than signs
which appends, so I added server02 to the server's file.
So let's check the contents of that really quickly.
Sure enough, that file
only contains two lines, server01 and server02.
So then we can do some things like this,
for SERVER in cat servers.
And so remember back
that the dollar sign parenthesis command
closing parenthesis syntax means take the output
of that command in those parentheses and return it
or substitute the output of that command
for the command itself here.
So what's gonna happen is this statement
is really going to read for server in server01, server02.
So then we'll do this, we'll do ssh server.
Run the hostname command again.
We'll run a second command on that server
and we'll just do an uptime.
So first, we see the hostname output for server one.
Then we see the uptime output for server one.
The loop repeats, and we get the same output for server two.
By the way, if you wanna make sure that everything
you specify after the host in an SSH command
gets executed on the remote host,
put it in quotation marks.
So if we were to do this,
ssh server01 hostname ; hostname,
what's gonna happen is the semicolon
is going to be interpreted
as the command separator which it is,
and the first hostname is going to get executed
on server01 via SSH
and then it's going to terminate that command
because the colon is a command separator.
Then the second hostname on this command line
will actually execute on the local host.
So let's hit enter to prove that here.
So sure enough, ssh server01 hostname evaluates to server01
and then hostname command itself returns admin01
because it gets executed on the local host.
So if you wanna make sure that everything
that occurs on that command line
happens on the remote system,
you need to put it in quotes.
So let's do this.
Here what happens is the hostname ; hostname command
or command group, everything in quotes there,
gets executed on the remote system,
on server01 in this particular example.
So whether you're doing semicolons or pipes or whatever,
if you wanna make that happen on the remote system,
just enclose it in quotes.
Of course, normal expansion rules apply.
So if you want variables to be expanded,
you need to use double quotes like this.
So let's say we're gonna use variables for command.
So we'll have command one variable be hostname,
and the command two variable be uptime.
Now what we can do is this, ssh server01,
and then use double quotes
because we want CMD1 to be expanded to hostname
and CMD2 to be expanded to uptime.
The command to view the running processes
or the process table is ps
and a couple of options that I end up using
often are ps space -ef
which shows every process.
The -e and the -f represents the full listing,
so it shows a full listing of every process.
So let's take the output of the ps command
and pipe it to head.
So let's do this, ssh server01, run ps -ef.
Pipe that to head, -3.
Only look at the first couple
of processes here and hit Enter.
So what happened with that command is ps -ef pipe head -3
all was executed on server one.
Now we'll get the same output if we do this,
ps ef head -3.
But the difference is this time is that the head command
is actually executed on this server
and not the remote server.
In this instance there isn't difference,
but again, it's something to be aware of.
Another thing to keep in mind is that SSH will exit
with the exit status of the remote command that was executed
or with 255 if an error occurred with SSH itself,
and of course, how do I know this?
Well, I read the man page.
So let me pull it up for you really quick.
We'll do man ssh
and I'm looking for exit status here.
So here it is.
SSH exits with the exit status of the remote command
or 255 if an error occurred.
So let me get out of here with Q.
So let's do something like this.
Let's make SSH error out by giving it
a server that doesn't exist.
Here it says it could not resolve hostname server03
and if we check the exit status
of the SSH command, we get 255.
So if you're writing a script,
you can check for exit status 255
to distinguish an SSH error from an error
that's coming from a remote command
that was just passed on by SSH.
So if we do this, ssh server02 that exists,
run uptime and then check the exit status,
we get a zero which was actually the exit status
returned by the uptime command.
Okay, here's yet another important little thing to know
when you're executing these remote commands with SSH..
It's actually more accurate to say that SSH exits
with the exit status of the last command executed remotely
or 255 if an error occurred with SSH.
So let me give you a couple of examples.
So there is a command called true that always returns true
or an exit status of zero,
and there is also a counterpart to that
which is called false which always returns one
which is a non-success or a false here on the command line.
So if we do this, ssh server01,
we'll execute false and we'll pipe that to true
which doesn't do anything practically,
but it's just to show us about these exit statuses.
So if we do that
and then we do this, echo $?,
we get a return value of zero
and that's because the last command that was executed true
returned to zero exit status.
So let's do this, ssh server01 true false.
And then when we look at that exit status,
we get an exit status of one
because the false command returned that exit status of one.
Let's say you want any non-zero exit statuses
to be returned if you are using a pipe on the remote system,
so the way to accomplish that is to use this.
So when we check the exit status here,
we get an exit status of one
because that occurred during the pipeline.
Now let's look at this.
Let's look at the help for set.
Pipe that to last
'cause there's a lot of information here.
Just gonna go down to pipe here.
So if we turn on this pipe fill option,
the return value of a pipeline
is the exit status of the last command to exit
with a non-zero exit status
or zero if no command exited with a non-zero exit status.
So this is something to keep in mind if you wanna make sure
that every command in a pipeline
was successful when using SSH.
Okay, enough about executing commands on remote systems.
Let's write a simple script that checks
to see if our servers are reachable via ping or not.
So I'm gonna name this multinet-demo01.
Goes without saying we start with a shebang.
Add a little comment to our script here.
So we're going to use a file
that contains a list of our hosts here
and we just created that at the command line,
so we'll just reuse that
and let's put a check in here to make sure that it exists
before we try to loop through it.
In computer speak, this says if not exists server file,
then do something.
Another way to say that is if the file doesn't exist,
then do something, and the thing we're going to do here
is say cannot open server_file for whatever reason,
and we are going to exit,
I'm just gonna go back up here
and actually put this in quotation marks.
So the next step here is just a loop through that file,
so we'll do a for loop.
This time, let's use a count of one.
I'm kind of impatient.
If it can ping in one, we'll consider it up
and if we don't get a response with one packet,
we'll be rather impatient
and just assume it's down.
Ping generates some output as we know.
I'm just gonna send all this output to dev/null
because I really don't care about the output.
What I care about is really the return status.
I wanna know if that command succeeded or failed
and of course, you know how to check that with this.
If the status is not zero,
then something went wrong.
So we're just going to consider the server down.
Now in the real world if you can't ping a server,
that doesn't necessarily mean it's down.
It could mean that it's using a firewall
that's preventing you from pinging it.
It could mean a lot of different things.
It doesn't necessarily mean the server's down.
But in this simplistic example,
we're going to assume that it's down
or at least that's what we're going to report anyway.
Okay, that will finish up our for loop.
By the way, I checked the exit status
and said not equal zero, then do down.
You could have done the exact opposite.
You could have said if the exit status equaled zero,
then the server was up.
Else it was down.
So you can do that anyway that makes sense in your own mind.
That's what I've chosen to do,
so I'm going to save my changes,
add some execute permissions on this,
and then run this script.
So it says server one is up and server two is up.
Now let's stop one of the servers, make it go down
and not be available over the network,
and then try our script again.
There's a few different ways to do this,
but I'm just going to exit out of admin01.
Now I'm back on my local machine on my physical computer.
I'm not in a virtual machine here,
and then what I'm going to do
is just halt the server02 here.
And by the way, if you just run vagrant halt,
it's going to halt all the systems
here that are defined, not just server02.
So I had to specify that.
So now I'm going to SSH back and do admin01.
Go to the Vagrant folder
and execute our demo script here.
So server one came up right away.
It's waiting on server two,
and the ping is going to time out
and get a non-zero exit status,
and our script reports that server two is down.
I have just a couple of notes here before we wrap things up.
First, this relationship that we set up between the systems
with the SSH authentication,
it's a one-way relationship.
We can SSH into server01 and server02 from admin01,
but not the other way around.
You could set it up that way,
but it's just a common practice
to have these one-way relationships
so that you can designate an administration server
to do all your admin work from.
Of course, you can set things up to go the other way,
but you'll have to do all the steps we did
like add host entries, generate keys,
copy the public keys to where
you want to log into and so on.
Also I want to point out
a critical distinction when using sudo.
Let's look at this command, ssh server01 sudo id.
The SSH command is executed as the current user
and in our case, that current user is Vagrant.
We are then connected to server01 as the Vagrant user
and if we execute the command sudo id,
that is being executed as the vagrant user.
In this particular example,
the command sudo id is executed as the vagrant user
on the server01 virtual machine.
Of course, using sudo gives us root privileges
and so our ID that we get back is the root ID here.
Now if we do this command, sudo ssh server01 id,
if we were to execute this particular command,
it would execute SSH as the root user on our local system.
And we are running sudo ssh locally,
then we're connecting to server01 as the root user
and then executing the uptime command on the remote system.
So let me hit enter here
and see what happens.
So here it's asking us about do you trust this server's key?
And we can say yes,
and then you may notice
here at the bottom of your screen we have root@server01.
Again, we're executing sudo ssh on the local system
which makes us root first,
then we're connecting to server01.
So it's as if we're running SSH server01 as the root user.
So here, if we want to continue this process,
we need to enter the root password for server01
which happens to be vagrant.
So we get the same output as we did
running the command the other way,
but I just wanna make sure that you get the distinction.
Running sudo ssh means we're connecting as root to server01
and to do that,
we have to give roots password for server01.
If you wanna do this without a password,
then you have to generate SSH keys for the root user
and copy the public key to the destination servers
like we did before with a Vagrant user.
Now some Linux systems are configured
such that root logins aren't allowed,
so you have to connect as a normal user
and then run sudo inside the virtual machine
instead of connecting as root.
Anyway I wanted to point out this very subtle,
but very important difference.
And with that, that brings us to the end of this lesson
and now we have a private network
of three virtual machines configured and running.
If you followed along
and built your own private network
with me here today, that's great.
And if not, well, that's fine too
because you'll get a chance to do that
in the exercise that follows.

--- Scripting Remote Commands – Exercise – Instructions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Scripting Remote Commands – Walkthrough – Part 1 ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
All right! Welcome to this exercise
walkthrough. You know the drill: What
we're going to do is look at our
requirements, and then we're going to go
ahead and build a script to satisfy
those requirements. So the requirements
for this particular scripting exercise
are that the script is named run-
everywhere.sh, and what it does is,
it executes all arguments as a single
command on every server listed in the
file, and by default that file is /vagrant/servers. This script also executes
the provided command as the user executing
the script. So, we don't want people to
execute this as sudo, we want them to
execute it as themselves, and that
way they can have their own SSH key
set up and that sort of thing and do it
that way, and if they want to use root
privileges, we'll provide them a way to
do that that we'll talk about in just a
second here. So, another thing we want to
do is use an SSH command that actually
times out in a relatively short period
of time. We may have not really talked
about this in one of our demonstrations
or one of our exercises before this, but
what can happen is, if you have a server
that's down on the network and you try
to SSH to it, SSH can take a minute or
two before it times out, and of course
any of these network commands such as
ping or SSH or other similar commands
often have a way to control the timeout.
So here, the way to do it with SSH is to
use the "-o ConnectTimeout=" and
then some value. We'll use that option, and
so I've just decided to use two seconds.
You could leave this out and let it fail
on its own, or you could use a longer
duration if you want longer than two, but
I think this is good for our particular
purposes. We also decided that this
script is going to allow the user to
specify some options. The first option
that we're concerned with this -f and
then a path to a file, and what this does
is allows the user to override the
default file of /vagrant/servers. This way they can create
their own list, or even sub list, of
servers, and execute commands against that
list that they provide to to the script
so it's not hard coded, if you will.
The next option is -n, which stands for
"dry run", and this allows for commands to
be displayed instead of executed. And
another option we're going to give the
user the ability to use is -s, which
runs the command with sudo or superuser
privileges on the remote server. For
example, if they need to run a system
administration command that requires
root privileges, they'll just use -s,
they will be connected via SSH via their
normal user, and then sudo will be
prepended to their command, which allows
it to be executed as root on the remote
system. And of course, with sudo it has
to be configured, number one, and then,
number two, there is a log file that
tracks who is running what commands with
sudo. So that is a very good feature
indeed. Okay, so the last option we're going
to allow for is -v, which enables a
verbose mode, and that just simply
displays the name of the server for
which the command is being executed on.
So, as you know, some commands generate output, and if you want to see what
output is coming from what server, then
use -v, and then it will show you. So
that's the whole idea behind that. Again,
we mention this, that we're going to
enforce that the script be executed
without super user privileges, and if
they do execute it with super user
privileges, let's just tell them to use
the -s option, maybe give them a
usage statement, and then exit the script.
Speaking of the usage statement, we're
going to create one. Much like you would
see in a man page for a normal command
on a Linux system, we're going to create
our own little mini man page. if you will.
for this script. If, for any reason, a
command was not able to be executed
successfully on a remote host, we want to
let the user know about that. And also, we
want to exit with a zero exit status if
everything went okay, or, if everything
didn't go okay, we'll just exit with the
most recent nonzero exit status from
the SSH command. And that could mean that
we didn't connect to a host, or that
could mean that the command itself
failed. The first step for this project
is to actually create a small internal
network, if you will, of
three virtual machines. We're going to
create an administration server, and then
two other servers that are going to act
as the workhorses, if you will, for our
little network here. So, obviously the
first thing you do is open up a command
line session on your local machine. We'll
go into the shell class folder, and we're
going to create a "multinet" vagrant
project. So that's what we're going to
name it - nothing special about the name,
it's just something I chose - and then
what we're going to do is initialize our
vagrant project, here, and we're going to
use the class image. Now, we need to edit
our vagrant file to specify the three
machines that we want to have created by
vagrant. So I'm just going to come down
here below the config,vm,box line, and
add my configuration. So we'll create the
admin01 server first, here.
I'll set the hostname to admin01,
give it an
IP address of 10.9.8.10.
and then I'm just going to copy this
configuration to the next one here.
And so anywhere I see admin01, I'm just
going to change that to server01, and
then the IP address is going to be .11 - very similar process here -
or server02, so anywhere I see 01 just
change it to 02 - well, almost anywhere
I see 01. Okay, so let me double check my
work here. I have admin01 with an IP
address of 10.9.8.10, server01
10.9.8.11, and server02 with
10.9.8.12. Okay, this looks
good. So now what we need to do is run
"vagrant up" and it will create all three
of these systems, and then once it's up
we'll connect to the admin01 server
and start writing our script.
Okay, this looks good. Let me run
"vagrant status" to confirm.
Sure enough, admin01, server01,
and server02 are all in the
"running" state according to vagrant. And
now what we're going to do is connect to
the admin01 system and do our work
from there. So I'll run "vagrant ssh admin01".
Once here, I'm going to move into the
shared folder of /vagrant,
and now i'm going to start editing our
script. So we're going to name it run-everywhere.sh.
By default, we're going to
have a list of servers located at
/vagrant/servers, and I'm
just going to put that variable at the
very top of the script here. I'm going to
call it SERVER_LIST. Another variable I'm
going to define at the top of our shell
script here is going to be around the
SSH options that we're going to use for
our timeout settings. Now, this may be
something, personally, that I would adjust
over time depending on how my network
works and things like that. Maybe I'll
have other options that I think that
I'll need to use in the future, so I'm
going to put these types of things at
the very top of my script, here. So we'll
just, say...
Unlike some of our other scripts, we do not want this script run with super user privileges.
So, what we're going to do is do a check, like this.
So, this says, if the UID is equal to zero,
that means we know they're executing
this with root privileges, and
then we're going to tell them not to do
that, and then use this -s option
that we're going to allow them to use
instead. And -s, in my mind, stands
for sudo, or superuser. We're also
going to give them a usage statement
here, and I'm just going to build that
into a function because I know we're
going to need this later anyway, when
we're doing things like parsing options.
So I'm going to put our usage function here.
We're going to allow for the n, s, and v options.
We're also
going to allow for a -f option, but that
requires a file if they use that, and
then we are going to require a command.
By the way, anything they provide on the
command line after the options is going
to be treated as a single command. We're
just going to pass that over to ssh and
allow that to be executed. So we're not
going to do anything super fancy here.
This is going to allow us to do what we
need to do, and if the user wants multiple
commands to be run on the remote host,
then they just need to enclose that in
quotation marks so that entire command
gets sent over, and not changed by any
shell expansion or anything like that. So,
we'll get to some of these examples in a
minute, but I just wanted to point that
out really quick - that we're not
promising the user anything other than
executing one command on every remote
system.
Oops, I see a typing mistake here, fix that.
Okay, let's continue here. So, we're going to
have them execute the script, then we're
going to make sure that they're not
executing it with root privileges, and if
they make it past that check, well, then
we can start parsing the arguments or
parsing the options.
-f requires an argument, so we're going to put a : after that option, and the n, s, and
v options do not.
So, for the f option we're going to allow them to override the server list.
The -n option
is just going to be dry run, and we'll
just set that variable to true, and then
we'll check it later on in our script.
S is for sudo and we'll set that to "sudo" and you'll see why I do that here in just a
minute.
And then we're going to allow for
VERBOSE, and we'll set that to true, and
then we'll check that later on. And any
other option is going to be invalid, and
so we're going to teach them how to use
the script with a usage statement here.
So now that anything that's left on the
command line after we parse the options
should be a command, so let's shift
everything over after the options.
So the whole point of this script is for
a user to give us a command, and then
this script will execute that command on
all the systems in the server list, and
if they don't supply an argument after
options, well, then there are no commands
to execute, so we should really tell them
how to use the script and exit. So, if
there are no commands to execute, give
them "usage", and then exit. At this point,
anything that remains is the command.
So, now that we've checked that they're
executing the script with non superuser
privileges, and that they actually gave
us a command to execute over a list of
servers, now what we need to do is make
sure that that list of servers actually
exists. And, remember, we allowed them to
change that with a -f option above,
and that means they can give us any kind
of data that they want. So, we need to
make sure that they gave us a path to a
file and that we can read that file. So
we'll do a check right here.
The if statement reads, if "! -e" (not exist) $SERVER_LIST, then we'll do these two commands here:
echo "Cannot open server list", and tell them what file we tried to open. And what we're
going to do is send that message to
standard error. And we do that, of course,
with a &gt;&amp;2 and then we exit our script with a nonzero
exit status. Speaking of exit statuses,
you know that one of our requirements is
to make sure the script does not exit
with zero if there was an error somewhere
along the way. So, one way we can
accomplish this goal is to set an exit
status of zero at the beginning, and then
check
for any nonzero exit statuses from the
ssh command as we execute them, and then
if there happens to be a nonzero exit
status, then overwrite our default exit
status for the script and then exit with
that exit status. So, what we're going to
do here is just say to expect the best,
but we're going to prepare for the worst.
And we do that with an exit status of
zero - we'll assume zero and
then otherwise, we'll overwrite it.
Okay, so now what we need to do is loop through the server list.
So, what this for loop does
is it takes the contents of the server list
file and assigns it to the variable
SERVER. So, the first item in SERVER_LIST
will be assigned to SERVER, and
we'll go through this loop, and then the
second line, or the second server, will be
assigned to SERVER and we'll do
that until there are no more servers in this
server list. Now, we promised that if they
were going to be in verbose mode, that we
were going to tell them what server
we're about to execute a command on
before we do it. So, let's just put
a quick check in here.
Simple enough. And then, what we're going to do is actually
build an ssh command with the ssh
command itself, the options that we
specified at the beginning of the
scripts, the server that we're going to
be executing the command on, and if we
need to execute it with sudo privileges,
and then, of course, the command itself. So, the reason why I'm going to put this
into a variable is that we're going to
need to use this variable twice. If it's
a dry run we're just going to print this
variable, but if it's not, then we're
actually going to execute it. So, in
theory, I could have written this out
twice, but in kind of the spirit of not
repeating myself, I'm just going to
create a variable to store this command
that we can use in
two different ways, as you'll see here in
just a second. So, I'm going to store this
command in the SSH_COMMAND
variable.
So, the SSH_OPTIONS variable contains
that "-o ConnectTimeout=" setting, and we're going
to connect to a server that comes from the
server list, which is assigned to
$SERVER in the for loop, then we're
going to execute the remote command with
sudo if they provided the -s option. So,
if you remember, above, if they provided
-s, we set $SUDO equal to "sudo" - the word
"sudo". Now, if they didn't supply the -s
option, then the variable SUDO is not
set and it will just return an empty
string, so it will not run with sudo
privileges, and we'll show this in a few
minutes here. There are a couple of
different ways to handle that, that is
one way. You could have also put a check,
you could have had SUDO set to "true"
and then later on down here check: Oh, is
SUDO true? And then if so, then
accommodate it there. Or, you can do it
like I've done it here. Again, as long as
the script works, I don't really care how
you get there, as long as it makes sense
to you, and it's actually functional. Okay,
so, obviously, the last thing left to do
here is run the command. If it's a dry
run, we're not going to execute anything.
We're just going to display what we
would have executed. So, let's put a check
in right here.
So, here, if it's a dry run, we just
display the words "DRYRUN" and then the
command that we would have executed.
Otherwise, we're just going to execute
this command.
We're going to store the
exit status because we're going to check
it, here, in a minute.
Let's talk through
this last little bit of code, here.  So, we
execute the ssh command, we store the
return code or exit value into the
SSH_EXIT_STATUS variable, then we check that variable.
If it's anything other than zero, then what
we're going to do is set the exit
status of our program to that - that SSH_EXIT_STATUS variable. So, this
allows that default value of zero to be
overridden if anything goes wrong along
the way. Then we tell the user that the
execution failed, and we tell them on
what server it failed, and, again, we're
sending that to standard error because
it is an error message. Here, I chose not
to exit right after an error, and
the reason for that is, let's say you have a
long list of servers - let's say 100
servers - and on server number three, you
get an error. Well, you may want to
continue executing that command on all
the servers that are up, or available, or
whatever, without immediately exiting
because
perhaps you just want to know the ones
that failed so you can look at them
manually later instead of having to
figure out, okay,
the command got executed on these two
servers, but not these other ones, so now
I have to fix server number 3, or take it
out of the lists, or create a
new list that doesn't contain the first
two that the command got ran on, and so
on. So that was my thinking on not
exiting the script there. Of course, if
you want to allow the user an option,
perhaps you can use a -e option
that says, hey, exit on error, and then you
could check for that option here and
then exit if the user set that, for
example. So, again, I love scripting, you
can make these scripts do anything you
want. So, now that I have my script
written, what I'm going to do is actually go
to the very top of the script and just
kind of scan down it and look for some
common issues and common mistakes that
everyone makes. For example, not
providing a matching quote, missing an
opening or closing bracket, spelling of a
word, any of those types of errors, and I
may not find them all right away, and if
not, that's okay. When I execute my script
I'll see an error and then I can go back
and fix it because, again, I'm working
here on a virtual machine on a test
system, and it's okay if I break things
here, right? I'm not doing it on a
production server, and this is not going
to wake anyone up in the middle of the
night and break anything super important.
So, let me just jump to the very top of
the script and just start working my way
down and see if I find anything that
looks obviously wrong to me.
So, here, as I'm working my way down, I'm looking to make sure I don't have spaces in between
the equal signs when I'm doing variable
assignments. I'm making sure that if I
have a single quote at the beginning
that it ends with a single quote and not
a double quote - I have done that in the
past, it's a common mistake to make
mismatched quotes. If I'm using a bracket
I'm going to look to see if have an
opening bracket and a closing bracket. If
I'm referencing a variable inside
a statement, I'm going to make sure that
that statement is in quotation marks
like this, double quotes so it gets
expanded - here I have it in double quotes,
so that looks good. I'm just going to
keep going down, here. I don't see anything
on that screen.
Okay, here is an error. I actually need this dollar sign to be
before the variable, and I actually need
a closing quotation mark, so if I had
executed my script, I would have ran into
this bug. And I see a very similar thing
right here that I did as well - I left off
a closing quotation mark.
Same thing here.
Okay, so today, I was not paying very close
attention to my closing quotation marks
so I'm really glad I had taken the extra
minute here to look over my script.
No promises that I'm not going to have
an error in a second, but if I do, we'll
just troubleshoot it and figure it out
at that time. So, I'm just going ahead and
save my changes.

--- Scripting Remote Commands – Walkthrough – Part 2 ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
Before I can actually test my script, I
have some setup to do. So, I want to make
sure that I have /etc/hosts entries for
the servers that I'm going to be calling
by name, and one way we can do this is
with echo...
and combine that with sudo tee -a /etc/hosts.
Okay, that looks good.
Let's see if I can ping them by name.
Okay, 10.9.8.11 for server01,
and I can ping server02 as well when
that corresponds to that 10.9.8.12
address, so that looks good. So now,
the next thing I need to do is configure
SSH authentication, if I haven't. And this
is a new server - I just created it from
scratch, as you saw just a couple of
minutes ago - so i need to create a key
pair on my admin01 server. So, I'll do
that with ssh-keygen. I'm just going
to accept the default options here. I'm not
going to use a passphrase because I want
to execute commands on remote systems
without having to enter a passphrase. Now
I need to copy that public key to our
servers, so I'm going to copy it to
server01. Yes, I'm going to trust
that key, and then I'm going to type in
"vagrant" for the password.
I'm going to do the same thing for
server02 - "yes", and the password is
"vagrant". So now I should be able to
execute a command on one of those
systems without a password, so if I do
ssh server01 and i execute the hostname command -
whoops, if I type the hostname correctly -
then it will execute on the remote system
and return its host name, which is server01. Do the same thing with server02.
Connects remotely, executes command,
exits, and we're back to admin01. So, this
is looking good. So here I am in my /vagrant folder, and I want to create this
list of default servers that we coded
for in our script. So I'm just going to
do this: server01, then add server02.
Now, the single greater-than sign
truncates or overrides a file, so if that
servers file existed it would have been
zeroed out and then the contents of the
echo command would have been stored
in that file. With the double
greater-than signs, it appends to
whatever's in that file. So here we have
server01 and server02 in our
file. Now we're ready to test our script. Of course. the first time we execute our
script, we want to make sure it has the
proper permissions.
Let's test to see if our check about
whether or not it was run with root
privileges works. So, we'll run it with
sudo. It says, "Do not execute this script
as root. Use the -s option instead," and
it gives us our usage statement, and of
course it should exit with a non zero
exit status, which it does. So, that looks
like it's working perfectly. Now, let's
make sure the script displays a usage
message if we don't supply a command to
execute on the list of servers. So, if we
run this command without any options or
any commands, it should show us that
usage statement. And it does, so that
looks good.
Now, let's try our script with an invalid
option. Let's do this: run-everywhere.sh -x,
and we'll say the "hostname" command is
what we want to execute everywhere, but
it turns out -x is an invalid option,
and getopts catches that, and our script
looks good. Okay, so this time let's execute
this script the way it's supposed to be
executed. So, we'll give the name of our
script and the command we want executed
on all the remote systems. So, sure enough,
it executes the hostname command on
server01, which returns of course
server01. and the hostname command on
server02, which returns server02. Now
let's execute the script using the dry
run option, which I opted to use the -n
for. By the way, I use that because it's
a familiar option to me with some other
Linux commands - for example, rsync has
-n for dry run, there are some other
examples - so you could have probably used
-d if you wanted to, but it seems to be
a convention, at least, to use -n for a
dry run option. Anyway, enough of that
aside, let's try it out in our script.
So, it would have executed
ssh -o "ConnectTimeout=2" server01
and then the "hostname" command.
Now, you may not notice it here,
but there is actually an additional
space here, and that's because we have a
space here, and then the $SUDO variable (for which
we didn't use -s, so it's not set, so
it doesn't get displayed), and then a
space after that $SUDO variable. So we end
up with two spaces here. So that's how
that's going to work, by the way.
Okay, let's use the -v option, so we'll
do this: run-everywhere.sh -v. Let's use the
"uptime" command that displays how long a
system has been up, and it's load average,
and how many users are logged in, and
that sort of thing - pretty simple command,
can be kind of interesting. Let's see
what happens. Okay, server01 has been
up 42 minutes, server02 has been up 41
minutes, and load average is zero because
nothing's going on on those systems.
Let's try to combine some options like
the -n and -s options. So, -n is a dry run,
-s is for sudo. So "-ns id", and the
command that would have been executed
would have been that ssh with the ssh
options, the server name, and then the
SUDO variable, which evaluates to "sudo",
and then the command. So, again, here we
had two spaces, here we have a space, and
then the contents of that SUDO variable,
and another space. So, again, that's how
that is going to work. This time, let's
run the "id" command with -v. If we didn't
use the -v option in this particular
case the output is the same, so we
wouldn't have known what servers the
output was coming from.
So using this -v option can help with
that, so that's kind of why we coded it
in here in our little script. Let's
create our own little mini server list
here. We'll just put server01 into that
list, and we'll just call this list test,
cat test, okay, it only has one server in
there, and then let's go ahead and use
that list and execute a command on that
list.
So, again, just one server in the list, it
looped over that list - again, just one
doesn't make a lot of sense, but if you
have multiple servers then you can use
different lists if you want - and then it
executed the "hostname" command that we
specified. So, that looks good. Now, let's
test the case where we provide some
invalid data. So, let's say, run-everywhere.sh
to a file that doesn't exist. Okay, it looks
like our check worked: Can't open the
server list file /path/to/nowhere -
of course, that file is made-up and fake and doesn't
exist, so again our script is working as
it should. Now, let's quickly create a
"test1" account on all the servers in
our server list, and of course creating
accounts requires superuser or root privileges. Okay, so we'll run our command with
the superuser privileges, we'll run the useradd command, and we'll pass it the name
of the account we want to create, which
is "test1". So the useradd command
doesn't generate any output unless it
encounters an error, and it looks like no
errors were displayed, so how do we know
if this worked? Well, one way we can figure
it out is by running a command
everywhere, and that command will be "id"
against the username "test1" to see if
it was created. So, sure enough, we get the
exact same output from both of those
systems because the account was created
exactly the same on both of those
systems. Now, let's say you want to create
a "test2" account with a comment of "Test Two" on all the servers. Because we want
to use a quoted string on the remote
system - because we're going to quote "Test Two"
for our comment - we have to put that
command in quotes. And to quote a quote,
use the opposing quotation mark. Now,
let me just demonstrate that to you on
the command line. So, if we do this: echo
double quote, single quote,
Test Two, single quote, double quote, what we
get displayed is, single quote, Test Two,
single quote. So, we're using the opposite
quotation mark if we want single
quotations to be displayed while we
encapsulate those in double quotation
marks, and if we want to do the opposite,
Test Two here with double quotation
marks, we encapsulate those with single
quotation marks. All right, hopefully that
makes some sense. So, if we want to
preserve our quotes for the argument to
the -c option to the useradd command,
we need to make sure that they are
quoted. So how we would do this is this:
run-everywhere.sh - let's do a dry run to see
what would get executed, so we can test
to make sure we have our quotes right on
the command line before we blast this
command on every server and potentially
have an account created that doesn't
have the right information, or we
accidentally create the wrong account
and so on. So, let's do the dry run option.
We need sudo privileges, or we want to
use sudo privileges here.
Okay, so what would have gotten executed would be ssh with our SSH options, the server name,
then "sudo useradd -c", and sure enough,
our comment is enclosed in quotation
marks, just like we need it on the remote
system. So, this is going to work for us.
So now, what we need to do is just go
back up here, eliminate our dry run
option, and let it execute as root on
those remote systems. Now, let's see if it
got created. And sure enough, it did, and
let's run this with the -v option, and you
see exactly what server is generating
this output. So sure enough, server01 says
we have a test2 account with an ID of
1002,
as does server02. We could also do this:
we could run-everywhere.sh,
-v option to display our server name, and
then we'll just tail the last two
entries in the /etc/passwd file, and we
should see our two accounts that we
created: a test1 account that we did
not supply a comment for, and a test2
account for which we had to be careful
about our quotation marks. Now, let's test
our script even further by executing a
command that doesn't exist, and we want
to make sure that our command exits with
a non-zero exit status. So let's
run-everywhere.sh - I hope this command
doesn't exist on your server. If it does,
well, I'll be darned.
Okay, sure enough, "i-like-eggs" is not a
command on server01 or server02, and
let's look at our return status. Sure
enough, our script exited with a nonzero
exit status, so this is exactly what we
want to do. Now, here's another test we
can do. Let's say one of our servers is
down, and what's going to happen when we
try to execute a command to that server?
Well, let's go ahead and exit out of
admin01. Now I'm back to my local
system, be it Mac, Windows, or Linux. Then
I'm going to halt server02. By the way,
if you run "vagrant halt" without
specifying a server, it's going to halt
all the servers, or all the virtual
machines, defined in your Vagrantfile. I
want to limit this command to just one
server, that's why I specified it here on
the command line.
Likewise, with ssh, I need to specify what
server I'm going to. I'm going to get
into admin01. Let's go back to our
shared vagrant folder, and this time
let's do run-everywhere.sh -v and use the
"uptime" command. So, server01 has been up
51 minutes, and server02, the ssh timed
out - remember we set the time out to be 2
seconds here. And let's check the exit
status of our script. So, it exits with a
nonzero exit status. So, if there is a
server along the way that you can't
connect to, then you get a nonzero exit
status with your scripts and you know,
"Hey, I need to look at that output and
make sure to go and check out that
server." Well, that brings us to the end of
this exercise. I hope you enjoyed it! I'll
be curious to see what you come up with,
and of course I hope you find a way
to put these concepts and techniques
into use into your workflow.

--- Summary ---

Instructor: At the beginning of the course
you started learning about the absolute necessities
when it comes to shell scripting,
you found out that it really doesn't matter
what the file name of the shell script is
or what extension it has, if any.
The most important thing is its permissions,
and specifically the execute permission.
You learned how to add
executable permissions to your scripts with a chmod command.
Once you started writing shell scripts
you learned the importance of using a shebang
on the very first line of your script.
You also learned how to insert comments in your script.
You quickly started using variables
to store values in your script.
You used the echo shell builtin
to generate standard output,
including displaying the contents of variables.
You learn that using single quotes around a string
makes it a literal string.
That means everything in the single quotes is displayed
exactly as it appears in your shell script.
When you want to allow for variable expansion
you learned to use double quotes.
You learned how to use the type command
to determine if a command is a shell builtin
or a Linux command.
To get help on a shell builtin
you use the help Shell builtin command.
For Linux commands you learned
how to use and read man pages.
You also learned how to take advantage
of some of the shell variables that you get for free
when using bash.
Some of the variables you've used included host name,
random, and UID.
We talked about command substitution
and how the dollar sign parentheses syntax
is the current favored way
to perform that command substitution,
while surrounding a command in back ticks
is the older syntax that you may still encounter
from time to time.
You assign the output of commands
to variables using this method,
as well as using the output of those commands directly
or as part of other commands.
Once you started creating scripts
that had multiple steps and requirements,
you were introduced to the concept of pseudo coding,
which is simply a high level description
of what your script will do.
You then went back over your steps
and filled in the exact commands and details
required to make those steps function correctly.
You also learned how to use an if statement.
We talked about how you can use expressions
and operators supported by the test builtin
between the double brackets of the if statement.
We also talked about the older syntax
of using single brackets for conditional expressions.
The use of the if statement brought us to exit statuses.
That's because the if statement
was checking to see if an expression was successful or not
before it executed the appropriate code block.
When a command completes successfully
it returns an exit status of zero.
When it doesn't, it returns a non-zero exit status.
You learned how to control the exit status of your scripts
by using the exit shell built in.
You also learned how to check the exit status
of the most recent command by examining the contents
of the variable dollar sign question mark.
You've used the if statement
to perform some sanity checking.
Users don't always behave the way you want them to
and systems are not always configured exactly the same.
If something is required for your script
to execute successfully
you learned that you have to check for it.
When you started using multiple options to various commands
we talked about how you can combine
multiple single character options following just one hyphen.
For most options, the order doesn't matter,
so you can execute the same command in multiple ways
and still get the exact same result.
Also, many commands give you the option
of using a single character option
or a longer version of that option.
When there are two forms of the same option,
such as dash N or dash dash name,
you only need to use one of the forms.
By the way, all the variations
of the ID command you see here on your screen
are equivalent and produce the exact same output.
Next, you learned how to use the read shell builtin
in order to capture standard input
and store it in a variable.
You then moved on to creating random data
that you could use for account passwords.
One way you did this
was by taking advantage of the random shell variable.
Another method you used
was to take the output of the date command
and run it through a cryptographic hash function.
You then started working with positional parameters.
You learned that arguments
are what are supplied to your script
and that parameters are what you use
to store those arguments inside of your script.
Not only did you learn about dollar zero,
dollar one, and so on,
you learned about a few special parameters
such as dollar sign asterisk, dollar sign at sign,
and dollar sign pound sign.
Because you can't always anticipate
the number of arguments a user may supply to your script,
you used a for loop
to loop through each of the positional parameters.
You also learned how to create while loops.
While the test returns true,
the code block between do and done will be executed.
This means that during the while loop
you'll want to change the thing being tested for in some way
so that the condition eventually evaluates to false
or you'll end up in an infinite loop.
Finally, you learned how to fully manipulate standard input,
standard output, and standard error by using IO redirection.
One of the first forms of IO redirection you used
came in the form of a pipe.
You took the standard output of one command
and piped it as the standard input into another command.
You were able to start with some output
and by making small changes through a series of pipes
you were able to put it in the exact format that you wanted.
Next, you covered IO redirection to and from files.
You learned that using
a single greater than sign when redirecting
will create a new file
or override the existing contents of a file
if it already exists.
In order to append to a file without overriding it
you used the double greater than sign syntax.
You redirected the contents of a file as standard input
into a command by using the less than sign.
You also learned how to send standard error to a file
as well as how to send both standard output
and standard error to a file.
You continued working with pipes
and learned how to send both standard output
and standard error as standard input through a pipe
by using the pipe ampersand syntax.
In order to conform to the convention
of sending error messages to standard error,
you learned how to redirect standard output
to standard error.
You also learned how to discard output
by sending it to the null device.
I hope you realize how far you've come
in a relatively short period of time.
At this point, you could easily go off
and write all kinds of useful shell scripts.
You know how to control the flow of your scripts,
you know about input and output redirection.
You know how to perform loops,
you understand many shell scripting conventions
and on and on.
In short, if you've completed this course
you are so far ahead of most shell scripters.
However, I encourage you to keep learning and practicing.
Of course, one of the best ways to do that
is to use your skills to perform some real world work
that you need to get done.
Pick something that you need to automate or make easier,
be it something you do at home or at work.
Finally, I want to congratulate you
on completing this course.
It's so easy to start something yet so hard to finish it.
If you've made it this far,
know that you're one of the few
who see things through to the end.
For that, I really respect you.
I wish you the best
and I hope to see you in another one of my courses soon.

--- What Shell Scripting Is and Why You Should Learn It ---

0
In this lesson, we're going to look at what shell scripts are, why you should learn them, and how they
1
can be helpful to you.
2
First off, a shell script is simply a file that contains a series of Linux commands and shell statements.
3
The shell script itself, the file, is made up of ASCII text also called plain text.
4
This means that you need to use a text editor to create shell scripts.
5
Some good command line text editors include vim, emacs, and nano. If you want to create shell scripts in a
6
desktop environment using a graphical user interface,
7
you can use text editors like Atom, Sublime Text, Notepad++, and Text Wrangler.
8
I'm being very careful with my words here.
9
I'm saying text editor for a reason. Do not use a word processor such as Microsoft Word, Libreoffice
10
Writer or Apple's Pages to create shell scripts.
11
Many word processors add additional formatting and make changes to the text that you're typing in.
12
One common thing word processors do is they turn normal, straight quotation marks into curly quotation
13
marks.
14
Those straight quotation marks in shell scripts are actually part of the syntax, so using fancy or curly
15
quotation marks will cause your shell scripts to either report an error or produce some unexpected behaviors.
16
Also, these plain text files do not include any other types of special formatting such as bold text, italics,
17
and so on.
18
When a shell script is executed, it in turn executes the commands listed in the script.
19
It starts at the top and executes the commands on each line one line at a time until the end of the
20
file.
21
Executing a shell script will produce the exact same result as if you had typed in each line by hand
22
directly into the terminal.
23
So, shell scripts are plain text files that contain a series of commands.
24
But why would you want to save a series of commands into a script?
25
For starters, it can save you a lot of time in a work.
26
Any time you find yourself entering multiple shell commands in the terminal in order to accomplish a
27
task and you'll need to do that task again in the future, it's time to write a shell script.
28
Once you figure out the set of commands that needs to be executed in order to get the work done, you
29
can put those commands in a shell script and simply execute the script itself the next time you need
30
to do that task.
31
If it's a task that has to be done on a regular basis that's even better because you can write a shell
32
script and then schedule that script to run at a certain time and then you'll never have to do it yourself
33
again.
34
So, shell scripts save you time and effort by allowing you to eliminate repetitive tasks through automation.
35
That means instead of typing the same commands over and over again you can spend that time doing more
36
valuable and higher level tasks.
37
Another good time to write a shell script is for a task that you have to do more than once, but it's
38
something that you rarely do.
39
I'll give you example of a task I had to do at one of my previous jobs.
40
Each time a new version of this one particular application came out I would have to put a copy of the
41
production database into our test environment so that the new version of the application could be tested
42
against actual production data on the production side.
43
This involves suspending rights to the database, creating a clone of the underlying SAN disks, and resuming
44
the database. To my initial point, because I rarely did this I would end up forgetting the command to
45
initiate the clone and all the options that were required to go with it. Each time I did this I had to
46
spend some time rereading the man page and more or less reteaching myself how to do this process.
47
That alone was reason enough for me to create a shell script.
48
If we go beyond my original point of "it's something that I rarely did," there was another reason to write
49
a shell script.
50
You see I wanted to make sure that the production database was paused for as little time as possible.
51
I wrote the shell script so as soon as the clone was successfully kicked off, it would resume the database.
52
That way I didn't have to manually rechecked the clone status and then manually type in the command
53
to resume the database.
54
The script did it and it did it faster than a human could do it.
55
A third take away from this one example is that since this was the company's most valuable database
56
I really didn't want to take any chances and make a mistake.
57
Once I tested my script in a non production environment, I could let it do the hard work of picking out
58
all the correct disks,
59
typing all the right commands with the right options, and so on.
60
Using a good script can reduce the chance of errors.
61
Many times I would have to do this at midnight when I was tired and not as alert as usual.
62
When you're tired, the chances of making mistakes go up.
63
So, to have some extra help in the form of a shell script was a very good thing for me.
64
If you want to delegate a task to less experienced or knowledgeable staff then create a shell script
65
for it.
66
If you have some specific knowledge of how a piece of work needs to be performed, you can put that knowledge
67
in a shell script.
68
The shell script then becomes a black box to others,
69
but they can still use it to get the same result.
70
Take, for example, an employee separation process. Let's say someone from human resources submits a help
71
desk ticket to notify the information technology department that a given employee has left the company.
72
The helpdesk then transfers that ticket to you so you can lock the Linux account on all the Linux systems.
73
If you created a shell script that perform the work,
74
you could hand this task over to the help desk.
75
They don't have to know all the details of how the shell script actually works,
76
they just need instructions on how and when to use it.
77
That frees you up from that particular task. If you need information from more than one command or source,
78
that is another great time to create a shell script. If you ever find yourself making notes,
79
that's a good sign there's an easier way to do it.
80
For example, let's say you manage a web server
81
and for each IP address that generated a web server error, you wanted to know their host name as well as
82
see all the web pages that they visited.
83
If you're doing this by hand you would have to look through the error log and note each IP address.
84
Perhaps you would copy and paste these IP addresses and put them in a scrap file, for example, and then
85
what you would do is look up each IP address to determine their hostname.
86
Finally,  you would search for those IP addresses in the web server access logs.
87
Now you could write a shell script that does this entire process for you and displays it in an easy
88
to consume and easy to read format.
89
OK, so I've given you a couple of examples of shell scripts.
90
When you think about it, shell scripts are really just computer programs written in the shell language.
91
So why would you choose to write programs in shell instead of writing programs in a compiled language
92
such as C or C++?
93
The main reason is speed of development.
94
For example, you can write a shell script that will perform a simple backup by first archiving a set
95
of files and then copying that archive over the network to another server.
96
You can do that in just a few lines of shell  code and be done fairly quickly.
97
However accomplishing that same task in C would take a lot of time and effort.
98
When you're writing shell scripts you don't have to worry about low level programming objects such as
99
bytes, pointers,
100
declaring data types, and so on.
101
The shell is a high level language that allows you to express complex operations simply and clearly.
102
Related to the speed of development is the ease and speed of learning how to shell script.
103
If you use the command line already, then the leap to creating shell scripts is really a small one.
104
You just need to learn a few shell specific operators and rules and you're ready to start.
105
Of course, if you want to learn advanced techniques and write really complicated shell scripts, it's going
106
to take more time and effort, but the initial learning curve is relatively low for simple scripts.
107
In all fairness, there is a trade off for the ease and speed of development.
108
That trade off comes at the cost of performance and efficiency. That shell script that you wrote in 30
109
minutes will not execute as fast as the equivalent program
110
that might take days to write in C++, but the trade off is often well worth it, especially when the shell
111
script will run fast enough for the intended purpose.
112
You can create shell scripts for almost anything, but the real sweet spot is typically for System Administration
113
and reporting tests where getting the job done is more important than getting the job done a few microseconds
114
quicker.
115
I want you to keep in mind that any task that you can do on the command line can be automated by a shell
116
script.
117
I want to see that again.
118
Any task you can do in the command line can be automated by a script.
119
Of course, some scripts are going to be harder than others,  but you can do it. In this course we'll cover
120
the simple examples all the way to the very complex situations where many people might think it's practically
121
impossible to automate such a task.
122
To quickly recap, a shell script is a plain text file that contains a series of commands. When a shell
123
script is executed, it in turn executes the commands listed in the script
124
line by line starting at the top of the script just as if you had typed the commands in yourself.
125
Shell scripts can save you a lot of time in work.
126
You can fully automate tedious or repetitive tasks.
127
You can hand off work to others by providing them a script to perform an action.
128
Scripts can also act as a form of documentation for a process or procedure that you perform in frequently.
129
In general, shell scripts are fairly quick and easy to write.
130
Instead of spending your time worrying about low level programming tasks, you can focus on accomplishing
131
the goal at hand.
132
And finally anything that you can do on the command line can be automated with the shell script.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
