

=== Welcome and Introduction ===


--- Welcome to the Course! ---

Instructor: Hello and welcome to this course.
I am so excited that you decided to enroll in this course.
Why? Because data is all around us.
We all both generate and use data
to make our lives better.
Businesses, governments, and organizations of all types
use data to make better decisions that affect us every day.
Much of the data out there, however, is unused
because organizations do not have the tools
and knowledge to capture, aggregate, model,
and transform the data into useful knowledge.
(bright music)
Data alone, however cool it is, is meaningless.
Splunk is one of the most
powerful data engineering tools available.
It allows you to turn context-free data into real value.
And in this course, you'll learn all you need to know
in order to bring that value to any organization.
This course is for everyone.
Whether you're just curious about Splunk
and what it can do for data,
whether you've inherited a Splunk environment
and aren't sure how to get started,
or you've been asked to get value
out of your organization's data,
or you're simply a curious leader who wants to know
if Splunk is the right tool for their organization,
this course is for you.

--- Introduction to the Course and How to be Successful ---

Adam: Hey, everyone, and welcome to the course.
I'm excited to be working with you.
This course, like many Udemy courses,
is divided up into sections,
and this first section is the beginning of your journey.
We'll talk, first and foremost,
about how to be successful in the course.
Then, we'll give you an introduction to Splunk,
what it is and why an organization would want to use it.
Then we'll compare and contrast Splunk Enterprise
and Splunk Cloud Platform.
We'll also talk about extending Splunk.
Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud Platform
make up the core Splunk products
that are part of the Splunk Platform,
and those are what we will be focusing on in this course.
Here's the obligatory slide about me.
I hold a Master of Science in Information Systems
from a large R1 research university
where I've also been teaching for the past 12 years.
I'm a Splunk Certified Administrator
and, of course, an online course author.
I've also been in tech for about 20 years.
Your success in this course is my number one priority,
so I want to give you some tips and tricks
on how to get the most out of this course.
A recent study showed that consistency is key to expertise
and that studying something
for 18 to 20 minutes every day for a full year
would put you ahead of 90% of all other people
on that subject.
So with that in mind,
I'm gonna ask you to Splunk every day during this course.
You don't have to give me 20 minutes,
although that would be ideal.
If you can give me just five minutes a day,
I guarantee you'll get a lot out of this course.
Each section also has a quiz
and some sections have homework.
I recommend you make sure you know
the section you're on very well
before going onto the next section,
and you can test that by passing the quizzes
with a 100% score.
And of course, follow along in the fun.
We'll have a lot of demos
and a lot of ways that you can get hands-on with Splunk.
In support of your success,
I'll provide downloadable slides, homework and quizzes,
and I'll refer you to specific places
in the official Splunk documentation
for deeper dives where necessary.
And even with all of that, we all get stuck sometimes,
so I wanna point you to some resources for getting help.
The Splunk Community found at community.splunk.com
is amazing.
They have a question-and-answer platform
where I've been able to ask anything
from very beginner questions to advanced-level questions,
and somebody always answers me within 24 hours.
All the Splunk pros hang out at the Splunk Community.
So, feel free to visit that.
Of course, the official word
comes from Splunk documentation at docs.splunk.com.
Get to know the Splunk documentation.
I reference it frequently,
both in this course and in my professional life.
It's well-written and well-organized.
And we do have a course Q&amp;A
that you should feel free to participate in,
answer other students' questions, or ask your own.
Quick reminder that course ratings
are everything to instructors.
So if you enjoyed this course,
please don't hesitate to give it five stars.
It helps me keep the content of this course updated,
as well as make new courses in the future.


=== Deploying Splunk ===


--- Splunk Overview ---

Instructor: So, what is Splunk?
Splunk is a huge platform with vast data capabilities
spanning multiple products and services.
It can be overwhelming, but by completing this course,
you'll have an understanding of which products to use
for which specific use cases.
Splunk began as a machine data processing software
and has since expanded into the number one platform
for business analytics,
security and incident monitoring, SIEM,
the more advanced SOAR,
which is security orchestration, automation, and response,
data science and machine learning,
data engineering, behavior analytics, IT operations,
and much, much more.
Hidden in your organization's data
is a gold mine of useful, actionable knowledge.
Data, as we know,
is generated by everything in the modern world.
Humans generate their data by our very location,
but also by our actions like web clicks and purchases.
Machines generate a lot of data.
The internet of things generates a lot of data.
How many sensors are on a modern electric car, for example?
Splunk takes this data, and I mean any type of data,
unstructured, structured, semi-structured,
machine-generated, human-generated,
and allows you to create value in the form of dashboards,
reports, alerts, and alert actions.
That's right, you can have Splunk kick off an email
or run a script.
Consider a typical modern organization.
It might have some assets in various cloud providers,
perhaps Microsoft 365 with Entra ID,
maybe a few other Azure services.
It might have some big data solutions
built out in Google Cloud and some infrastructure in AWS.
Most organizations
also use some sort of platform as a service
or software as a service, too,
like Salesforce or ServiceNow.
This organization likely also has on-premises assets,
like edge devices, laptops, and desktops,
or physical servers in a data center.
It likely also has networking gear and so on.
Each and every one of these items
generates a huge amount of data.
And what usually happens to all of that data?
That's right, it goes into a variable corporate black hole.
Until there's a problem.
And when there's a problem,
IT professionals like you and me
are left with manually searching through tens of thousands
or hundreds of thousands of log entries
trying to investigate the situation.
But I'm here to tell you, friends, there's a better way.
With Splunk, we can set up a system to capture this data,
clean it, format it, transform it,
and derive real business value from it.
We can also train Splunk on unstructured data.
Splunk is great at reading and parsing machine data,
for example.
This is not a block of actual machine data,
it's just some random characters,
but I wanted to illustrate
that machine data often looks somewhat like this.
It's not really human-readable, but with Splunk,
we can train it to look for certain patterns
using regular expressions,
and then label those patterns as fields.
Now, another name for a field, of course, is a column.
So in Splunk, we can then take these fields
and build data intelligence systems
that people can actually understand.
Splunk products are categorized into six categories.
In this class, we'll focus on the Splunk Platform,
which is the core of Splunk.
It includes Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud Platform.
We'll also, of course, talk about apps and add-ons
and ways to extend Splunk.
Other product categories are Security,
IT Operations, and Observability.
Splunk also provides a lot of developer tools
and developer kits for building your own apps.


=== Getting data In ===


--- Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Architecture ---

One of the greatest things about Splunk is its extensibility.
Both Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud platform can be extended, but Splunk Enterprise has the most
extensibility.
This extensibility gives you almost endless possibilities.
Splunk enterprise follows standard distributed system architecture best practices, which means it's
highly modular and highly scalable.
The architecture of Splunk Enterprise is built on Splunk components.
This is an important word to know for this class.
Splunk components are simply instances of Splunk Enterprise that are configured for a specific job.
And in this first discussion, I'm just going to talk about them at a high level.
But we will dive more deeply into Splunk components throughout the course.
The key thing to remember is every Splunk component, except for universal forwarders, are simply installations
of Splunk Enterprise configured in a different way.
There are two broad categories of Splunk Enterprise components.
They fall into processing components and management components.
And these components do exactly what you think they do.
The processing components process data.
The management components help you manage your Splunk environment.
Starting from the left, the search head handles all things search related.
It also hosts the Splunk web interface, and you can think of it as sort of the Splunk main installation.
In a highly distributed system, you might have more than one search head in a search head.
Cluster forwarders, in this case heavy forwarders, which are Splunk components, process and move
data onto either indexers or search head indexer combinations.
In small Splunk deployments, search heads can also be combined and act as indexers.
Indexers, or indexer clusters, receive data from forwarders or directly from systems and transform
that data into what Splunk calls events.
A single event is one row of data, and then it places those events in what Splunk calls an index.
And on disk, Splunk calls these storage buckets.
Over on the management side, the indexer cluster manager, or indexer cluster node manages an indexer
cluster.
An indexer cluster is a cluster of distributed and load balanced indexers.
The monitoring console is a set of dashboards and health checks that are included in your Splunk Enterprise
deployment, and it provides insights and monitoring into your entire Splunk environment.
Going down to the license Manager.
The license manager is Splunk component, through which all licensed Splunk components have to register,
and they get a license from the license manager.
And the license manager keeps track of all the different licenses you have and to which components they
are assigned.
The two final components are the deployment server and the deployer, and it's easy to get these confused,
but the deployment server is really a component that manages deployment of other Splunk components,
as well as updates and patches to Splunk components.
From the perspective of the deployment server, Splunk components are called deployment clients.
And finally, the deployer.
The deployer manages search head clusters.
If you have a highly distributed environment, you might have more than one search head that's load
balanced and part of a cluster.
I realize that's a lot of information to take in, so here's a very basic Splunk deployment.
You might have a server or a cloud service, and the data goes to forwarders and forwarders.
Forward the data onto an indexer which processes and stores the data.
And the indexer presents the data as available to search from the search head and the user.
You and I interact with the Splunk web interface that's part of the Splunk search.
Head diving.
One level deeper, we get configuration files Miles behind the scenes.
Everything about Splunk is governed by sets of configuration or dot conf files.
These files contain system settings, authentication and authorization information, index related settings,
deployment and cluster settings, knowledge objects, data models, saved searches, and a lot of other
things.
They also contain app specific settings that we'll talk much more about later.
The four conf files that we'll discuss in class are these inputs, indexes, outputs and props.
These are the conf files I see and work with most often.
There are a lot of other conf files as well, and this is one of those times where I'm going to refer
you to the Splunk documentation.
The resource to view is definitely the Splunk docs.
So first of all, what do these files do?
Basically inputs dot conf defines data inputs such as source types or files indexes dot conf Manages
index storage locations.
Remember buckets on disk and things like data retention policies.
Outputs.
Manages data forwarding settings on a forwarder.
Props conf manages things like timestamps and field extractions.
Remember, every behavior that Splunk does is governed by a conf file.
Every change you make in Splunk Web or Splunk UI is written to a config file.
Therefore, you can actually edit config files directly to change the settings and behavior of Splunk
inside a config file is pretty simple.
It's built on stanzas and settings, so a config file has a bunch of stanzas with a bunch of settings
under it.
If you go to Splunk docs, you can see example config files.
Splunk can be extended with multiple products, thousands of apps and add ons.
You can find those at Splunk base and Splunk also offers a suite of developer tools through which you
can build your own apps, which include things like custom data models and configuration files.


=== Installing Splunk ===


--- Splunk Cloud Platform Overview and Demo ---

The Splunk Cloud platform is another option for deploying Splunk.
Like many options in the cloud, this means that you get Splunk as a service.
You get all the benefits of Splunk Enterprise without having to manage all the components and infrastructure
directly.
Splunk updates and patches everything for you automatically, and it's stored at Splunk's highly secure
data centers.
For this class, I do recommend you create a free 14 day trial of Splunk Cloud to follow some of the
demos, including the demo we will do in just a moment, as well as the homework for this section.
The downside to Splunk Cloud is licensing fees.
We'll go into more detail on Splunk Cloud and Splunk Enterprise throughout this course.
I'm now going to show you how to create Splunk Cloud Platform 14 day free trial.
So please follow along with me and we'll create our Splunk instance, and then we'll do some basic Splunk
searches and create a basic dashboard.
So first of all go to Splunk Comm.
Click on Trials and Downloads.
Under Splunk Cloud platform click Get My free trial.
And start a new account.
Or if you already have an account, click Log in.
Once you've created your account, Splunk will send you a verification email that looks like this.
And go ahead and click on the Verify your Email button or copy and paste the URL you see there.
Now you'll get another email from Splunk showing you your Splunk Cloud URL and login credentials.
And that email will look something like this.
So go ahead and copy that URL and paste it in the browser and make note of your username and temporary
password.
Now here's our Splunk Cloud instance.
So let's log in with the username and temporary password that we've been assigned.
And it will make you reset your password.
Accept the license terms.
And here we are in Splunk web user experience.
We can see all of the installed apps on the left side.
We can see a bunch of options in the main pane.
But I want to point your direction up to settings.
Settings is where we will configure most of our Splunk instances in this course.
In settings we can configure data inputs, indexes, source types, data models, and all kinds of things.
The most used app is the search and reporting app that is the app that lets you search through your
data and build reports.
So let's try that now.
Click on Search and Reporting.
Now we have the search bar.
We have the time picker.
We have the search button and we have the search history.
What we're going to do now is search through the Splunk internal logs, which come with every Splunk
instance.
And we'll see if we can get some insights from those logs.
And it's completely okay if you don't quite understand what we're doing or what's going on at this point.
This is really just to get your feet wet into Splunk and to be able to build a simple dashboard by the
end of the course.
I promise you'll understand everything we're doing here, but please follow along because this will
also allow you to complete the homework.
So in the search bar type index.
Equals Underscore internal.
This is a special index or storage area that Splunk uses to store its internal logs.
And on the time picker, choose all time.
And click search.
Now we have a lot of data for a brand new Splunk instance.
Notice on the Field Explorer on the left side, Splunk has determined some fields that might be of interest
to us.
And we can click on these for more detail.
The numbers next to the field show how many unique values Splunk has detected for that field.
So for Splunk server, there's only one value.
And that is the name of this Splunk server.
But for group there are 58 values.
One easy way to start searching is to use basic keywords.
Let's keep our index at underscore internal, but let's search for the keyword error.
Keep the time picker on all time and click search.
Now we've narrowed it down to 27,000 events.
And Splunk has determined some fields that might be of interest here.
For example, what about alt error code name that has four values.
And we have handshake failed host unreachable namespace not found and no matching document with SSL
handshake failed.
Being by far the most occurring error.
So let's add that to the search by clicking on it.
So now our search is index equals underscore internal keyword error.
And then attribute error.
Code name equals SSL.
Handshake failed.
Now let's get rid of that keyword error because we're being more precise now.
And we'll search again.
Now we only have 18,000 events.
Now, maybe this is an important error to know about and to know when it's happening for our business.
So one thing we can do is we can count the number of these errors happening over time.
So let's put a pipe and that's usually right above your enter key on your keyboard.
And we're going to use the command stats and then count.
Now let's move the time picker back to 24 hours.
And now we can see we have a count of 6160.
Now each new day that passes this will change because we are only searching the last 24 hours.
But that's kind of boring to just say 6160.
What I want to do is a single value visualization.
And never underestimate the single value visualization in Splunk.
So let's click on visualization.
And under chart choose Single Value.
Now let's format it just a bit.
In the caption we'll put SSL handshake failed last 24 hours.
Now for colors.
Let's say we have some thresholds.
Let's get rid of some of these.
Let's say anything above 1000 we're concerned about.
So from 1000 to max it's going to be red up to 1000.
Let's make it yellow.
It's caution.
And from min to let's say 500 it's green.
So we have minimum to 500 is green, 500 to 1000 is yellow and 1000 and above is red.
So right now we're in the red.
I like to also do this color mode where the block background is the color.
And let's see what else we can do here.
And that is number format.
We don't need to be really any more precise.
There will be no decimals in the number of errors.
So let's close this.
Now.
Let's make a new dashboard and use this as the first panel of our new dashboard.
So we're going to click Save as New Dashboard.
And let's call the dashboard the error dashboard.
We'll leave the description blank for now.
And permissions we'll share it with the app.
And for now let's use classic dashboards I'll show you Dashboard Studio later in the course.
The panel title will be SSL Handshake Failed.
We'll keep the visualization type at single value and we won't worry about advanced panel settings right
now.
Let's click Save to Dashboard and let's not view the dashboard quite yet.
Let's create one more visualization to create our next visualization.
Let's click back on events and let's still use index equals internal.
Let's erase this and we'll do stats count by status.
We'll still use last 24 hours.
Now you can see this brings up 690,000 events.
And we have statuses that are numbers.
And we have one status that is success.
And we have a different counts for each of those statuses.
And even though right now we don't know what these status numbers actually mean, for the purpose of
this demo, in making this dashboard, we're going to assume that the company knows what these status
numbers mean.
Alternately, we could create a lookup table that renames these numbers To status descriptions, but
that's a little bit more of an advanced topic.
So let's make a visualization.
And this time change the chart to pie chart.
Okay.
Now we have a pie chart that shows a comparison of all of our statuses.
And status number 200 is by far the largest status.
Success is very very small, just a sliver, which might be concerning.
But let's create this as another dashboard panel.
So save as existing dashboard.
And we called our dashboard the error dashboard.
And the panel title should be Comparison of status.
Click save to dashboard.
And this time let's view the dashboard.
Here's our dashboard.
And if we edit it we can do even more things with it.
Like move these panels side by side as they should be.
Click save.
And now we've built a very basic dashboard in Splunk Cloud using Splunk internal data.
I hope that was fun and I hope that inspires you to continue on in the rest of this class, because
the rest of this class is fun as well.
Congratulations!
You made it through the very first section of this course!
I'm so excited that you're still with us!
In this course we introduce you to the course.
Of course we told you how to be successful and where to get help.
We gave you a brief introduction to Splunk, Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Clouds.
We talked about Splunk products, apps, add ons.
We talked about how you can train Splunk with your data and build intelligent systems that actually
make sense to people.
We talked about how Splunk can turn any type of data into insights.
We discussed the difference between Splunk Cloud Platform and Splunk Enterprise and how you can extend
Splunk.
Thank you for joining me in this section, and I'll see you in the next section.


=== Basic Searching ===


--- Deploying Splunk and the Splunk Data Pipeline ---

Deploying Splunk.
Welcome back.
And in this section we'll talk about Splunk data pipeline deployment models using Splunk validated architecture
for both Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud platform.
We'll discuss how Splunk stores data on disk.
We'll talk about licensing and configuration files and apps and add ons.
There's a lot of content in this section, and I hope you are as excited as I am to get started.
The Splunk data pipeline.
This is one of those core things about this class that you should understand and keep with you throughout
the duration of this course.
The Splunk data pipeline has four pieces input, parsing, indexing, and searching.
No matter the type of deployment, the Splunk data pipeline is the same.
And I remember it with APIs in Splunk Enterprise.
To scale your system, you can split this functionality across multiple specialized instances of Splunk
Enterprise.
That's right.
All of these things happen in Splunk Enterprise installation just configured differently.
The exception, of course, is the Universal Forwarder, which we'll talk about a bit later.
During the input phase, Splunk consumes data from sources, either directly or through forwarders,
or file uploads, or the HTTP event collector, or other ways.
It's important to note that Splunk does not look at the contents of the data during the input phase.
That's reserved for the parsing phase.
Parsing usually happens on the indexer in a small deployment.
It can happen on the search head slash indexer combo, and in a really large deployment, it might happen
on a heavy forwarder.
Parsing is where Splunk takes the raw data and creates events out of the data.
Remember, an event is just one line of data that contains, at a minimum, the Splunk default fields.
Splunk also identifies timestamps at this stage and annotates the data with some metadata.
During the indexing phase, Splunk takes the parsed data and writes it to indexes on disk, which are
just directories in the file system of the indexer.
These are just flat files that are stored in various directories, and Splunk calls them buckets.
The searching phase is the one that perhaps we are all familiar with.
This is the phase that manages all aspects of how the user interacts with the data.


=== Splunk Knowledge Objects ===


--- Splunk Architecture and Deployment Models ---

The Splunk documentation is a great resource for Splunk approved, validated architectures.
So let's talk about deployment models.
While Splunk has several products, as we've talked about before, in this course we will focus on the
core, which is the Splunk platform.
The Splunk platform includes the core products of Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud Platform.
The primary difference, of course, between these two products is that one is Splunk as a service Splunk
cloud platform.
This is where Splunk handles all the infrastructure for you.
The other Splunk Enterprise is the traditional model of building out your own distributed Splunk environment.
So I want to talk about Splunk Enterprise deployment models first.
Remember from our last discussion that the architecture of Splunk Enterprise is built on Splunk components?
Components are simply instances of Splunk Enterprise.
Again, I have to say, except universal forwarders.
Okay.
Let's look at some Splunk validated architectures.
Of course there are a lot of them.
And we can't talk about all of them in this course.
But I want to go through some basic ones.
And you can study the others on the Splunk docs if you like.
The first one is called Single Server Deployment or S1.
In the previous slide, we saw Splunk components that would go into each of these areas.
Do you know what they are for fun?
Pause the video here and think about which Splunk components might go into each of these boxes.
Ready?
In an S1 single server, we have a search head and indexer, and they're the same component S1.
Deployments are designed for a daily data ingest of 500 gigs and a small number of users.
Splunk recommends S1 for non-critical data.
So back up to our S1 architecture.
We actually don't need a management component.
However, the Splunk Monitoring Console is a free component that comes with your Splunk Enterprise license
and helps you have visibility even into your small deployment.
And then, of course, in the collection tier, we have network inputs or forwarders or other types
of data collection.
The next validated architecture is the C1 or distributed clustered environment for a single site.
In this architecture, we separate the search and indexing tier so that we can deploy indexer clusters
to get more Splunk advantages like high availability.
We're building modular, composable, and scalable architecture as we get into these larger Splunk deployments.
Now again, pause the video here and see if you can guess which components go into which tier.
In the C1 distributed cluster deployment for a single site, we have one or more standalone search heads,
not in a cluster.
We have an indexer cluster with data replication and we have multiple load balanced collection inputs
often forwarders.
And in the management tier we have a license manager, the monitoring console, the indexer cluster
manager and a deployment server to help manage all the deployment clients.
Now let's talk about the C3 or C13 architecture.
And this is called Distributed Clustered Environment with search head clustering for a single site.
It's the same basic architecture as the last one, C1.
But this time we're also creating search head clusters in addition to indexer clusters.
So in this configuration we build a search head cluster governed by a deployer, not a deployment server.
The deployer governs the members of the search head cluster.
It distributes apps, files, configuration updates, and more to all of the members through what is
called a configuration bundle.
A search head cluster is a group of search heads that serves as a central resource for searching.
You can run the same searches, view the same dashboards, and access the same search results from any
of the search heads in the cluster.
One of the cluster members is assigned to be the search head cluster captain, and schedules jobs and
replication activities among the cluster.
So in the C3 architecture, we have a search head cluster managed by a deployer.
We have an indexer cluster managed by the cluster manager.
And we have load balanced distributed collection tier components managed by the deployment server.
And the license manager of course manages all of the licensed components.
They all check in with the license manager to make sure they have a legitimate Splunk license.
Now let's talk about basic architecture for Splunk Cloud Platform.
Splunk Cloud Platform is delivered and maintained by Splunk.
It's Splunk as a service.
It's delivered as a cloud based service where Splunk manages all the infrastructure, and you get most
of the same benefits of building your Splunk Enterprise deployment, with a few key differences that
I want to discuss.
In this architecture, you are in charge of the collection tier and some parts of the management tier,
but for the most part the other components are managed by Splunk.
Splunk Cloud Platform can accept and process almost all of the same types of data as Splunk Enterprise
Plus.
It has some unique input options.
Most of the time, you'll get data into Splunk Cloud by using forwarders, but there are lots of ways
to get data into Splunk Cloud.
As you can see here, we can still do directory, file and network inputs, but we send them to forwarders
first, and then the forwarders send the data to Splunk Cloud, where directory or file input might
be a direct collection event in Splunk Enterprise.
One really nice thing about Splunk Cloud is you can use AWS Data Firehose.
This streams your data from AWS directly into Splunk Cloud, and if you want to do advanced data processing,
you can use the Splunk Edge processor.
And these are solutions provided by Splunk that can be used for advanced data processing and routing
before it gets to Splunk Cloud.
Let's talk about subscription types.
Like most cloud offerings, Splunk is subscription based and the costs can either be based on workload.
This is the usage of compute and storage or data ingestion based based on how many gigabytes of data
Splunk consumes per day.
There are some restrictions on Splunk apps when you're using Splunk Cloud.
Only vetted and compatible apps are approved to use on Splunk Cloud.
Some apps can be self installed through the app browser, others require a support ticket to be submitted
to Splunk.
Private apps that you build yourself are supported, but they're vetted by Splunk before you can install
them.
Also, in Splunk Cloud, you don't have access to the command line interface or any underlying infrastructure.
That means you won't be able to edit configuration files or do any CLI functions without submitting
a support ticket to Splunk.


=== Visualizing Your Data ===


--- How Splunk Stores Data ---

How Splunk stores data.
Data is stored in indexes in Splunk.
And I am going to say indexes, because saying indices sounds really weird to me.
An index is simply a repository for Splunk data.
When Splunk consumes and processes raw data, it first transforms that data into events and then it
stores it in indexes.
And indexes are just directories in the file system.
In other words, they're just mapped places on disk.
And Splunk calls these buckets.
Splunk comes built in with several indexes.
And you can create your own indexes as well.
The default index is called main.
Splunk also has an underscore internal index and some other internal indexes as well.
Remember that an event is a single row of data.
So inside an index is a bunch of events.
Here are two example events for fictional hosts web one and web two.
An event is a single row of data made up of fields.
Fields are key value pairs.
They have a field name and an associated value with that field.
So IP address equals and then the IP address that would be a field.
Much of the time raw data being ingested by Splunk does not have clear key value pairs.
So the Splunk engine detects key value pairs in the data and automatically assigns them to fields.
Splunk adds default fields as well to all events.
These fields are underscore, time index, host source, and source type.
Here's an example of an Apache log that I found on Apache's website.
Notice we have values but no keys.
Let's try to be human Splunk and match the default fields to the values in this Apache log.
For the time field, Splunk automatically extracts the timestamp from the beginning of this log line,
so the time field would be Friday, September 9th.
It looks like 2011.
For the host field, Splunk just assigns the hostname of the machine sending the data in most cases.
So this is something that's unknown right now.
The source field refers to the file or input from which Splunk received the event.
For logs, it's typically the full path to the log file, which again we don't know, but it could be
the default path to Apache log files.
For example var log apache2 slash error log and source type identifies the data type Splunk has built
in knowledge for various data types, and Apache error is a common source type for Apache error logs.
In Splunk, an index contains compressed raw data and associated index files.
These index files are spread out into different directories depending on their age.
Splunk calls these directories buckets.
There are five buckets and a fish bucket, but the fish bucket is outside of the scope of this class.
I encourage you to read the docs on the fish bucket.
So let's start with the hot bucket.
The hot bucket contains newly indexed data.
The hot bucket is actively written to an index can have one or more hot buckets.
Once aged out, the data is rolled to a warm bucket.
Warm buckets have no active writing and an index can have many warm buckets.
Next, the data is rolled on to the cold bucket.
An index has many cold buckets.
Next, the data goes to the frozen bucket.
The Splunk indexer deletes frozen bucket data by default, but you can choose to archive that data.
And then when you need to unarchive that data, it goes to the thawed bucket.
Thawed buckets contain data that are restored from an archive.
You can set the index bucket ages by modifying the configuration file index dot conf.
Here's where the buckets are stored on disk in these directories.
And these buckets are subdirectories of the index directory.
In this case, default db is the index directory for the index called main, which is the default index
of Splunk.
For example, in the hot path after the db slash, we can have multiple hot buckets.
That's why I put an asterisk there.
Buckets have specific naming conventions within their subdirectories, but we don't need to go into
that right now.
A newer and interesting component of Splunk is the smart store.
As a deployments data volume increases, demand for storage typically outpaces demand for compute resources.
Smart store allows you to manage your indexer, storage, and compute resources in a cost effective
manner by scaling those resources separately.
Smart store is an indexer capability that provides a way to use remote object stores like Amazon S3,
Google Cloud Storage Buckets, or Microsoft Azure Blob Storage.


=== The Splunk Common Information Model ===


--- Splunk Enterprise Licensing ---

Splunk Enterprise Licensing.
Everybody loves talking about licensing.
I know how excited you are for this segment.
Each Splunk Software instance requires a license.
Anything that indexes data requires a license.
And there are two types of license for Splunk enterprise volume based and infrastructure.
In volume based licensing, you get all the access to Splunk features, and your license is measured
by data indexed per day on a 24 hour clock, not data stored.
Keep that in mind.
Data indexed per day.
Data indexing volume is measured from midnight to midnight by the clock on the license manager.
There is also data that is indexed that does not count against your volume based licensing, and that
is Splunk internal log data, duplicate data and metadata.
The second choice is infrastructure licensing.
As organizations have moved more data to Splunk and their usage patterns evolved.
Example lots of data ingested but less frequently searched or very high search activity on smaller data
sets.
The ingest based model sometimes felt misaligned with the value customers derived.
It also incentivized data filtering at the source, potentially losing valuable context.
So Splunk comes up with this infrastructure licensing model.
These are physical or logical cores, virtual cores, etc., and Splunk uses the CPU's reported by the
operating system.
Splunk.
Internal log data.
Duplicate data and metadata don't count against your licensing.
And remember, all search heads and indexers count towards Vcpu capacity.
Just like all search heads and indexers count towards data ingestion and the other licensing type.
These are the components that need to be licensed back to volume based licensing for a moment.
What if you exceed your Splunk volume?
If you exceed your licensed daily volume on any one calendar day, you get a warning, but search is
not disabled.
But here's the tricky part licenses volume of less than 100GB per day.
If you generate 45 license warnings within a 60 day period, you're in violation and that license stack
will not be searchable.
You need to contact Splunk to reset that license.
So if your volume is over 100GB per day, Splunk does not disable your search.
I guess they assume you're paying more money for Splunk, so they're not going to disable your search.
Anything that indexes data needs a license.
So that could include heavy forwarders though not always.
There is a forwarder license as well that doesn't cost any money.
Search heads and indexers definitely need licenses.
In a distributed environment.
You will set up a license manager and have all licensed components of Splunk.
Talk to the license Manager to get their license.
License pools are created from licensed stacks.
Specific quantities of licensing volume can be allocated for specific purposes.
The License Manager manages all the license pools, indexers, and other Splunk Enterprise components
that need licenses are assigned to a particular license pool.
Splunk recommends not assigning forwarders to a license pool since they have unique license types,
usually a forwarder license.
So here's how this looks a license group is a set of licenses that can be installed together.
A license manager can only manage one license group.
So this is your big bucket.
All of your licenses are in your license group.
When you purchase licenses from Splunk, they come in a license file.
You can purchase more than one license file that has different capabilities.
And you can stack those license files.
So the capabilities add up.
That's called a license stack.
Now you can take the combined resources of a license stack and assign them to a license pool.
The pool can contain all of the license stack or some of the license stack.
License pools are created to assign to specific resources that need specific capabilities.
I know this is a little bit confusing, but I encourage you to read the Splunk docs on licensing as
well.


=== Intermediate Searching and The Future with SPL2 ===


--- Configuration Files, Apps, and Add-ons ---

Configuration files and apps.
And this will just be an introduction.
We'll have more to say on configuration files and apps throughout the course.
Everything Splunk does is governed by configuration files.
Configuration files are stored in the Etsy directory, either in the root Splunk Etsy directory or in
the app Etsy directory, and they have the dot conf or conf extension configuration files are layered.
That is, you can have configuration files that have the same name in different directories, and the
precedence depends on what you're actually doing.
In Splunk there's a tool called Be tool that shows you exactly how Splunk is determining which configuration
files to use.
The Etsy app name default directory contains pre-configured versions of conf files.
You shouldn't edit these conf files.
You should edit the local directory conf files.
If you look inside a configuration file, it's really pretty simple.
They're built on stanzas and then under stanzas they have attributes and values.
It is important to note that Splunk s global configuration files are found in the directory Etsy and
then system.
And you can see a list of the global configuration files here under default.
Remember don't ever edit the default files.
That's what the local directory is for.
And just for fun, let's have a look inside the inputs conf file a very important configuration file.
And here we see how configuration files are built.
They're built on stanzas and attributes.
The majority of apps in Splunk are made from configuration files as well.
Apps extend Splunk functionality and enhance the user experience with built in dashboards, reports,
alerts, saved searches, and all kinds of other things.
There's another category called add ons.
Add ons primarily support apps.
They enrich the incoming data with tags, data models and data sets.
Apps and add ons can be created by individuals, third party companies, or Splunk.
Apps and add ons built by Splunk carry the Splunk build logo apps and add ons that are certified by
Splunk carry the Splunk certified logo.
An app is a collection of mostly Splunk configuration files, but also includes views, knowledge objects,
and sometimes add ons.
An add on is a subset of an app, and they specify data collection, but don't have graphical user interfaces
that you can interact with.
Okay, we covered a lot in this section.
We covered Splunk deployment topologies and when to use them for both Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud
Platform.
We talked about indexes and how Splunk stores data.
We went over the exciting world of licensing, and we talked about extending Splunk with apps and add
ons.
I really thank you for joining me in this section, and I'll see you in the next one.


=== Splunk Practice Tests ===


--- Getting Data In and The Splunk Data Pipeline ---

Welcome to this short but very important topic of getting data into Splunk.
In this section we'll talk about Splunk data pipeline.
We'll go over general input types for Splunk.
And then we'll talk about heavy and universal forwarders.
After this section, we'll be well prepared to build our lab and start installing Splunk.
In the next section the Splunk data pipeline.
Let's review the Splunk data pipeline recall from earlier in the course where we talked about Splunk
data pipeline.
I said we'd talk about it again later.
And well, that time is now.
So we have input parsing indexing and search.
And we have specific things that Splunk does at each of these stages.
And we also have specific components that Splunk uses at each of these stages.
In the input segment, Splunk software consumes the data.
It acquires the raw data stream from its source, breaks it into 60 4k blocks, and annotates each block
with some metadata keys.
This is from Splunk documentation.
The keys apply to the entire input source.
Overall, these are the default fields.
They include host, source and source type, among others.
It is important to note that during this phase, Splunk Software does not look at the contents of the
data stream.
So the key is applied to the entire source, not to the individual events.
In fact, at this point, Splunk Software has no notion of individual events at all, only the data
stream.
During the parsing segment, the Splunk software examines, analyzes, and transforms the data.
This is also known as event processing.
This is where it actually creates events out of the raw data stream.
Remember, events represent a single line of data that has, at a minimum, the Splunk default fields
of time, host source, and source type.
And it does any transformations needed on the data.
So if you have a specific regex field extraction for that data source that's taken care of in the parsing
phase during indexing, Splunk indexes the data.
It stores the data on disk in buckets.
It writes both compressed raw data and the corresponding index files into those buckets.
And finally, in the search phase, this is where Splunk and the user manages all aspects of how the
user accesses, views and uses the indexed data.
When we're interacting with Splunk, web building reports, alerts and dashboards, building and storing
other user created knowledge objects, and of course, the search engine or the search process itself.

--- Splunk Inputs ---

Let's take a look at Splunk general input categories.
Data comes from somewhere in the organization.
Often it's a data lake that has unstructured or semi-structured data.
And also often it comes from databases that really contain structured data in rows and columns and related
tables.
It's becoming more common to have message queues, and Splunk can accept message queue data through
scripted and API inputs.
This is like pub sub data, if you're familiar with that.
Software as a service and platform as a service, data is super important to consume.
So we're talking about things like HubSpot, Salesforce, ServiceNow, slack and Teams workday.
All of the SaaS and pass platforms that modern workplaces use.
Splunk can and should consume all of this data for analysis and also infrastructure as a service.
If you have infrastructure on Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, or even
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, then we have file and directory inputs.
We can monitor files and directories both locally, meaning on the same search head instance or remotely
using a forwarder.
Or we can actually just send TCP data straight to Splunk if we want to.
Although best practice is to use a forwarder.
Splunk can also monitor compressed files.
We can upload data to Splunk.
Uploaded data is usually used for one time analysis, which is what we will do with our sample homework
data.
And it's important to note that Splunk has a monitor no handle.
This is for windows hosts and monitors files and directories that the system rotates automatically.
This is a windows thing where there are certain directories that windows will rotate automatically.
Splunk has a input category that can handle that data.
Next is network inputs.
This is data from TCP and UDP.
Splunk does not recommend sending UDP data to Splunk because there's no guarantee that it'll actually
get there.
So TCP is the standard we should use.
Although Splunk can accept data from UDP, syslog is really popular, but it's not best practice to
send syslog straight to Splunk.
You should use the Splunk Connector for syslog.
And then of course we have windows inputs.
I already talked about monitor no handle, but Splunk can also monitor and forward event logs, registry,
Active Directory, windows Management, Perfmon, etc..
Some other data sources that we should talk about that are important Fifo first in first out queues
is data that you don't intend to keep in the Splunk environment.
Perhaps the data is stored somewhere else, but you still want to run it through Splunk for analysis.
So this data is not stored in Splunk, but you still want to analyze it even though it's stored somewhere
else.
So we can do that with Splunk using Fifo queues.
Metrics.
Metrics represent a single measurement at a specific point in time.
They are multidimensional.
So many databases or SaaS applications might send metric based data.
SNMP or network monitoring data could very well be metric data.
So Splunk can handle this type of data as well.
And then modular inputs allow you to build functionality for ingesting unique data inputs.
For example, if you have a little script that has to query a specific thing on a database, that would
be a modular input.
It's also good for handling sensitive or complex data.
And I would be remiss if I didn't talk about the heck the HTTP event collector the heck comes built
into Splunk Cloud, but for Splunk Enterprise you can install the heck and collect web based data.
So HTTP Event Collector lets you send data and events over the HTTP.

--- Configuring Inputs ---

Basic settings for an input.
There are really three ways to set up an input in Splunk.
The first one is through an app.
Many apps have pre-configured inputs.
When you install an app from Splunk base, either a vendor app or Splunk made app, they often come
with pre-configured inputs.
For example, the Splunk app for Microsoft Exchange comes with a bunch of pre-configured inputs that
are just built to handle Microsoft Exchange data.
We can also configure inputs through Splunk Web.
We just go to settings and then Data inputs.
There's also guided data onboarding or Gdo.
If you go to settings and then add data, you can go through a little wizard that asks you what kind
of data do you want to import?
And it will guide you through getting that data into Splunk.
And then everybody loves the command line interface, the CLI.
So we can, as we did earlier in this course, Splunk add monitor path that's in Linux or in windows.
Splunk add monitor path.
We can also edit configuration files directly for forwarders.
The inputs conf file controls how the forwarder collects data and the outputs conf file controls how
the forwarder sends data.

--- Forwarders ---

Splunk forwarder types.
We've talked about these before, but Splunk has two main forwarder types and there are others as well.
But these are the ones that you will most often see.
The universal forwarder and the heavy forwarder.
The universal forwarder collects data from a data source and forwards it to a receiver.
And that's about it.
You configure data that you want it to forward and it just forwards it.
It's kind of a dumb but lightweight agent.
We configured a universal forwarder earlier in the course.
Interestingly, the source could be another forwarder in a highly distributed Splunk environment, but
it's most often data that you want to capture from a remote system.
Both types of forwarders forward data to either indexers or index clusters, or index search head combos.
The universal forwarder is the only component that is not a full Splunk Enterprise instance.
Heavy forwarders, on the other hand, are full enterprise Splunk instances.
It's an advanced type of forwarder and you do need to apply a forwarder license.
Forwarders can parse and index data as well as forward data.
Quick review of steps to configure a universal forwarder.
And we went over this in detail earlier in the course.
But basically you can figure receiving on a Splunk indexer or search head.
You download and install the Universal forwarder on the remote system.
You configure the least privileged user in Linux, which is Splunk.
Then you configure the universal forwarder to send data and where to send it to, and you can configure
it to collect data from the host system before it sends.
Quick note in ubuntu to start it is Splunk start in windows.
You can do Splunk Start or you can go to the Windows Services panel.
Right click on the forwarder service and start it that way.
And high level overview of heavy forwarder configuration steps.
Still, we configure receiving on the indexer or search head.
We install a full Splunk Enterprise instance.
We enable forwarding on the instance by going to Settings Forwarding and Receiving and Configure forwarding.
So it's kind of like configuring receiving except it's just configuring forwarding.
That was a fun section wasn't it.
In this section we covered the Splunk data pipeline.
We talked about types of inputs for Splunk.
And we talked about heavy and universal forwarders and the basic steps to install them.
Thank you for joining me in this section and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Introduction ---

Installing Splunk.
In this section we're going to install Splunk search head slash indexer combos as well as Splunk Universal
and Heavy Forwarders and will forward data into our search head slash indexer combo.
Before we do that, I want to show you how I created my lab that I'm using to create this class.
We'll walk through every step.
We'll download and install a hypervisor, in my case, VirtualBox.
We'll download and install a Linux operating system image.
In my case Ubuntu Server.
We'll install and configure ubuntu on the virtual machine.
Then since I'm operating in a windows environment, I'll download and install Putty, which is a remote
access terminal for windows users.
That's a lot easier to use, at least in my opinion, than VirtualBox.
Then I'll show you how to clone the virtual machine, and we'll use the Linux machine to forward data
into the first Linux machine, which is our search head indexer combo.
Then I'll show you how to create a windows Virtual machine by downloading the Microsoft Windows trial
and installing that on a virtual machine.
After we create the lab, then we'll install Splunk on the virtual machines.
We'll install Splunk on the Linux machine.
That's going to act as my main search head, index or combination.
Then we'll clone that machine so it will have the exact same version of Linux and the exact same settings,
but it will begin as a heavy forwarder.
The third machine, the windows machine, will serve various purposes, and I will also install Splunk
on a mac, but that's not going to be part of my virtual machine stack.
That's actually going to be my Mac laptop.
Then we'll install and configure heavy forwarders.
We'll do heavy forwarders before we do universal forwarders because in my opinion, heavy forwarders
are actually easier to install.
Then we'll install universal forwarders and I will do windows, Mac and Linux for all of these.
At the end of building my lab, here's what it looks like.
I have two Ubuntu Linux machines, one called Splunk.
That's my main search and indexer combo, and one called Splunk.
Then I'm going to use for Linux forwarders and a third machine called Splunk Windows that I'm going
to use for various purposes.
And again I have my Mac laptop as well.
We'll also talk about how to get data into Splunk Cloud platform with a forwarder.
You should have installed Splunk Cloud Platform in section one, but it's really easy.
You just go to Splunk Comm and create yourself a 14 day free trial.
So let's get started building the lab.
And again, this is optional, but I'll see you after the lab video.

--- Building a Lab (With Demo) ---

To install VirtualBox we're going to first go to virtualbox.org.
And then over in the Get Started box click download.
Then on the left you'll see all the options for downloading.
Pick the operating system that you're using I'm using windows, but as you can see Mac, Linux and Solaris
are all supported.
Once you download the VirtualBox installer from VirtualBox, it brings up the standard windows installation
wizard, and you can just click on next.
On most of these things.
However, there is one thing I will change.
I don't want a shortcut in the quick launch bar.
Now we have VirtualBox up and running, which is the hypervisor.
But to create a virtual machine we actually need an operating system.
So let's download a distribution of Linux called ubuntu.
If you're more familiar with another version of Linux, you're welcome to download that one as well.
And here I have ubuntu.com and I'm going to download Ubuntu Server.
And to do that we go up to products and then click on Ubuntu Server.
Then click on Download Ubuntu Server.
Then grab the latest version and we'll have the ISO in our downloads folder.
Now we can create a new virtual machine because we have an operating system.
So click on new and we'll fill out the virtual machine information.
I'm going to call this one Splunk.
The ISO image will have to point it to which is in our downloads folder.
And make sure everything looks good.
Linux ubuntu, ubuntu 64 bit I like the unattended install.
It's really nice.
Make note of your username and password.
These will be your admin credentials on your new Linux machine.
And we're going to pump up the hardware a little bit because I know we're going to install Splunk on
this.
So let's make the base memory eight gigs and give it at least two processors.
And on the hard disk we don't want a wimpy 25 gig.
Right.
Let's make it at least 50 gig for Splunk.
Everything else is fine.
So let's go ahead and click finish.
Oh, don't forget to put that password up there for the unattended install.
Now we can simply click start to start the virtual machine and start the unattended install which VirtualBox
is now doing.
If we open the virtual machine we can actually see Ubuntu Linux being installed.
Once it's finished to clear some of this screen.
I'm just going to type the word clear.
Now notice we are the root user.
So after Linux installs in the unattended install it gives us root user access.
So I'm going to use this opportunity to do a Linux update in ubuntu.
That means apt get update.
I also want to be able to remotely connect to this machine using SSH.
So once this update is installed, I'm also going to install OpenSSH server.
And to do that I'll use apt space install.
OpenSSH server.
This will let us connect using our terminal in another Linux box, or our terminal in a mac OS environment,
or a program called Putty in windows and I'll be using putty.
So I will show you how to download putty next.
Keep in mind, though, that it's almost never a good idea to operate as the root user in a Linux system.
Since I've installed everything I want to install, I'm going to make one more change in VirtualBox
to this virtual machine, and then we'll restart the system and log in as VBox user.
I'm going to change the network adapter on this system from Nat to bridged so that it's actually part
of my network.
So we're going to go to settings and then network and then change that to bridged adapter.
And then promiscuous mode allow all just for fun.
Click okay.
And let's go back into the machine and simply type reboot.
And that will reboot our machine.
And now we can log in as VBox user and the password we created when we created the machine.
We need to make note of two things.
What is our IP address by typing IP addr.
And there it is 192.168.1.46.
We also need to know whether SSH server is running.
We can find that out by typing systemctl status ssh.
Looks like it's disabled.
So we need to actually start it.
And we can start it by typing sudo systemctl start ssh sudo gives us temporary root access for this
one action.
So we do need our vbox user password.
This command will make sure that the SSH server is enabled every time you reboot your machine.
The next thing we need to do if you're on a windows machine is download and install putty.
Putty makes it so we can remotely connect to any of our machines through SSH, and it gives us an enhanced
user experience and the ability to copy and paste which VirtualBox console does not allow us to do.
From putty.org.
Click on Download Putty and then let's download the MSI installer for 64 bit.
Because I'm running Windows 11 for the sake of time, I won't show you me going through the windows
installation wizard for putty.
Once you have putty installed and our virtual machine is operating, we need to type in the IP address
here in the hostname.
Remember what it is 1.46.
Click open.
Accept that and we'll log in as VBox user and the same vbox user password.
Now we're in our machine remotely.
Since I've configured everything I need to configure in this virtual machine, I'm going to consider
it my gold standard virtual machine.
For this course, we'll need a few virtual machines.
So let's shut this one down.
As the gold standard.
We can use the shutdown command or simply right click on the machine in VirtualBox.
Choose stop, then choose Acpi shutdown.
Once it's fully shut down, we will clone the machine to make an exact copy by right clicking and choose
clone.
Now let's name this new machine Splunk F1, because we're going to install a Splunk forwarder on it
later.
Click finish and the machine will begin copying.
Now we have Splunk machine.
I want to change one setting on it by selecting the virtual machine, then clicking settings at the
top and then network so that the network doesn't think it's the same machine.
So just refresh that Mac address a few times and click okay.
To create a windows Virtual machine we first need to download windows.
So I went to the Microsoft Software Download Center and Windows 11 using this URL.
And make sure you use the ISO for x64 devices.
Choose Windows 11 and download.
Now choose your language and confirm.
And then choose 64 bit download and save it in your downloads folder.
This is a large file, so it could take some time.
Once the file is downloaded, we can create a new virtual machine by clicking on new.
I'm going to call this machine Splunk Windows.
Then for ISO image I'm going to point it to the ISO image we just downloaded.
It's in our downloads folder.
So I'm going to choose other and it will go to our downloads folder.
And there's our file right there.
The type looks good and the version looks good.
So let's do our unattended install.
This is where it installs without much user input at all.
I'm going to use the VBox user default username, and I'm going to check that guest edition's box.
This will install VirtualBox Guest Additions, which has a lot of tools that enhance the virtual machine
experience under hardware.
I'm going to give this machine at least eight gigabytes of Ram or memory and at least two processors.
Remember, this is windows and I'm going to give it at least a 100 gig hard drive.
Everything else looks good.
But where is that finish button not lighting up?
Oh, I forgot to put the password in the unattended install.
Now you can see VirtualBox is starting the unattended install and we can watch it happen.
It does need your input for the product key.
For our purposes we can just select I don't have a product key.
And it will let us do a free trial of Windows 11 which is sufficient for this course.
While it's getting things ready for us, I'm going to go back to VirtualBox And change our network adapter
by going to settings, then network, and then change that Nat to bridged.
That way it will be on our network and we can allow all promiscuous mode just to be crazy.
And click okay.
And our windows machine is finally finishing up.
And the next thing I want to do is install VirtualBox guest additions.
So I'm going to go to File Explorer and you'll see a CD drive there with VirtualBox guest additions
mounted.
We're just going to run this little script and it will install guest additions for us automatically.
Then I'm going to restart the machine.
And now we have a running Windows Virtual machine.

--- Forwarding Data into Splunk Cloud Platform ---

Instructor: Forwarding data
into Splunk Cloud platform.
And for this we're going to use a Windows Forwarder.
I'm gonna list the steps here as an outline,
but then of course, follow along as I do the demo.
So the first step is to go back
to our Splunk Cloud Platform search head
that we already provisioned.
We're gonna click on the "Universal Forwarder" button
to download the Universal Forwarder Credentials package.
This is unique to forwarding data to Splunk Cloud.
We're gonna copy the Universal Forwarder
credentials package, which is an SPL file
to the machine from which we intend to forward data.
It's obviously not going to be the same machine,
we would never install a forwarder
on the same machine
that an index or search head is on.
On the forwarding machine or the same machine,
go to Splunk and download the Universal Forwarder
and run the installer package, the msi package.
Remember this is Windows.
On the Wizard setup screen,
accept the license agreement
and select a "Splunk Cloud instance".
We're gonna click the "Customiz Options" button
and make sure we run the Universal Forwarder
as a local system account.
In a production environment,
you might wanna run it as a domain account,
but we're just doing a demo,
so we're gonna run it as a local system account.
On the Credentials screen,
uncheck "Generate random password".
We're going to need to know the username and password
when we provision the Universal Forwarder
credentials package.
The next screen will ask for a deployment server,
which we don't have, so skip it
and then click "Install" on the final screen.
This will install the
Splunk Universal Forwarder
in Splunk home for Windows Forwarders,
which is in "c:\Program Files\Splunkuniversalforwarder\".
Next we're gonna open an elevated command prompt
by typing "cmd" into the search bar.
And then right click on "Command Prompt"
and select "Run as administrator".
Once we're in the command line,
we're gonna go to the Splunk home directory
and the bin subdirectory.
Remember, a lot of the Splunk executables
are in the bin subdirectory.
So we're going to go
"cd\Program Files\Splunkuniversalforwarder\bin".
Then we're going to install
the Splunk Universal Forwarder credentials package.
In my case, I just stuck it in the downloads folder
when I moved it to the forwarding machine.
So this would be my command line,
"Splunk.exe install app"
and then "c:\users\&lt;user name>"
which in my case is going to be vboxuser,
and then,"\downloads\splunkclouduf.spl".
You may have put the splunkclouduf.spl
in a different folder.
Just modify this command as you need.
And then finally,
we will restart the Splunk forwarder
using "Splunk.exe restart".
And down at the bottom is the relevant Splunk doc
that you can also follow.
Now that we have our Splunk Cloud search hit
up and running, let's get some data into it
by downloading the Universal Forwarder credentials.
So I'm gonna click on "Universal Forwarder" over here
and then click on the "Universal Forwarder
Credentials" button.
This is gonna download a file
called "splunkclouduf.spl".
And then I'm gonna move that file over
to my Windows virtual machine
that I'm using for forwarders.
And there it is in Downloads.
We only need to use this spl file
to connect forwarders to Splunk Cloud instances.
So once I have that file downloaded,
the next step is to download the Splunk Universal Forwarder.
And I'm going to be using this Windows machine
to download the universal forwarder for Windows.
So first, let's go to splunk.com
and log in with your account
or create a new account
by clicking on that "Free Splunk" button up there.
That will take you to the downloads page again,
and we can just click "Free Trials and Downloads".
Scroll down to Universal Forwarder
and click "Get my free download".
And let's download the one for Windows 11,
since that's what my virtual machine is.
And we have to accept the terms
and click access program
and it will download the file.
We'll go ahead and run it,
and we'll get the Wizard
to install a Windows Universal forwarder.
In this case, we're gonna choose a cloud instance.
Go to "Customize Options",
make sure you rent it as a local system account,
and let's check all the boxes.
We want as much data as we can possibly get in here.
Click "Next" and put in a username
and make sure you uncheck
that little "generate random password" box
because you'll see later that we'll actually need to know
what the password is when we install that spl file.
So put in a username and a password
and click "Next".
We don't have a deployment server,
So click "Next"
and then go ahead and click "Install".
And once it's installed, click "Finish".
And let's go to the command prompt
by typing "cmd" in the search bar.
Right click on that and run as administrator.
We're gonna go to program files.
And then the directory "Splunk Universal Forwarder",
which is the default Splunk directory
for Windows Universal Forwarders.
And let's go to the bin directory.
Remember, bin is where a lot
of the Splunk executables are.
So we wanna do Splunk.exe, install app,
and then the file path to the spl file we downloaded.
In this case, it's
"c:\users\vboxuser\downloads\"
and then the file name.
And this is where it will ask
for the credentials you came up with during installation.
And now that's installed,
we need to restart the Splunk Forwarder for it to work.
So we just do "Splunk.exe restart".
And now let's check our cloud instance
and see if data is coming in.
So go to "Search and reporting"
and just type in "index=*".
Leave the time picker, it lasts 24 hours.
Click on the magnifying glass
and see all that beautiful data coming in.

--- Install Splunk Enterprise on Linux ---

Installing Splunk on Linux, and this will be the search head that I'll use throughout the course.
So we need to go to splunk.com.
And we can either create an account or log in now or just click Trials and Downloads.
It will make us create an account or log in later.
Under Splunk Enterprise click Get My free trial.
And now it's going to make me create an account or log in with an existing account.
And we'll be brought to this page where we can choose windows, Linux or Mac OS choose Linux.
And of the choices here, I like the tarball or the.
We're going to copy the wget link.
And paste it.
But first typing sudo into our Linux machine I've logged in to this virtual machine using putty, and
I'm using sudo before I paste the wget string so that I can get temporary Superuser access to take this
action.
And type the password for vbox user.
This is what we set up when we actually built the machine.
Now we're going to verify that the file has been downloaded.
And there it is.
The file is a tgz file which is colloquially known as a tarball which means it's a compressed package.
So we need to untar it and we can do that.
And at the same time copy it to the directory in Linux that we want that Splunk wants to live in, which
is the opt directory.
Now let's untar it.
We're going to use sudo then tar xvf the name of the file dash capital C and slash opt because Splunk
likes to live in the opt directory in Linux.
Then it's going to unpack that tarball into the opt directory.
And once we're done, let's move to the opt directory, then to the Splunk directory, then to the bin
directory.
And we'll start Splunk by typing sudo dot slash Splunk start.
And here's a little trick you can do dash dash accept license.
And you won't have to read the license agreement.
Now it's going to ask you to create an administrator username and password.
I'm just going to use admin and a password of my choice.
Then Splunk will start.
And it'll say waiting for the host to be available.
Once it's available we can see the URL.
Since I don't have DNS set up in my lab, we're just going to use the IP.
I'm going to clear the screen.
And then to get the IP address we simply type IP space addr.
And there we can see the IP address is 192.168.1.152.
So we simply need to put that in our browser and add on a colon.
Then 8000 for port 8000.
Now we'll simply open our browser and go to our IP address colon 8000.
And we'll log in with the admin credentials that we created earlier.
And now we've installed Splunk Enterprise on Linux because this is going to be a search head I always
like to make sure I configure receiving.
So I don't forget about it later because we're going to be forwarding data to this search head.
So we want to make sure this search head is listening for that data.
So let's go to settings.
Forwarding and receiving.
Configure.
Receiving.
Choose new receiving port.
And the default port for receiving is 997.
So we will use that port save.
And now we have a listen on this port 997.
And our Splunk Enterprise search head is ready to go.

--- Forwarding Data into Splunk on Linux ---

Installing and configuring universal forwarders.
Now, weirdly, sometimes installing and configuring universal forwarders is a little bit more involved
than installing and configuring heavy forwarders.
So we'll start with the most involved one.
And that's Linux universal forwarders.
The basic steps are to of course enable receiving on the search header indexer or search index or combo
first.
We've already done this part.
This is why we enabled receiving.
Each time we install the search head indexer.
Then we'll download the Splunk Universal Forwarder for Linux.
And then in Linux, create a dedicated user and group called Splunk for.
This is security best practice you would never want to.
For example use a root account for Splunk forwarding.
Then we'll extract the tarball into opt, which is where Splunk likes to live.
Then we'll start the Splunk forwarder and it will ask us to create admin credentials, just like starting
the Splunk search head for the first time.
Then we'll add the search head indexer as a target and it will actually modify the outputs dot conf
file.
And we'll begin monitoring data from specified locations.
In our case we'll use var log.
To download the Universal Forwarder for Linux, log in with your Splunk account.
Go to Trials and Downloads.
Click on Linux and then select the correct installation package for your distribution of Linux.
For me it's Ubuntu Server 64 bit, so I'm going to use the 64 bit installation package.
Then I'll simply click on copy wget link and copy that link.
And then in putty I'm going to type sudo.
So I can do this as a superuser User temporarily.
Then I'm going to right click and it will paste the wget link.
I'll of course have to type in my credentials and it will download the Splunk forwarder tarball the
tgz.
As you can see there, now we have to extract the Tgz as well as copy it over to opt where Splunk likes
to live, just like when we installed the search head.
So we'll do tar Xvf Xzf.
Then the file name dash c slash opt.
Now if we move to the opt directory.
We can see that we have a Splunk forwarder directory now.
So let's go to the Splunk forwarder directory.
And we can see we have some of the same subdirectories as Splunk search head.
kid.
The universal forwarder expects a least privileged user called Splunk.
So what we need to do is create that user and put it in a group of the same name, and then we'll modify
the Splunk forwarder directory so that Splunk food user is the owner of that directory.
We do this for a security best practice.
It's unwise, of course, to run your Splunk forwarder as root or even under sudo.
To do this I'm going to move back to the root directory.
And then I'm going to make myself.
The root user of this machine by doing sudo dash I.
Now that I'm the root user I can create our Splunk user and group at the same time by doing user add
dash m Splunk.
F.
After I create my user and group, I'm going to change the permissions of the Splunk Forwarder directory
such that the owner is this new user, Splunk.
We do this using Owen R, Splunk, Splunk F, then specify the directory for which we want to change
ownership.
In this case it's opt Splunk forwarder.
For our final step we just need to add a forward server.
And then we need to add some data to monitor and forward.
Before we do that, I'm going to clear out some of the clutter on the screen by using the clear command.
And let's go back to opt Splunk Forwarder and the bin directory.
And notice that I'm still in route and I don't recommend this.
So if you're using a Non-root account, make sure you type sudo before the following commands.
Now this writes directly to the outputs conf file, but it's easier to do it this way.
So we go splunk add forward dash server and then the IP address of the search head colon 9997 which
is the port.
And the server is the search head that I created a while ago.
And don't worry about the IP address.
It has changed since I rebooted it since I created that search head.
But of course we're going to do port 9997.
Read and accept the terms of service and then create an administrator username and password.
Again, I'm just using admin and a password of my choice.
And now it says we've added forwarding to that address.
Now that adds that to the outputs conf file.
Now we forward the data, we have to give it some data to forward.
And like I said var log in Linux systems is usually pretty busy.
So when we're doing tests like this I like to do var log as the data source.
So all we do is Splunk ad monitor var log.
Now let's go back to our search head and see if that data is actually coming in.
I'm going to choose on the time picker the last 15 minutes.
So we're sure that it is indeed the data that I just tried to send to this search head.
And I'll just do a simple broad search of index equals main.
And there it is.
Look at all that beautiful data.

--- Install Splunk Enterprise on Windows ---

Installing Splunk on windows is pretty straightforward.
Since this is a fresh install, it's going to give me the first time user experience for edge.
But all we need to do is go to Splunk Comm and either create a new account or log in.
And click on Trials and Downloads.
And then scroll down to Splunk Enterprise and choose Get My Free Trial.
And now we're already on Windows 10.
So click Download Now.
Read and accept the Splunk general terms.
And it will begin the download.
Now we simply need to run the downloaded MSI file.
And go through the installation wizard.
Accept the license agreement again.
I like to click on Customize Options.
Make sure it's installing it where I want to install it.
Next we need to choose local System or domain account.
If you are in an Active Directory domain, you probably will want to set this up in a domain account.
For now I'm going to choose local system.
Now we're going to create admin credentials.
And make note of these.
Click next and then install.
Then the setup wizard runs the installation for Splunk Enterprise.
And I'm greatly speeding this up.
This can take a few minutes.
And once it's done we can simply leave that checked.
That says Launch Browser with Splunk Enterprise.
And then log in with the admin credentials that we already specified.
One thing I'm going to make sure we do on all of our Splunk search head installations is enable receiving.
Because when we start forwarding data to this Splunk search head, we have to make sure receiving is
on and enabled on the right port.
So let's go to settings and then forwarding and receiving.
And then configure receiving.
And new receiving port.
And the default port for forwarders is 997.
Click save.
And now we can see that receiving is turned on or listening on port 997.

--- Forward Data into Splunk on Windows ---

Installing a universal forwarder on windows.
First, we'll configure the indexer in firewall on Windows, we need to set up the firewall so that
port 997 is open for receiving data.
Then we'll download the Splunk Universal Forwarder from Splunk Comm.
We'll download the windows MSI installer and then we'll run it selecting the virtual account user.
So first of all.
Let's go to our Windows Firewall by searching for firewall.
Right click on Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security run as administrator.
And we're going to go to inbound rules.
And on the right side let's choose new rule.
We'll select port and we will apply it to TCP.
And on the specific ports we're going to put 9997.
We'll choose Allow the connection and domain, private and public are fine.
And let's just name it Splunk.
So we know what the rule is and what it's for.
And there we can verify our rule is now in the firewall rules.
Now let's start Splunk.
And even though I know we've already configured receiving let's just double check that receiving on
port 9997 is active.
So we'll go to Settings Forwarding and Receiving and then configure receiving.
And we can see there that 997 is enabled.
Now check this out.
We are also on Splunk ten.
I upgraded this from Splunk nine to Splunk ten.
It's very easy to do that.
You just download the newest Splunk MSI installer and simply run it.
The installer will detect that you already have Splunk installed and ask whether you want to upgrade
when you upgrade, whether in Windows or Linux, it will not touch your configurations or your configuration
files.
So we'll run through the Linux upgrade.
In the next section, I'm going to move to the Windows Forwarder machine and download the Splunk Universal
Forwarder for windows by going to Splunk Comm and logging in with my account.
And I'm going to go to trials and downloads and scroll down, find the Universal Forwarder.
Click Start Download and choose the appropriate one for you.
I'm on Windows 11 so I'm going to choose Download now.
And accept the Splunk General License terms by clicking the box and then Access Program.
And it should automatically begin your download.
Once the download is finished, you can find it in your downloads folder.
And just double click to install.
In the installer, we'll choose an on premises Splunk Enterprise instance, and we'll make sure to check
the box that says accept this license agreement.
And I like to do customize options.
It gives me a little more control over the process and I don't really care where it's installed.
The default file path in program files is just fine.
And I'm going to skip the SSL certificate.
I'm going to choose virtual account for the user.
This is a good idea and it's somewhat new in Splunk.
Universal forwarder using the virtual account can still access all the data you need without some of
the security risks.
Here's how you grant that virtual account permissions.
And for fun, I'm just going to check all of these boxes because I want to get the most data in in the
least amount of time.
And you do have to create a username.
But I like to just keep it as a generate random password.
You almost never need it for deployment server.
We can skip this screen.
We're not running a deployment server right now, and on the next screen we'll put in the IP address
of the Splunk Windows search head.
And the port is 9997 next.
And then install.
And this will take a few minutes I'm speeding it up in this video.
And then click finish.
And let's go back to our search head.
And click on the Search and reporting app.
And I'm going to change the time picker to last 15 minutes.
And I'm going to do a very broad search.
Index equals main.
Click search.
And watch all that beautiful windows data coming in.

--- Install Splunk Enterprise on Mac ---

To install Splunk on a mac, we go to Splunk Comm.
Then either create a new account or log in with your existing account.
And click Trials and Downloads.
And then under Splunk Enterprise click Get My free trial.
And select the Mac OS tab.
Now you can install this in the same way as any Linux Splunk installation, but for Mac I'm going to
use the DMG, which is the Apple disk image, and it contains a compressed copy of all of the contents
that we need.
Save the file.
And once it's done downloading, I'll run the installer.
And Mac's going to have a lot of pop ups about different security features.
Do you want to allow Splunk to do this and this.
You'll just have to agree to all of them.
And then Splunk will pop up a terminal once you click okay on Splunk's little helper.
And it'll ask you to create an administrator username and password.
I'm just going to go with admin and a password of my choice.
Now you'll get Splunk Little Helper.
Again.
Just click on Start and Show Splunk and it will run the Splunk starting script.
And then it says waiting for the web server to be available.
And once that's done.
Open a browser and go to localhost colon 8000.
And log in with the admin credentials that we created.
And now we have our Splunk instance fully up and running.
And since I know this is going to be a search head, I'm going to configure receiving before I forget
later and have to troubleshoot.
So let's go up to settings and then forwarding and receiving.
And then configure receiving.
And then we'll choose new receiving port.
And we'll use the default port of 997 and click save.
And now we've successfully installed Splunk on Mac OS.

--- Heavy Forwarders ---

Configuring a heavy forwarder in Splunk.
No matter what operating system you're using is the same when you're using Splunk user interface.
So I'm now logged in to my Splunk machine that we created in another video.
So let's go to settings.
Forwarding and Receiving.
And let's look at two things forwarding defaults and then configure forwarding.
If we go to forwarding defaults we'll see that we can save a local copy of forwarded events on this
Splunk instance.
And we can configure forwarding by of course clicking on Configure forwarding.
Now there are no forwarding configurations yet.
We haven't told it to forward any data.
So all we need to do is click on New Forwarding host.
And then type in the IP address of Splunk search head or indexer.
Or in our case the search head indexer combo that we've already created.
Now don't worry if the IP address has changed since the last video you watched.
As I'm restarting my virtual machines when I'm doing demos, my DHCP server may have given the machine
a different IP address, so just check the IP addresses of your machines as you're forwarding data to
them.
So my search head is at 1.52.
And then the port of course is 9997.
Then we'll click save.
Now we've told it to forward data, but we haven't told it which data to forward.
So let's go back to settings and let's go to Data Inputs.
For this demo let's just forward data that's already on this machine.
So let's do files and directories.
And then we'll choose new local file and directory.
And now we can actually browse the file system.
I'm going to pick a directory that I know has a lot of activity in it, and that is the var directory.
The var directory holds the majority of logs on a Linux system.
So let's choose the var directory and select and then click next.
Now the input settings.
We'll set the source type to automatic.
And let's change the app context to search and reporting.
And let's make the host field value something that makes it obviously this machine.
And since the machine's name is Splunk I think we'll know that it's coming from this machine.
But let's do underscore Linux.
So we know it's coming from a Linux machine.
And for index let's just choose main.
And we'll click review.
And submit.
So now we've built a heavy forwarder.
Let's go to our search head and see if we can see that data coming in.
And to access the Splunk UI we do colon 8000 for port 8000.
Okay.
The easiest way to check and make sure this data is coming in is to go to the search and reporting app.
Remember what we put in our host field value.
We can just search for that host.
And let's change the time picker to all time just in case.
And click search.
And now we have a bunch of data coming in from the host Splunk for Linux.
In the world of windows.
I'm essentially going to do the exact same thing.
Like I said, building a heavy forwarder in any operating system is essentially the same, except when
you go to the file system, it looks a bit different.
In windows, most of the logs are stored in windows and then system32.
So I'm going to monitor that directory.
And I'm going to change the app context again to search.
In reporting I'll leave the host value at Splunk Windows since it's obvious that's our windows machine.
And of course I'll change the index to main.
And let's go back to our search head and see if there's some windows events coming in.
And by the way, quotes or no quotes, it doesn't matter at this point.
Oh look at all that data from Splunk Windows.
Okay.
We built a windows and a Linux heavy forwarder.

--- Upgrading Splunk ---

Upgrading Splunk.
Upgrading Splunk to the latest version is super easy.
You simply install the new version on top of the existing version.
That means in windows, you just download the Windows Installer package of the newest version and run
it like normal.
The installer will detect that Splunk is already installed and ask you if you want to upgrade.
And it's pretty much the same with Linux or Mac.
You download and run the tarball or whatever Linux package you are comfortable with, and you run it
in the same way that you would run a first install of Splunk.
The installer detects Splunk already installed and says this looks like an upgrade.
Do you want to upgrade yes or no?
So I'll show you how to do that on Linux.
We'll essentially follow the exact same installation steps as installing a brand new version of Splunk.
So we'll go to trials and downloads then under Splunk Enterprise Start trial.
Click on the Linux tab and I'm going to download the Tgz.
But again you can use whatever package you are most comfortable with, I'm going to copy the wget link
and paste it into my Linux virtual machine that already has Splunk installed on it.
Don't forget to do sudo.
Now it's going to download the Tgz, just like when we installed Splunk for the first time.
And we can see that it has downloaded version ten.
And I still have my version nine tgz from when we installed it the first time.
So I'm going to untar the version ten file.
So I'm going to do sudo tar xvf.
And then I'm going to start typing Splunk dash ten and then tab and it will complete that.
I'm going to do dash C and slash opt.
So it will copy it into the right directory.
And now I'm going to navigate to the opt Splunk and bin directory.
Reminder that for a Splunk install or upgrade to work, Splunk cannot be currently running.
So if you ran the script that had Splunk start up on machine Start, your Splunk might be running.
So you might need to do sudo dot slash splunk stop before you do this.
Okay I'm going to do sudo slash splunk start.
And it will make me read the end user license agreement unless I do dash dash except dash license which
of course I didn't do.
Now notice what happens.
The installer detects that Splunk is already installed and it says do you want to perform a migration
and upgrade.
And it goes through the installation.
And start Splunk.
Stance on my network IP addresses change all the time.
I'm just going to check the IP address of this machine.
It looks like it's 192.168.1.1.
So I'll go ahead and put that in the browser with port number 8000.
And we'll see the regular Splunk login.
And if we go up to help.
And then about.
We'll see that we are in fact now on version ten of Splunk.
Congratulations on getting to the end of this module.
We did a lot in this module.
We built a virtual lab.
We installed search head and indexer combinations in Linux, windows and Mac.
We installed and configured both universal and heavy forwarders in Linux, windows, Mac and Splunk
Cloud Platform, and we upgraded Splunk on both Linux and Windows.
I hope you enjoyed this section.
I thank you for joining this section and I look forward to seeing you in the next section.

--- Introduction to Searching and Tour of the Search App ---

Welcome to the core of this course.
And that is searching.
This is one of the most important activities we do in Splunk.
So in this section we're going to talk about searching and what search processing language is also known
as SPL.
SPL has two versions SPL and SPL.
Version two SPL version two is new in Splunk and only used in certain situations.
However, I want you to be prepared to use SPL two.
So we'll talk about SPL and SPL two in this course.
Then we'll talk about the anatomy of a search.
We'll try to understand the mysteries of time, and I'll walk you through some basic SPL and SPL two.
They're really not that different from one another.
Search.
Processing language.
Search processing languages Splunk's own language to search through data.
It's a set of commands used to search, filter, modify, Manipulate, insert and delete data.
There are two versions.
SPL and SPL two.
SPL two is the future of searching in Splunk.
I expect SPL two to become the only way to search in Splunk in the future.
Right now, Splunk supports both SPL and SPL two.
As long as you have Splunk version 9.4 or higher.
And again, we'll discuss both SPL and SPL two in this course.
I want to start off with a very easy comparison of SPL and SPL two, just to show you that they're actually
not really that different.
I want to do a hypothetical task, and that is counting the number of 404 errors.
Say the data is Apache logs and displaying a single value in regular SPL.
It would look something like this.
If our index was called main and our host was called Web Server one, and we were searching for status
of 404, then we do a pipe and stats count.
Pretty simple in Swpl2.
It's roughly just as simple.
However, in Swpl2 we use more SQL like terminology.
So we say from main, and then we do a pipe where host equals web server one and status equals 404.
And then another pipe stats count with no arguments.
So swpl2 looks a little bit more like SQL if you are familiar with that.
However, the thing I like about swpl2 over SQL is there's still no nesting.
Nesting gets really confusing in SQL.
So what does it actually mean to search in Splunk?
As I said, this is the heart of this course.
It's the primary way we interact with data in Splunk.
We use SPL to calculate, correlate, manipulate, organize, predict, transform, visualize and more.
And I think that sounds like an amazing 90s hip hop song.
Searching is done and the search and reporting app.
It is the default app.
It comes installed on all Splunk web interfaces and Splunk Cloud, and it's the primary way to search
and analyze data.
In Splunk.
We can both search and we can build reports and visualizations using the search and reporting app.
Let me give you a quick tour of the search and reporting app.
So on your Splunk instance, just click on Search and Reporting.
And here you'll see at the top the Splunk Bar.
This is where you edit your Splunk configuration view system level messages and get help on using the
product.
It also has the applications menu where you can switch between Splunk apps.
Next, we have the Apps Bar.
This will let you navigate between different views in the application you're currently in, which is
of course search and reporting.
So for searching reporting we have analytics, data sets reports alerts and dashboards.
Next we have the all important search bar.
This is where we will spend a lot of time.
And next to the search bar we have the time range picker and the search magnifying glass.
And below that we have the search mode picker.
And this is important to understand right now what's in smart mode.
That's its default mode.
But there are two other modes fast mode and Verbose mode.
Fast mode prioritizes the performance of the search and doesn't do any field discovery beyond default
fields.
So if your data has very explicit fields and you already know which fields you want to search on, and
you explicitly tell Splunk, you can use fast mode for a much faster search.
Smart mode is the default mode, and all reports run in Smart Mode after they are first created.
The Smart Mode returns the best results for whatever search or report you run.
It detects the results you want to see.
And finally, verbose mode returns all of the field and event data it possibly can, even if it means
the search takes longer to complete.
So if you're working with data that's completely unknown, the verbose mode might be an option.
A little bit further down, we have search history.
One of the cool things about Splunk is it keeps all of your search history.
So you can go back to any of your previous searches.
Then we have links to some help documentation and how to search, including this very helpful little
button here called Data Summary, which shows you a summary of all the data that's come into your Splunk
search head thus far.
It will show us based on host source or source type.
As you can see, I only have one source of data coming in.
And finally we have analyze your data with table views.
This allows you to create curated collections of data into datasets that you design for a specific business
purpose.
We'll spend a lot of time in the search and reporting app throughout this course.

--- The Anatomy of a Search ---

The anatomy of a search.
Whether you're using SPL or SPL two, a Splunk search is all about reducing complexity in unstructured
or semi-structured data so that it provides value to data analysts and users.
A basic search pipeline looks like this.
We retrieve a big glob of events.
This data could come from forwarders network inputs, scripted inputs, uploads really anywhere.
Then we perform some broad searches on it so that we filter out some of the data that we don't want.
In the second step of our pipeline, we have an intermediate glob of events.
We have a slightly better dataset to work with because we've filtered during the first part in our pipeline.
Now we can perform further searches, commands, and transformations until we get the data we want into
the format we want.
Now we have to decide what to do with it.
And in this step, this is where we create reports, dashboards and alerts.
And in between each step is the pipe operator.
The pipe operator is located usually right above your enter key on American keyboards.
Here's another way of looking at it.
The pipe operator tells Splunk to take the output of the previous searches or commands, and input it
to the next step.
We do this until we have the data we want in the format we want.

--- Time ---

Time.
How Splunk handles time is important.
Data analytics rely on timestamps in the data.
It doesn't make sense to know, for example, how many failed login attempts there were.
If we don't have a time window in which we are interested, here's how time works in Splunk.
Timestamps are converted to Unix time and stored in the underscore time field.
Unix time, if you are unfamiliar, is the number of seconds that have elapsed since January 1st, 1970,
also known as Epoch Time.
Splunk assumes that any data indexed is in the time zone of Splunk instance.
In the case of Splunk Cloud, it would be the region.
The underscore time field is a default, and absolutely essential.
Field values in the time field are stored in Unix time, but when Splunk displays time to us, it converts
it to a human readable format.
However, we can use Splunk SPL to put the time in any format we want using string format time, which
originated in the C programming language, and it looks kind of funny.
It has percent signs and then letters after them.
I'll show you string format time, also known as str t-i-m-e.
But first, how does Splunk deal with time in new data?
As we know, Splunk is really good at dealing with unstructured data, and unstructured data often has
timestamps that are not in traditional formats, or sometimes no timestamps at all.
So here are the steps that Splunk takes.
It looks for timestamps in the event data.
This is the easiest and most straightforward way for Splunk to catalog time.
If there are no timestamps in the event data, Splunk looks at the file name or source name itself for
time information.
If it can't find time information there, it'll look at the file modification time.
If it can't find time information there.
Finally, it will use the current system time of the system on which Splunk is installed or in Splunk
Cloud, the region.
Before we talk about String.format time, let's talk about the Splunk Web UI and how Splunk has tried
to make time a little bit easier for us.
As part of the search bar, we have the Splunk Time Range picker when we pick a time from the time range
picker, of course, that gets translated back to Unix time for Splunk.
In the time range picker, we can choose real time, relative, or other categories, and we can even
do some advanced stuff.
Let's talk about String.format time or Strftime.
We can use this directly in our SPL to specify absolute time ranges.
We can say, for example, earliest and latest and that's how string.format time looks.
It has percentages and letters after the percentages, the Splunk documentations have a full reference
on this and you can also just Google it.
But here's how this one particularly translates.
And here are the time variables that I used.
Percent lowercase m displays month as a decimal from zero 1 to 12%, lowercase d, day of the month
as a decimal, etc..
Specifying relative time is a little bit easier to understand.
We just use plus or minus to indicate the offset, and then a time unit and a number and the time units
are a little bit easier.
Why is year?
Q is quarters, etc. so -30 is 30 minutes ago, -70 would be seven days ago and plus one D would be
one day from now.
Here's some more string format time variables to look up.
These are useful and you might want to memorize just these ones if you're going to be dealing with time
a lot in Splunk.
I love percent lowercase c that just displays the date and time format in whatever the format of the
Splunk server is.
Percent capital H is an hour 24 hour clock, percent capital.
I will do a 12 hour clock.
Present capital M will do.
Minutes 0 to 59%.
Lowercase P will display Am or PM percent.
Capital S will display seconds 0 to 59.
And we can also do the same thing for dates.
And I won't read all these off to you, but percent F will do the date and iso8601 format, which is
year first, then month, then day percent.
Capital A will do a full weekday name like Monday, and the rest you can look at on your own.
We can convert the time into the format we want during search using an eval expression.
The string from time statement and time variables on the time field it looks like this eval.
Then whatever your new field is going to be equals strftime.
And then in parentheses the time field and the format time field is underscore time.
So we'll look like this eval.
And then my field is going to be called new time.
And then we do strftime.
Parentheses underscore time and then some time variables of how we want the time to be displayed in
swpl2.
We can also use two underscore string as a replacement for strftime.
And this will look like this.
In Unix time we have 160617990.
And in my new underscore time field, I've directed it to display it as 105 and then capital PM.
Okay, here's a pop quiz.
It's currently Monday, January 1st, 1900 at 5 p.m..
How will the following string format this time and date?
We have present capital A comma percent, capital B percent, lowercase d comma percent, capital y,
dash percent, capital I, colon percent, capital m, space percent lowercase p.
Pause the video and see if you can get it right.
Here's the answer.

--- Basic Searching ---

Basic searching.
Whether you are using SPL or SPL two, there are two types of searches.
Raw event searches retrieve specific events from usually large data sets, and they're helpful for doing
investigations and problem analyses.
And then there are transforming searches.
That's where we take that set of results from the raw event search and perform statistical calculations
on it, or pipe it to other search commands.
There are five types of search commands.
All searches start out with a generating command.
In SPL.
The generating command is almost always search, and it's implied you don't actually have to type search,
but in SPL two you have to have an explicit generating command of either search from or union searches
in blue.
Because it works with both SPL and SPL, two streaming commands operate on each event as they are returned
by search in real time.
A great example of a streaming command that we'll be using is the eval command.
Transforming commands.
Order the search results into a table and they're required for building visualizations.
Some that we will use in this course are stats, time chart and top.
There are two others that are sort of outside of the scope of this course, and those are orchestrating
commands and data set processing commands.
All searches begin with a generating command in SPL.
It is almost always search, though you don't actually have to type search if it's at the beginning
of your search statement.
It is implied.
And then the most basic of searches in SPL uses keywords and booleans.
You can literally just type error in the search bar, and Splunk will find every instance of the word
error in your data.
You can also use booleans like error or 404.
Then Splunk will bring in all data that contains either error or 404.
You can do not and and as well.
Remember Splunk has default fields that it adds to all data.
Those fields are index source.
source type, and underscore time.
We can use those fields in our search.
We can also use phrases surrounded by quotation marks.
Phrases have more than one word with a space in between them, so failed space login would be a phrase.
We can use fields if we know the fields in our data that we want to search for, such as a specific
user, we can filter by user equals user1 dot Domain.com.
In this case, we can also use wildcards in SPL.
The wildcard is an asterisk.
In SPL two it's a percent sign.
And remember we can also use booleans on any of these other terms.
Here's some basic search commands.
Chart and time chart return results in tabular format meant to be visualized.
Rename renames a specific field sort.
Sorts results by specific fields.
Stats builds a statistical table which can also be visualized.
Eval calculates an expression.
There's a lot of different things you can do with eval.
Dedupe Removes duplicates.
Table builds a table with specified fields.
Here's how we construct a basic search.
We begin with broad search terms.
If we know any of the metadata, it's wise to start filtering based on that.
For example, in this search, we have specified the host and the source.
That takes a potentially huge burden off of the system, because now there's a bunch of data that Splunk
doesn't need to worry about.
We're also specifying a specific field user and an asterisk or wildcard.
That means we want Splunk to search the user field for any value.
We assume this user field contains usernames.
Here's the same search in Swpl2.
Notice Swpl2 is a little more wordy.
It's a little more explicit, and that is by design.
Also in the search we're specifying two additional fields.
Message equals fail or message equals lock.
Both with wildcards.
So this is going to search for fail failure failed or lock locked locking etc..
After our broad search is complete it's time to do some commands.
So we have the pipe symbol and we want to manipulate the results to get them in the format we want.
You can put the pipe on a different line, or you can have your search string all on one line.
I've done two commands here.
The first one is to build a basic table with three fields the time field, the user field, and the
message field.
And then I've sorted by the time field in descending order.
That's the minus time.
And notice in swpl2 instead of table we use select.
Select tells Swpl2 what you actually want to view.
So I did select and then all the columns I want separated by commas.
So underscore time user and message.
And I've still sorted in the same way.
And here's what that will return three fields in a table time sorted by descending.
Let's talk specifically about Swpl2 for a minute.
It begins with an explicit generating command.
Remember in Swpl1, most search strings begin with search, but you don't actually have to type search.
It's implied Swpl2 doesn't let you imply things from is the most commonly used generating command in
swpl2.
But if you want to combine multiple data sets together, you can use union.
And of course search is there too.
But use search when you know one or more of the fields that you actually want to search.
So here's what that might look like.
At this point, let's say we have a data set called Fake Apache logs, which we will when we upload
the homework data.
Then we can add filters.
The Where clause is the most common way to filter.
We can also group by which aggregates data.
And after we use group by we can use the having filter on that aggregate data.
So now our search might look like this from fake Apache logs where status equals 400.
Notice no pipe yet.
But suppose we don't just want a table that shows every time status equals 400.
We actually want to count the number of times the status of 400 has appeared in our data.
So we could build a search like this in swpl2 from fake Apache logs where status equals 400, and then
pipe that into a stats count.

--- Search Demo ---

Let's practice some real searches.
We'll upload some fake Apache logs and search using that data.
We're going to search in SPL because SPL two is only available at the time of this recording.
In Splunk Cloud Victoria experience, which you don't get with the Splunk Cloud Trial account and the
Splunk Edge processor, which we won't be using in this course, I will show you the equivalent SPL
two searches, however, and we'll also build a basic dashboard with three visualizations.
So let's get started.
Before we start searching in Splunk, of course we need data.
This is a fresh new installation of Splunk, and we can see that by clicking here on Data Summary.
And there's nothing there.
Let's upload our fake Apache logs by going to settings and then add data.
Then we'll choose upload.
And we'll select a file.
And here's my fake Apache logs dot txt file that's also included with this course.
Once it says file successfully uploaded click next at the top.
Here we have a chance to specify the source type.
However Splunk has already determined that the source type is access combined, which is correct.
We can also tell Splunk where the timestamp in the data is if it's not already detected.
But look, Splunk has already detected the timestamp in this data, so we actually don't have to do
anything.
Let's click next.
On input settings, we can specify a host and an index for the host.
Let's change it from Splunk which is extremely general, to fake Apache logs.
And for index instead of default let's choose main, click review and click submit.
Now if we click on start Searching, we can see the SPL one search string that Splunk has built for
us.
Source equals fake Apache logs dot txt.
Host equals fake Apache logs.
Index equals main and source type equals access combined, which is an Apache source type.
Notice the time range picker is all time.
I recommend for this course that we use all time most of the time.
What type of search is this?
This is a raw event search.
As you can see, it's only brought up the raw events.
And on the left it's detected interesting fields.
Since this is a standard log format, all the fields have been detected now in Apache logs.
Since Apache is a web server, we might want to know a few different things about our fake web server.
For example, we can click on this status field and see 21 different statuses that are found in the
data.
We can see the top ten values 404, 301, 203, etc. we can see a count and percentage of each of those
values.
That might be a useful metric to display on a dashboard.
404 is an error that's not found.
The requested resource could not be found.
301 is moved permanently.
203 is non-authoritative information and 200 is everything's good.
So one thing we might want to do is show a visualization that compares error codes 200, which are successful
web requests compared to error codes 400 and 404, which are bad requests.
So let's go back up to our search bar.
And in addition to this search that's generated by Splunk, I'm also going to put a boolean operator
in here.
So now we're going to look for all events with status code 200 or 400 or 404.
Remember to leave your time picker in all time and click search.
And before we click search notice how many events we have.
We have 10,000 events.
When we click search it will significantly narrow this down.
Now we have 1499 99 events.
Do you see how we've captured a big glob of data and then narrowed it down to a smaller glob of data?
Now we can do a few different commands.
First, let's do a pipe.
And the simplest thing to do is table.
And then list all of the fields you want to show in the table.
So let's try table status and see what happens.
Now we have a table with all of the codes.
But that doesn't really tell us a lot does it?
What if we did table underscore time in status.
Now we have time stamps associated with each error code.
More powerfully we can use the stats command and count by status.
Now we have one column with our status codes and the other column with a count of how many times each
status code occurred.
And we also have a comparison among those three status codes.
So this is actually great to build a visualization.
So we can click on the visualization tab.
And Splunk tries to decide the best visualization.
It's chosen column chart.
But I think this makes for a better pie chart.
Now we have a comparison of all statuses and how often they occur.
Let's save this pie chart as a dashboard panel.
In a dashboard we're going to build and this will be the first panel in a new dashboard.
So if we go to save as new dashboard we name the dashboard I'm going to call it Web Dashboard.
And we'll leave the description blank for now.
Let's choose for the permissions shared in app.
And let's choose Dashboard Studio.
And I'd like to choose absolute.
But you can choose grid if you want specific boxes to put things in.
And the panel title, No.
Let's call it error codes compared to success codes.
And we'll have a pie chart.
And let's click Save to dashboard.
And let's not view the dashboard yet.
Click the X.
Let's create one more visualization for this dashboard.
Let's delete our stats command.
And we'll search again.
Bring back all the data.
Another interesting field that we can build a visualization on in Apache logs is bytes.
And in Apache this is bytes sent.
So we can actually track the average sent response size to detect anomalies.
To do that let's delete our statuses.
We'll do pipe and let's do the time chart command.
Space avg for average.
And then bites.
Remember to leave the time picker at all time and click the magnifying glass.
Now we have timestamps and average bytes sent.
Let's click on visualization.
And obviously a pie chart is not going to work well for this since this is a time series.
What we want to do is a line chart.
Now we have timestamps on the bottom and average bytes sent on the y axis.
If we go to format, we can do all kinds of stuff with this line chart.
I'd like to show min max data values for example.
Let's see what else we can do.
On the x axis let's change the title to time.
So it's not underscore time.
And on the y axis let's change the title to average bytes sent.
We can also do chart overlay if we want another metric and we can change the legend.
Let's save this as our second dashboard panel in our dashboard.
So we'll go to save as existing dashboard.
And we'll choose our web dashboard panel title average bytes sent.
We'll keep it as a line chart and click Save to Dashboard.
Let's not view the dashboard yet, because I think we need at least one more visualization to complete
our dashboard.
So let's delete our pipe and everything after it and bring up all the data again by searching.
There's another interesting field that I think we could use for another visualization.
And it is referrer.
And referrer shows inbound traffic by sources.
Search engines, social links, internal navigation, etc. so let's add perhaps stats count by referrer
and search.
Now, because these are fake logs, there's going to be probably an endless number of referrers.
But let's replace our stats command with our top command.
The top command will show the top ten occurrences of whatever field we choose.
So let's do top referrer.
And now this doesn't necessarily lend itself too well to a visualization, but a table, especially
a small table like this one, is a type of visualization.
And I think it will work well in our dashboard.
So let's save as.
Existing dashboard, and we'll select our web dashboard and the panel title will be top Referrers.
And click Save to Dashboard.
Now this time let's view the dashboard.
And now we have a dashboard.
But Splunk just sort of stacks everything on top of one another.
If we click edit we can make this pretty.
I think leaving the line chart at the top in a long horizontal panel is appropriate.
A pie chart, a small square panel is appropriate.
And I think for our table, I think a small square panel is appropriate as well.
And we can just sort of move it by the pie chart and make it a little bit bigger and sort of resize
things so that they all match.
And let's change the global time range to all time.
And let's save the dashboard.
Now, once we save the dashboard, of course we can view the dashboard.
So let's view it.
And there's our beautiful web dashboard.
Here are two of the primary searches we used in SPL.
And in the gray boxes they are converted to SPL two.
Notice that the searches are not that much different.
The swpl2 searches are just more explicit.
We have to actually say from Maine for example, and where source equals.
Okay.
Thank you so much for joining me.
In this section we covered SPL and SPL two.
We talked about the anatomy of a search and how Splunk handles data.
We talked about search types and we talked about timestamps and dealing with time.
Again I thank you for joining me in this section and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.

--- Introduction to Knowledge and Fields ---

Splunk Knowledge Objects.
In this section we're going to talk about Splunk knowledge fields and field extractions.
Event types and transactions, lookups tags and aliases.
And we'll do an introduction to data models.
The five pillars of Splunk knowledge are data interpretation, data classification, data enrichment,
data normalization, and data models.
And each of these pillars of Splunk Knowledge have associated Splunk Knowledge objects.
Beginning with the first pillar of Splunk Knowledge Data interpretation, we have fields and field extractions.
A field in Splunk is a searchable key value pair.
So user equals S jobs.
That is a field IP underscore addr equals an IP address.
Message equals error.
Host equals web server.
You get the idea.
These are fields.
A field has a field name and a field value.
Splunk automatically discovers some fields.
First, it discovers its default fields.
Then it looks for obvious key value pairs in the data.
Then it builds fields using custom field extractions that are built by users.
The default fields in Splunk.
As we've discussed before, are primarily index, host, source, and source type.
There are a lot of other default fields that Splunk uses for internal purposes as well.
There are three search modes in Splunk.
Selection of these search modes have significant impact on the performance of your Splunk environment,
and there are use cases for each mode.
The default one is Smart Mode and Smart Mode.
Splunk attempts to determine what results you are looking for and return them as quickly as possible.
We saw Smart Mode search when we were doing our demo earlier.
By default, Smart Mode attempts to discover fields in the data by looking for obvious key value pairs.
Fast mode is great when you know all the fields you want to search, when you really know your data.
You can use fast mode and get results very quickly, and verbose mode is the opposite of fast mode when
you don't know much about your data.
For verbose mode should be used when you need Splunk to expand its full resources to auto discovering
fields in your data, verbose mode returns all event and field data it can possibly find at the cost
of a slower search.
Field extractions in Splunk are knowledge objects created by the user.
Custom field extractions can be built using the Splunk Field Extractor, which we will show you.
We can also use straight up regular expressions, either in the search string or in configuration files.
In the search string, we use the command Rexx.
For regular expressions.
A regular expression is a pattern matching set of characters.
Actors.
Let's do some field extractions using the field extraction tool in Splunk.
In the Field extraction tool gives us two options using regular expressions which Splunk generates.
Or we can write our own regular expression and delimiters.
And I'll show you both.
The first thing we need to do is search for some data.
So let's bring up the data we've been using.
And we can look at our search history to bring up our host equals fake Apache logs and add to search
and make sure that time range picker says all time.
Click search.
And now we have our fake Apache logs.
Let's suppose here that there is a value without a field and Splunk hasn't detected it.
So we want to extract new fields using this field extractor tool.
Now we have to choose a sample event that we want to define a field from, and any one of these will
work.
But I'm just going to choose this first one here and it brings up the event.
And we can choose to write the regular expression ourselves.
If you know regular expressions very well, or we can have Splunk do it for us by clicking next.
Choosing regular expression.
Next.
And highlighting the value that we want Splunk to extract and make a field out of.
So let's say this says opera.
So it's probably a browser field.
So let's extract a new field and call it browser.
Click Add Extraction.
And then we'll see that Splunk has determined using regular expressions where that value is in all of
our data looks accurate.
So click next and notice it saves it as extract.
Dash browser.
Let's make sure the permissions say all apps.
So everyone in our Splunk environment can use this field extraction.
And there's the regular expression if you're interested.
And we'll go ahead and click finish.
And explore the fields I just created in search.
Notice on the Field Explorer.
Now we have our browser field.
This is the field we just extracted.
So now we can say browser equals Mozilla.
And it will bring up all of the data in which that field has a value of Mozilla.
Let's clean this up a bit.
And we'll just go source type equals access combined.
And we're just bringing up our general data set.
So choose all time on the time picker.
And let's extract another field, but this time using delimiters.
So again choose a sample event and I'm going to choose the second one down.
It doesn't matter I could have chose the first one again.
Click next and this time choose delimiters.
Now if your data does not have explicit delimiters, you might want to select space.
But if there are pipes or commas in your data that are delimiters, you can certainly choose that.
Apache logs.
Don't really have pipes, so you'll see if I click on pipe it won't do much.
But if I click on space, we can see that Splunk has separated all the values out, but it doesn't have
field names for them.
So we can pick one of these and give it a field name.
And let's pick field three because that's clearly a user ID.
And we'll just name it user underscore ID, even though this is probably already a field that Splunk
auto detected.
This is just a demo, and we're going to now have a user and a user ID field.
And that's okay.
So click next.
We do have to actually manually name an extracted field when we use the delimiter.
So we'll name it report dash user ID.
Make sure the permissions are for all apps.
So all of our Splunk users can use this.
Click finish and we can go back to explore the fields I just created.
And now we'll see that we have a new field called user ID.
And it's the exact same field as user.
But that's okay.
So now let's create a simple table showing our two new fields.
We'll do table, user ID and browser.
And again make sure that Time Picker says all time and click search.
We have two columns user ID and browser.

--- Event Types ---

The second pillar is data classification, and under data classification we have event types and transactions.
And a transaction is just a specific type of event type that's bound by time.
Remember that in Splunk an event is a single line of data, like a row in a database that contains,
at a minimum, the default fields of timestamp, host source, and source type.
When you search in Splunk, the first thing that comes up are events.
We can group together events using event types.
An event type is a field that represents a category of events, and so we can save a useful set of events
as an event type.
Here's a good use case for an event type.
Suppose you have login data and you want to keep track of known versus unknown users.
You could create an event type where everything that has a username is valid, and everything that does
not have a username is invalid, then you could build a search that says stats count by event type,
and you could know how many valid or invalid attempts at logging in to the system there were in a given
time frame.
So let's create an event type.
Since we already have an extracted field that displays which browser people are using, let's bring
up a historical search that searches for the Mozilla browser.
And let's suppose that we want to create an event type for all Mozilla users.
So I'm just going to add this one to the search.
Make sure the time picker is on all time click search.
And now we have about 7948 events with browser Mozilla.
I'm going to clean up this search a little bit and search it again.
And now we can actually save this search as an event type by going to save as and then event type.
And I'm just going to name it Mozilla Users.
We can add an optional tag.
And I like to change the color because it looks cool.
Click save and then done.
And then we can actually search our event types using the event type command.
Remember what we named it?
Mozilla users.
Make sure that says all time and click search.
And there's all of our Mozilla users just by using that event type.
We can look at our event types by going to settings and then event types.
And we can see all of the event types that either Splunk or we have created.
And we can also modify the permissions for those event types.

--- Lookups ---

The third pillar of Splunk knowledge is data enrichment, and the knowledge object associated with data
enrichment is the Splunk lookup.
Suppose you have data in your data set that isn't really human readable, like a region code or an Apache
error log or hex values, or some other machine generated data that isn't really human readable.
You can use a lookup table to associate that data with a new column that describes that data in a human
readable way.
For example, let's say we have data that has a regions in it, and the regions have a code that probably
means something to a machine, but nothing to humans.
I can create a lookup table using a regular CSV document, and have the region code on the left, and
a description or the region name on the right.
Then when I build my Splunk tables and visualizations, I can use the region name instead of the region
code, or I can put them side by side.
We can do this in SPL and SPL two.
We can also use the Splunk graphical user interface.
So in our demo, what we'll do is I'll create a CSV file with two columns Status and Status underscore
DSC for description.
I'll use Google Sheets for this, but you can use Excel or even just a text document.
Just separate your columns with commas.
I'll populate the first column with some Apache status codes like 200 or 404.
Perhaps you've heard of these?
I'll populate the second column with status code descriptions.
Then I'll create a new automatic lookup using the Splunk graphical user interface.
And there are three steps to that upload the lookup table which is our CSV file, create a lookup definition
and then create an automatic lookup.
Let's do a broad search for our data again by going to the Search and reporting app.
And I'm just going to look at the search history and choose a broad search that we've done in the past.
And click Add to Search.
There we go.
Host equals fake Apache logs.
Make sure the time picker is set to all time and click search.
And there's our 10,000 event data set.
And in Apache Data we have status codes.
But it doesn't tell us what those status codes actually mean.
Now some of you may know what they mean and that's okay.
But we want to make data usable.
So I'm going to create a lookup table for status codes.
The first column is going to be status and the second column is going to be status underscore desk for
description.
So the first column is going to be the original values in the data.
And the second column is going to be a description.
I'm just using Google Sheets.
You can use Excel or a text editor or whatever you like.
And I'm going to download this as a CSV and I'm going to use that as a lookup table.
So let's go to settings and then lookups.
And it's as easy as one two, three to build a Splunk lookup.
The first thing we need to do is upload the lookup table file.
Click on new lookup table file.
And upload that file that you just created.
And the destination file name can be whatever you want, but I like to name it something similar so
I know what it is.
Click save and there it is.
And the second thing we need to do is go back to settings and then lookups.
Now we need to look up definition.
Click on new Lookup definition.
And we'll call this status lookup.
It's going to be file based.
And we're going to choose our status lookup dot CSV that we just uploaded and named click save.
And it says successfully saved it.
Now we can go to settings and look us once again for the third time and choose Automatic lookups.
And then choose New Automatic Lookup.
and let's call it HTTP status.
And the lookup table is going to be the one we just created, which is called status underscore lookup.
And we're going to apply it to host named fake Apache logs.
And our lookup input fields and output fields.
This is the field we created in our table and the field in the event data I named them the same thing
to make it easier for me.
And so let's just input those values.
It's status and status.
And then the output field is status underscore desk.
And click save.
There is our automatic lookup and I like to change the permissions, especially in a demo, to all apps
so that we don't run into any issues.
Click save.
And now let's go back to our search.
And bring up our full data set again by choosing Host equals Fake Apache logs.
Click add to search.
Make sure the time picker is on all time and click search.
And now we can see a new lookup field appear right here called Status underscore DSC.
That has all of the values that we had in our CSV file.
So now we can create a simple table with status and status DSC that shows many of the statuses and their
descriptions.
We could have made the CSV lookup table longer and included all the statuses, but that wasn't necessary
for a demo.

--- Tags and Aliases ---

The fourth pillar of knowledge is data normalization.
And for data normalization we have tags and aliases as our knowledge objects.
Tags are helpful for assigning names to specific field and value combinations.
For example, we might find that we have two host names that refer to the same computer for some reason.
Or a host name and an IP that refer to the same computer.
And we want to search for that computer or that server by one tag.
We can give both of those values the same tag.
Tag equals computer one or web server one.
Tags are also helpful for tracking abstract field values, those that you might not want to type in
or search for all the time.
You can make them a lot easier by assigning them a tag.
And we can also give multiple field values the same tag.
So suppose we have three web servers.
They have different names and different IP addresses.
And we can create a tag that's just tag equals web servers.
And it will pull up all of the web servers.
A field alias is simply an alternate name you assign to a field.
Multiple fields can have the same alias, which makes this really convenient, and multiple aliases
can be assigned to the same field.
It's really easy to rename a field, for example in SPL and SPL two.
We can also use one of my favorite commands, the Coalesce command, to combine multiple fields into
the same new field name.
In our demo though, we're going to use the Splunk user interface, so we'll create a tag for our fake
Apache Logs data using the field value combination URI underscore path equals forward slash Ebusiness.
And we're going to use a tag that's tag equals e-biz.
So that way when we want to find out our e-business information we just have to type in tag equals e-biz
instead of the whole URI path.
Then we'll create a field alias for a field that I find a little bit annoying in our Apache logs, and
that is bytes, because it's really not obvious what bytes means in Apache Bytes means response size.
So I'm going to create a field alias that is response size that maps to the bytes field.
Let's create a tag for our e-business.
So let's go to settings and then tags.
And then list by field value pair.
We can click on Add New here.
Or we can click on list by field value pair and then new tag.
In the top right corner.
The field value pair is URI underscore path and then slash e-business.
This is just one of the URI paths that are in our fake data.
And I'll name the tag E-biz.
And let's make sure our permissions are set appropriately.
In this demo I usually just set permissions to all apps can read.
Now let's go back to our home page and then click Search and Reporting.
Now you'll see we can search by the actual tag.
Doing tag equals e-biz.
Make sure you choose all time on the Time picker.
And we see that now we only have 36 events out of our 10,000.
That's usually how I know that something like a tag is working.
Next, let's create a field alias by going to settings, and then fields, and then field aliases and
then New field alias.
The field alias I want to create is for the field bytes because it's not really clear what bytes means,
but in Apache Bytes means response size.
So I'm going to create a field for bytes that is called response size.
We can apply it to a source type of access combined, or a host of fake Apache logs.
It doesn't matter.
It will all bring up the same data in the field aliases field.
We need to put the original field and then the alias we want.
So I'm going to put bytes here and then response underscore size as my field alias.
And click save.
And again I'm going to make sure the permissions are set appropriately for a demo.
I don't want to run into any problems.
So I'm just going to say everybody can read.
Now that we have our alias, let's go back to the home screen.
Go to Search and Reporting and let's search our field alias now.
Response underscore size.
And I'll put an asterisk because I don't really care.
Make sure that says all time.
Now.
It should bring up all of the data, because all of the Apache data has this bytes field and there's
10,000 events.
So that's correct.
Now let's do a proper search using our tag and our field alias.
So I'm going to do source type equals access combined for my broad search I'm going to bring in the
field response size I don't care what it is.
So I'll put an asterisk and then I'll bring in our tag equals e-biz.
Now again make sure your time picker says all time.
And when you click on search notice it brings up only 36 events.
If we create a table with response size, we can see these 36 events and their response size.
If we use the top command before we do the table command on response size.
We will sort by the top ten in response size.

--- Data Models ---

Our final pillar of knowledge is data models.
Data models in Splunk exist to make machine data easier to use and to understand.
Think of them as a structured layer that sits on top of your indexed data, simplifying complex data
sets into focused, business relevant views.
The aim is to abstract complexity and the audience, our data and business analysts who want to be able
to build reports, alerts, and dashboards without knowing or learning SPL data models also allow us
to group specific types of data and perhaps most importantly, they power Splunk's pivot tool.
The pivot tool is a visual way to build visualizations without knowing SPL.
A data model is simply a hierarchy of datasets.
It's a structured hierarchy, like building blocks that organize your data into logical groupings,
and that data is enhanced by knowledge objects.
And we already know what knowledge objects are.
They include lookups, field extractions, tags, and more.
These knowledge objects add meaning and context to transforming raw data into something much more usable
and searchable for business users.
Data models are hierarchical.
They start with either a root event or a root search.
You can also have a root transaction, but one of the other two roots have to exist.
First.
Root events have a simple and very broad constraint.
And that constraint requires an index.
So you have to specify which index.
Usually index equals main root.
Searches are based on saved searches rather than raw events.
They include search constraints and can contain extracted and calculated fields in the root search.
Data model datasets fall into two categories.
Event datasets are by far the most commonly used.
And remember, event constraints must include an index constraint.
Search datasets are composed of Splunk saved searches.
Transforming commands and calculated fields.
Data model fields.
The default fields are brought into the data model.
Then we can add fields to the roots and to the children.
The children inherit all fields from their parents.
Types of fields include auto extracted eval and lookup fields and regular expressions.
So let's build a data model.
In this demo, we're going to build a data model using our Apache weblogs as the dataset.
The root object, which is the root event we will call web access.
We'll put the constraints index equals main which is required, and index constraint is required.
Acquired and also source type equals access combined.
Then the fields we will add are client IP, user method, URI path, status bytes, referrer and user
agent.
Then we'll use the pivot tool to build a simple visualization using our data model.
Remember, data models are collections of one or more data sets.
We already have a data set.
It is the fake Apache logs that we uploaded.
So let's create a data model with that data set.
First we need to go to settings and then choose data models.
We'll see that we have no data models yet.
So let's create a new data model and let's title it Web Access.
We can leave the app context at home.
Now you'll see we have datasets and there are no data sets in this data model yet.
So click on Add Dataset and we can add either a route event or a route search.
Again, route events are by far the most common routes in data models.
So let's add a route event called Web Access.
And now we need a constraint.
And these are broad searches.
And they require at least one index.
So we'll do index equals main source type equals access combined.
That will bring up our fake Apache logs.
Click save.
And now you'll notice we have a route event of web access.
And it has our constraint there.
And it also has the Splunk default fields of host source and source type.
Now we can begin adding additional fields from our dataset by clicking on Add Field.
Here we can add auto extracted fields, eval expressions, lookups, regular expressions, and geoip
fields.
Let's do auto extracted and remember the fields that we wanted to add.
Client IP user method URI path, status bytes, referrer and user agent.
And I'm going to speed this up here.
Now once we have all these selected notice that we can change the type and the flags of each field.
So what I want to do is just go through and make sure that the types are all correct.
So all of these are strings except status is a number.
And Splunk has detected that.
So that's correct.
So let's click on save.
And now we can see all of our extracted fields in the data set as well.
To further build out our data model we can add more data sets, including child data sets.
However, this is a pretty simple data model, and we only have one data set, so we won't need to do
that.
The next step after building a data model is to use the pivot tool.
Data models power the pivot tool.
So let's build a quick pivot or a quick visualization using this data model.
Click on pivot and then select our data set.
And now we enter the pivot tool where we can filter and split by columns and rows and column values.
The first filter is always time.
Let's leave this at all time.
But I want to add another filter of status.
And we'll leave that as an asterisk.
Now I want to split rose by the same.
I want to split rose by status and I'll label it status with a capital S to make it look nicer.
Add to table.
Now we have statuses, status codes, and counts of their occurrences.
It says count of web access, so let's just rename that to just count.
Now we have statuses and counts of their occurrences.
And this makes for a perfect pie chart.
So we just click the pie chart visual on the left side.
It's not really a perfect pie chart.
It's kind of a messy pie chart.
So we can fix this by adding a limit.
Click on limit under filter and then it automatically limits it to the top ten, which is still kind
of busy.
So I'm going to change that to five highest five.
And now we have probably a useful pie chart if this were real data.
So we can save this as a report or dashboard panel.
Let's save it as a dashboard panel.
And we'll create a brand new dashboard called Pivot Web Dashboard.
And make sure it's shared in app.
And the panel title will be top five statuses.
Click on save.
And view dashboard.
And there's our beautiful pivot built dashboard.
Thank you for joining me in this section.
In this section we talked about the pillars of knowledge in Splunk.
We also talked about knowledge objects including event types, lookups, tags and field aliases.
And we talked quite a bit about data models and did a data model demo.
Again thanks for joining me in this section and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.

--- The Basics of Visualization ---

Visualizing data.
In this section we're going to talk about the basics of visualization in Splunk.
We'll go over reporting and alerting.
And we'll do a deep dive into the pivot tool.
The basics of visualization.
One of the best books on visualization is called storytelling with data, a data visualization guide
for Business professionals.
And one of the quotes from that book is success in data visualization does not start with data visualization.
Before you even begin to make a visualization, start with purpose.
You must first understand the question you're trying to answer, the decision to be made, or the story
you want to tell.
Then know your audience.
How much context do they have?
What do they care about?
What do you want them to do with the information?
And then you need to understand your data clean.
Explore and interpret the data to uncover the key message before deciding how to visualize it.
Why visualize data?
Data alone is not very interesting to look at.
Non-technical people might not be interested in tabular or raw data.
Visualizing data makes it more human centric.
Humans are pattern recognizing machines.
We love patterns when we show patterns in data.
It can connect with people from an early age.
We're taught to visualize data.
Think about your childhood.
Storybooks.
Visualizations are art, and therefore they do have an emotional impact on us.
So what does it mean to understand your audience?
Well, executives usually have different needs than individual contributors with regards to data and
decision making.
Publicly available dashboards might display different data than internal only reports or dashboards.
Understand your own goals.
What is the message for which you are using this visualization?
Like the famous author's purpose, consider the pie.
Do you want to persuade, inform or entertain or all three?
Here are some common types of visualizations in Splunk.
The pie chart shows a single dimension that is a single description of the data, and the slices represent
the frequency or density of the values in a field.
A line chart shows how a value changes over time.
An area chart shows changes in an aggregated view over time.
A column or bar chart shows discrete values great for comparing.
A table shows tabular data, and in Splunk we can also make the table a heat map that shows density
of data as well.
Never underestimate the single value in Splunk.
When you have a number to communicate, the single value is awesome.
And finally the gauge.
The gauge shows an aggregated metric compared to a range 0 to 60, for example.
Behind visualizations are the idea of a dimension.
A dimension is something you want to measure.
Think of a dimension as one side of a cube.
That's why we call cubes three dimensions.
What are the dimensions of a cube?
Height, width and depth.
But what if we want to measure something else?
Say date, time, customer and purchase price.
Well, those are dimensions.
Now we have a bunch of dates times, a bunch of customers, and a bunch of purchase prices.
We have a cube that's made up of smaller cubes.
Each small cube is one date time, one customer, and one purchase price.
This is called the grain of our data.
The grain is the lowest level of detail that satisfies the business requirements in our dataset.
In Splunk, a cube is also a table, and a table is also a dataset.
A dataset is a collection of data that usually Splunk knowledge managers define and maintain for specific
business purposes.
A dataset is full of dimensions by which you measure the data.
These are often the columns.
Data models, as we've seen, are made up of data sets.
The pivot tool we saw earlier in class is powered by data model datasets.
Knowledge managers in Splunk create data models so that data analysts can easily consume the data and
use the pivot tool to create reports, dashboards, and alerts, and other visualizations.
This allows data analysts and business users to create powerful visualizations without needing to know
SPL or the inner workings of Splunk.

--- Reporting and Alerting ---

Reporting and alerting in Splunk.
Reports and alerts are, of course, knowledge objects.
So what's the difference?
A report is a bunch of saved searches that can run on a schedule and perform an action.
You can send an email to report consumers.
It can embed on a web page.
It can update a dashboard panel, or it can even run a script.
Scheduled reports can run every hour, every day, week, month, or on a cron schedule that you define.
You can and should stagger the report running window if you have multiple reports running.
This way you won't bog down your Splunk system.
Alerts can be scheduled or in real time.
Alerts are triggered when the results of a search meet a specific condition that you define.
So, for example, if the search is host firewall one user equals star authentication equals failed.
If that returns anything it will trigger an alert.
Alerts can have actions.
These actions can include of course send an email, trigger a script, use a webhook list in triggered
alerts, or use an app like Pagerduty or Slack.

--- The Pivot Tool ---

The pivot tool.
The pivot tool is a powerful tool that's included with Splunk that allows business users and data analysts
to create dashboards, reports, and alerts without using SPL.
It has a drag and drop graphical user interface for Splunk users, and the pivot tool is driven by data
models behind the scenes.
There are some basic pivot functions that we'll see in the demo, and these are.
Filter filtering reduces the size of the result set.
The more you can filter at the beginning, the more efficient use of Splunk resources.
All pivots are filtered by first a time range.
The narrower you can define the time range, the better.
Then we have splits by row and by column split by row splits out the pivot results by row, of course,
and split by column splits out the pivot results by column.
And then we have column value.
This is often a count.
It's a numeric and represents aggregates like sums and averages where the field is not inherently numeric.
This field is a count of the occurrences of that field.
The reason it's called the pivot tool is just like in Excel, you can literally create pivot tables
that power visualizations.
In our pivot tool demo, we'll explore the pivot tool using our existing data model.
And we'll build a basic dashboard using the pivot tool.

--- Building a Dashboard with the Pivot Tool ---

The quickest way to get to the pivot editor is to go through our data models.
So let's go to settings and then data models.
And we see the data model we created earlier called web Access.
And under actions let's just click on pivot.
And then we need to select our data model dataset which we also called web access.
And when we enter the pivot editor we can see on the left all of our visualization options.
And we see in the main working pane simply a count of all events over all time.
We have filters, splits, and column values.
The first visualization that we're going to make is a stacked area chart that shows Apache codes over
time, because these are fake Apache logs and they have fake timestamps.
I'm going to leave my filter at all time.
But in the real world with real data, you should filter by time as narrowly as possible, because the
more narrow your filters, the better your reports and dashboards will run and behave.
So the first thing I'm going to do is split columns by status.
And I'll leave the default settings and click Add to Table.
Now we have a column for each Apache status, and we have a count for how frequently those statuses
appear in all time.
Now I'm going to split rows by time.
And I'll leave the defaults there and click Add to Table.
Now we have timestamps, Apache codes, and counts of the appearances or instances of those codes on
those specific timestamps.
This works well for an area chart.
So let's click here on area chart.
And let's create a limit because this looks really busy.
So under filter click Add Filter.
And then we'll filter by status.
And then let's do limit.
And by default it limits to the highest count and top ten.
But that even seems a little too busy.
Let's do top five.
And now we have a usable area chart.
Let's do some cosmetic touch ups.
So x axis is time.
Show the label.
All of that looks great.
Y axis is count of web access.
But the label count of web access doesn't really mean much to the average data consumer.
So let's just call it occurrences.
Currencies.
Now you can see on the y axis it says occurrences on the colored areas.
We don't really need to change anything in the general area.
We can change the chart to stacked or not stacked, which creates kind of an interesting transparency.
Or we can change it to stacked 100%, but that looks way too busy for me.
I think stacked is the best one.
So now that we have the chart how we want it, let's save it as a dashboard panel and at the same time
create a new dashboard.
So we'll go to save as.
Dashboard panel.
And let's create a new dashboard.
And let's just call it web performance.
And on the dashboard permissions I always like to choose shared in app because we're just doing a demo
environment and our panel title will be HTTP status over time.
Let's click save.
Let's not view our dashboard yet.
Let's create a few more panels.
So simply click the X.
And to go back home click home.
And to go back to the pivot editor just click on the table icon.
Let's clear out all of our filters and splits.
I'm going to simply click on the pencil icon and remove.
And I'm going to remove column values which will give me an error.
But I'll put it back because I want it to be at its default.
Now I'm just going to add column values back and count of web access.
No label.
Now we're back to default.
Let's make another visualization.
And this time I want a line chart that shows traffic volume over time.
So again I'm going to leave my filter at all time because this is fake data and it has fake timestamps.
I'll leave column values at count of web access for right now.
I'm going to split rows by time.
And for fun, I'm going to filter by successful web requests, which are in the Apache 200 range.
So I'll add a filter and status, and I'll do less than or equal to 300.
Now this shows me time stamps and count of successful web requests over time, so this will make for
a perfect line chart.
I'm going to change the y axis label to just be count instead of count of web access.
That's not going to make a lot of sense for the average viewer.
Now I'm going to save that as a second dashboard panel.
I'm going to choose existing dashboard, and I'm going to choose our web performance dashboard.
Our panel title will be Successful Web Requests over time.
Okay.
Now let's not view our dashboard quite yet.
Let's make at least one more visualization.
So let's go back to our table and I'm going to remove all of our filters and splits.
I'm going to put back count of web access.
Now let's make a visualization that identifies maybe the top five requested pages.
So again I'm going to use all time.
But I'm going to split rows by URI path.
So I'm going to add a filter on URI path.
And instead of match I'm going to do a limit.
And I'll do hi and then five.
So there are the top five places on our fake website that people are visiting.
So we can make this a pie chart, but I think it might be better as a bar chart.
And this pie chart looks fine, but this might be better served as.
A bar chart.
Let's change the y axis label again to page.
And then let's save it as a dashboard panel.
On our existing dashboard.
And we'll call this most frequent pages visited.
Click save.
And now let's view our dashboard.
This is a nice looking dashboard by itself.
And if we want we can edit the cosmetics of the dashboard by clicking edit.
And for example we can move these two next to each other and put this one on top.
And save the dashboard.
Now we have a nice web performance dashboard from the home page.
Let's change this dashboards app context and permissions.
So we need to go to settings and then User interface.
Then views.
And find our dashboard here.
There it is.
Web performance.
The owner is admin.
That's good.
But the app context is launcher.
So let's change permissions here under sharing.
And choose all apps and then click save.
Let's go back home.
Now when somebody clicks on search and reporting and dashboards they can find our dashboard.
In this section we talked about some of the theories behind why we choose certain visualizations.
We explored the pivot tool and we built a really nice dashboard.
I thank you for joining me in this session as always, and I'll see you in the next one.

--- The Splunk Common Information Model ---

The Splunk Common Information Model.
This is really important to understand and a powerful tool to use in Splunk.
So in this section we'll talk about what the SIM actually is and what it does.
We'll examine some of the SIM data models and we'll talk about SIM knowledge objects.
Most importantly tags which are required to make your data SIM compliant.
So what is the common information model.
It's referred to as the SIM and it's an add on.
Remember a Splunk add on enriches your data but doesn't necessarily have a graphical user interface,
whereas a Splunk app almost always has a graphical user interface plus its add on capabilities.
This add on contains data models, documentation tools, and other knowledge objects to make your data
SIM compliant.
The Common Information Model is a shared semantic model focused on extracting value from your data and
giving you a consistent, normalized treatment of that data.
A semantic model means a model of meaning, a model of shared meaning, to be exact.
This means that when we have diverse data sources that might have their own ways of formatting data
and naming fields, when we make that data SIM compliant, we can more easily build integrated dashboards,
reports, and alerts.
The SIM takes your source data and creates a schema on the fly, which is a search time schema.
This allows you to essentially create views in database terminology without affecting your source data.
Of course, you may want to leave your source data the way it is for various reasons.
Let's have a look at a few of the SIM data models.
Same data models include inherited, extracted, and calculated fields, and some data models include
fields with expected values.
The first snapshot of a field I want to show you is the alerts field, and the alerts field has one
data model data set called alerts.
And some of the interesting fields are app body severity and type.
So if we had some alert data from some resource and it already had this information, but maybe the
fields were named differently.
We would make it Scim compliant by renaming or using field aliases for these fields.
The next thing I want to show you is called malware.
And it has two data sets malware attacks, malware operations.
And it has these fields category file name, destination, entity domain, and vendor product, among
many other fields.
So you can see how you could use these standardized CIM fields in malware data.
And the third interesting one that I liked is called Network Traffic.
And it has one data set called All Traffic.
And the standardized CIM fields are App bytes, destination IP, destination port, and a bunch of others.
But you can see how we might make our fake Apache Logs CIM compliant using the Network Traffic Data
model in the Splunk CIM.
Because the Apache logs don't actually have field names with them.
So we would use the field extractor to extract an app field, a bytes field, a destination IP field.
That data is there.
It's just not associated with a field name in the Apache logs.
Other SIM knowledge objects.
The SIM comes with tags and aliases and fields, and the most important here is tags.
Tags are actually required to make your data SIM compliant.
So SIM data models contain tags, and we need to apply these tags to make the data SIM compliant.
After we apply the tags, we should verify that they work.
And the easiest way to do that is using the pivot tool.
We can also explore the data model or we can explore the data model configuration file.
Here's the process for tags identify, observe, apply and verify.
So identify the data model and dataset relevant to our event data.
Then we observe which tags are required for that data set.
Are there any other constraints.
Then we apply create event types and tag them with the appropriate tags.
And then we verify that the tags work as expected.
And I like to use the pivot tool.
There are a couple of ways to do that.
do that.
Examine the data model.
Examine the data model configuration file.
Then we move on to fields.
SIM data model data sets also include extracted, inherited, and calculated fields.
Some of these fields have expected values to help in normalization efforts.
So here's the process for fields.
Compare the fields, specifically the field names in the data model with fields in your data.
You may already have SIM compliant data.
If it's a perfect match, you're done.
But if not, you need to map your field names to the SIM field names.
Typical ways to do this are through field aliases, field extractions, which is what we will use,
lookups and others.
And finally, we validate once we've normalized our data we validated against the SIM.
Again I like to use the pivot tool.
But there are a few different ways to do this.
So let me show you the sim in action.
I'll download and install the SIM add on.
I'll examine the data models, and we'll make some SIM compliant data out of our Apache fake logs.

--- Splunk CIM Demo ---

The Splunk Common Information Model.
This is really important to understand and a powerful tool to use in Splunk.
So in this section we'll talk about what the SIM actually is and what it does.
We'll examine some of the SIM data models and we'll talk about SIM knowledge objects.
Most importantly tags which are required to make your data SIM compliant.
So what is the common information model.
It's referred to as the SIM and it's an add on.
Remember a Splunk add on enriches your data but doesn't necessarily have a graphical user interface,
whereas a Splunk app almost always has a graphical user interface plus its add on capabilities.
This add on contains data models, documentation tools, and other knowledge objects to make your data
SIM compliant.
The Common Information Model is a shared semantic model focused on extracting value from your data and
giving you a consistent, normalized treatment of that data.
A semantic model means a model of meaning, a model of shared meaning, to be exact.
This means that when we have diverse data sources that might have their own ways of formatting data
and naming fields, when we make that data SIM compliant, we can more easily build integrated dashboards,
reports, and alerts.
The SIM takes your source data and creates a schema on the fly, which is a search time schema.
This allows you to essentially create views in database terminology without affecting your source data.
Of course, you may want to leave your source data the way it is for various reasons.
Let's have a look at a few of the SIM data models.
Same data models include inherited, extracted, and calculated fields, and some data models include
fields with expected values.
The first snapshot of a field I want to show you is the alerts field, and the alerts field has one
data model data set called alerts.
And some of the interesting fields are app body severity and type.
So if we had some alert data from some resource and it already had this information, but maybe the
fields were named differently.
We would make it Scim compliant by renaming or using field aliases for these fields.
The next thing I want to show you is called malware.
And it has two data sets malware attacks, malware operations.
And it has these fields category file name, destination, entity domain, and vendor product, among
many other fields.
So you can see how you could use these standardized CIM fields in malware data.
And the third interesting one that I liked is called Network Traffic.
And it has one data set called All Traffic.
And the standardized CIM fields are App bytes, destination IP, destination port, and a bunch of others.
But you can see how we might make our fake Apache Logs CIM compliant using the Network Traffic Data
model in the Splunk CIM.
Because the Apache logs don't actually have field names with them.
So we would use the field extractor to extract an app field, a bytes field, a destination IP field.
That data is there.
It's just not associated with a field name in the Apache logs.
Other SIM knowledge objects.
The SIM comes with tags and aliases and fields, and the most important here is tags.
Tags are actually required to make your data SIM compliant.
So SIM data models contain tags, and we need to apply these tags to make the data SIM compliant.
After we apply the tags, we should verify that they work.
And the easiest way to do that is using the pivot tool.
We can also explore the data model or we can explore the data model configuration file.
Here's the process for tags identify, observe, apply and verify.
So identify the data model and dataset relevant to our event data.
Then we observe which tags are required for that data set.
Are there any other constraints.
Then we apply create event types and tag them with the appropriate tags.
And then we verify that the tags work as expected.
And I like to use the pivot tool.
There are a couple of ways to do that.
do that.
Examine the data model.
Examine the data model configuration file.
Then we move on to fields.
SIM data model datasets also include extracted, inherited, and calculated fields.
Some of these fields have expected values to help in normalization efforts.
So here's the process for fields.
Compare the fields, specifically the field names in the data model with fields in your data.
You may already have SIM compliant data.
If it's a perfect match, you're done, but if not, you need to map your field names to the SIM field
names.
Typical ways to do this are through field aliases, field extractions which is what we will use, lookups
and others.
And finally, we validate once we've normalized our data we validated against the SIM.
Again I like to use the pivot tool.
But there are a few different ways to do this.
So let me show you the sim in action.
I'll download and install the SIM add on.
I'll examine the data models, and we'll make some SIM compliant data out of our Apache fake logs.

--- Using eval and let ---

Intermediate searching and the future with SWPL two.
In this section, we're going to talk about some intermediate searching techniques using eval stats
and predict.
And then we'll talk about the future of Splunk with Swpl2.
Eval and let.
Eval creates new calculated fields from existing ones.
Eval is for SPL one and an SPL two.
We use let.
Here's the format eval or let the new field you want to create equals and then the eval expression.
Common expressions include math conditionals and booleans like and or.
Let's run an eval search that classifies Apache statuses like 203, 404, etc. and they tell you various
things about the web requests.
So what this does is it takes the status, divides it by 100.
Drops the remainder.
That's what floor is.
And then multiplies that number by 100.
And then it creates a new column called success.
And if the status is less than 500, it puts a one in that column, which means success.
And if not, it puts a zero in that column.
Then we'll do a simple table command bring up time src, which is the IP address method, which is post
or get URI, which is the URL, the original status, and then the status class, and then whether it
was successful.
Now in Swpl2 this is essentially the same, except we use from let and select.
In the demo, I'm also going to replace the table command with the stats command and create a quick
visualization.
First let's bring up our main data set.
And we can do that by going to the search and reporting app and bringing up source type equals access
combined.
Or we could use source equals fake apachelogger.
TXT or even index equals main.
Make sure the time picker is on all time.
And it should bring up our full 10,000 events.
Now remember the search we wanted to do.
We'll categorize events based on their status.
So what it's doing here is taking the Apache status code, dividing it by 100, dropping the remainder,
and then multiplying that by 100.
So we get a clean status code.
And it can be easily categorized.
And then a success measurement zero for not successful and one for successful.
For fun, let's remove that table command and replace it with stats.
Now if we do stats count by success, we can make a nice visualization in a column chart or a pie chart.
And this will look really great on a dashboard.

--- Searching with stats and streamstats ---

Stats and stream stats.
Stats calculates aggregate statistics such as sums and averages, and the format is really easy stats
and then the calculation and then the field.
So here's what we'll do in the stats demo.
It's a lot like the eval demo we did before.
So we're still going to categorize our Apache statuses.
But then we're going to count how many total requests are in each class.
Then calculate the average payload size per request.
And finally group the results by status class in Swpl2.
This is essentially the same we use from and.
Let and count has those two parentheses after it in Swpl2 because it's calling a function.
Before we do the demo, let's quickly go over stream stats.
Stream stats is a running version of stats that shows streaming data in near real time.
Its format is a little bit more complicated than stats.
You usually want to sort by time first, and then there's a command, a function, a field, and a time
window.
So here's an example.
So sort by time and then stream stats count as the field name running count.
Sum up the bytes as running bytes.
And then by status class.
Now unfortunately we don't have streaming data.
We just have our uploaded fake Apache logs.
So I'm not going to show you stream stats.
But let's get started on our stats demo.
Let's go to the search and reporting app and bring up our main dataset with source type equals access
combined.
And then we'll put in this eval statement which takes the Apache status code, divides it by 100, drops
the remainder and then multiplies that by 100.
And what that does is give us a number that we can put into a class 100, 200, 300, etc. then we'll
do a stats command.
Count as hits.
So we're making a new field called hits and then average.
And then we're taking the average of the bytes field.
And we're making a new field called avg underscore bytes.
And finally we're going to group the results set by status underscore class which is the field we created
in that eval statement above.
In Swpl2 we would explicitly say group by status class.
And that gives us a nice table with status classes, how many hits they've received and the average
bytes.
This doesn't really make for a good visualization other than a table, but we should not discount the
power of a table.

--- Predicting Data ---

I actually really love this Splunk command predict forecast time series data.
It applies statistical models to predict future values based on past data.
And I get the most use out of predict when I use it with time chart.
And that's what we'll do in the demo.
At the very end of our search string you will see just predict.
And then the field we're using in our demo let's predict some data.
So of course the first thing we're going to do is bring up our data set by going to search and reporting.
And then enter source type equals access combined.
Make sure the time picker is on all time.
And that will bring up all 10,000 of our events.
Now these events are static events.
They're not streaming in.
We uploaded a file.
Let's find out what the latest date of these events are.
Since we're going to use the Predict to predict into the future, let's see what the latest date is
by using this small search.
And that's stats max time as late as time and then eval latest date string from time latest time comma
percent C and percent C puts the time in a human readable format.
So the latest date and time is Thursday October 9th.
Ninth.
So just keep that in mind as we make this prediction.
Okay.
Now let's erase that.
So now let's do time chart.
And then span equals one day.
That means each row will have a one day difference.
And we'll do average on the bytes field as avg bytes.
That's going to be our field name.
Now we're going to use the predict command on avg bytes.
Make sure your time range picker is set to all time.
And look it predicts into October 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th with lower and upper 95 percentile
bracketing.
And we can see this beautifully on a line chart.
We can see the percentiles and we can see the prediction there in the middle.
Now if you want to zoom in a little bit, you can change the span from one day to something like say
60 minutes.
Now of course it's only going to predict 60 minutes into the future, but we can see the real average
bytes and the prediction.
So this is a pretty nice Splunk tool to have in your tool bag.

--- The Future and SPL2 ---

The future of Search with Swpl2.
Throughout this course, I've shown you what our searches look like in both SPL and Swpl2.
Swpl2 is the future of Splunk, so I recommend, as you learn, searching in Splunk to focus on Swpl2,
but also understand SPL one because it's not going anywhere.
SPL two allows for a lot better reusability across Splunk products, and it bridges security, observability,
and AI analytics while preserving the speed and flexibility that defines Splunk.
SPL and SPL two, you will find, are really not that different.
Thank you for joining me in this section.
In this section we did some intermediate search in Splunk.
We use the eval command, the stats command and the predict command.
And by the way I love the visualization that the Predict command can make.
It's really quite pretty.
Then we talked about the future with SPL two and that you should focus on Swpl2 while still keeping
in mind the SPL one basics.
Again, thank you for joining me in this section.
