

=== Getting Started ===


--- Introduction to the Course ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to an interesting course on Splunk Beginner to Architect.
My name is Jill and I am going to be your instructor throughout this course.
So as part of this introductory video, we are going to discuss about some of the amazing features of
Splunk and why Splunk is so popular in the industry.
So with this, let's get started.
Now, before we discuss about the importance of Splunk in organizations, let's take a simple use case
of Demo Corp bank.
This will give us better understanding on why Splunk can be very useful.
So the use case states that you have a Demo Corp bank that operates hundreds of servers in its data
center.
Along with that, they are running various applications.
They have networking devices and firewalls.
Now, this is one of the very common things that you will see.
Maybe hundreds of servers might not be running in data center, but you might be working in an organization
where you have hundreds of servers that are running in some cloud provider can be AWS, Azure, GCP,
etc. so at an overview, similar setup is very common in most of the organizations.
Now one of the common challenges that comes when you have so many servers, so many applications is
related to monitoring.
So monitoring the application and the security logs for suspicious activity or for any other use case,
it requires you to manually logging into each server to review the logs.
For example, let's consider there is one server where things are not really working as expected.
Now what will give you the better understanding?
It is the logs.
So you'll have to first login to the server, look into the log to understand what problem is happening
and try to fix it accordingly.
Now this is a complete manual approach.
Maybe for one server or two server it is fine, but when you have hundreds of servers, this manual
approach is something that is not feasible.
So in such case, one of the potential solution that you will see being used in most of the organization
is a centralized analysis platform.
So an organization can push all of the logs and events from all of the servers to a centralized analysis
platform, and all of the team will log into the centralized analysis platform to look into the logs
and events.
And this makes your life simple.
Why?
Because now you don't really have to log in to each server, since each server is pushing everything
in terms of logs and events to a centralized platform over here.
So this centralized platform that we were just discussing is where Splunk is extensively used.
So at an overview, Splunk is one of the most popular log analysis and monitoring tools that is available
in the industry.
And one of the great benefits here is that it allows us to search, analyze, as well as visualize the
data from various devices that might be present in the organization.
So overall, it would look something similar to this.
So in the organization you will have so many servers.
You might be having AWS accounts, you might be running various applications and so on.
So all of the logs and events from everywhere you push to a centralized platform.
In this case it is Splunk.
And not only push the logs, you can generate great set of alerts, great set of alarms, dashboards
and so on.
So this is one of the true beauty of Splunk.
Now, just for reference, I have also added a screenshot which shows on how the log events really looks
like in Splunk.
So here you see these are all of the logs from the web servers that are appearing in Splunk.
Will also have a demo in just a moment.
Now one more thing that I'd like to share is that based on the log and events that you have indexed
in Splunk, you can generate great set of dashboards.
And these dashboards can prove to be very useful in the organizations that you will be working with.
Now, before we have a demo on Splunk, let's look into the three important benefits that the centralized
analysis platform provides.
One is that all of the metrics and logs from all of the devices can be analyzed centrally.
This is one of the core aspect of any centralized platform.
Second is you can generate dashboards, alarms, as well as alerts on suspicious activity or various
other use cases related to sales, etc. and third, you can correlate all the logs to find any attack
pattern.
So this again is very useful in many organizations.
So with this set let's go ahead and have a quick demo on Splunk.
This will give us better understanding.
So currently I am logged into Splunk setup that we have.
Now if I quickly go to search and reporting if we look into the data summary, you see you have two
servers that are listed over here.
Now we were discussing that logs from various servers or applications can be pushed centrally to Splunk.
So generally in this case we only have two.
However in larger organization you can have hundreds of servers.
Now let's say there is one server called as prod.
And you want to see the logs and events associated with that server.
Now if you do not have the centralized analysis platform, you would have to manually log in through
SSH.
However, since we have this centralized analysis platform, Splunk, you don't have to manually log
in.
All you have to do, you have to click on the server name and all of the logs.
All of the events associated with the server will be populated over here.
So you see you have all of the events, and from here you can go ahead and look into the logs and perform
the necessary analysis accordingly.
One of the great benefits is you also have the time range.
For example, many times what happens is there are some issues in the server and you would like to see
the logs of just last 60 minutes.
So you can just select last 60 minutes and all of the logs events that you see there of last 60 minutes.
Only if you would like to see all time.
You can also do that.
So when we discuss about all time, you see you have more than 100,000 log events that are appearing
over here.
So this is one of the core aspects of Splunk.
Now one more thing that I would like to share is that whenever you're working in organization, all
the management team is happy that all of the logs are coming to a centralized platform, but they do
not really want to read each events.
They would like to see.
Great set of dashboards that can answer various questions.
For example, management team might have a question like how many visitors are visiting your website
or how many sales are happening.
All of that can be easily answered using the dashboards.
Splunk is very good in creating great set of dashboards.
Let me show you.
So if I quickly open up the dashboard.
So here you see you have great set of dashboards that are getting generated.
If I go a bit down, each dashboard has a specific use case that it answers.
So just by looking into the dashboards you can go ahead and answer it without looking into each log
event manually.
So this is one more very interesting thing over here.
Now one more thing that I'd like to share is that all of the data based on which the dashboards are
created, this is not some randomly generated data.
These are the actual data based on logs that we receive for our website.
All right.
So this is one thing that I'd like to share.
Now one aspect here is the total request per day.
So this is one of the dashboard.
Now here you see that for some days you have around 11,000 requests.
For some day you have 6000 and so on.
But there is one particular day you see on 28th July you have more than 23,000 requests that we have
received.
Now this looks abnormal.
And there are two answers to why this can happen.
One is an organization might be running a huge sales and marketing campaign.
So in such case you can have this.
Second, and the most common case is where some attacker are attacking your website.
They are sending thousands of requests, maybe as part of denial of service or as part of any other
area.
Now in our case, in case of Collapsin, we don't really run any sales and marketing campaign.
Most of our users, they come through word of mouth.
So in such case this event is very abnormal.
Now this is primarily because of someone attacking the server.
We'll be discussing about this at a later stage as part of this course.
But this is one thing that I'd like to share.
Now since all of the data is coming to Splunk, you see how easy it is for us to find any attack patterns
or see any abnormal activity.
It becomes very simple.
One more thing that I'd like to share is request by country.
So you see most of the requests, 50% is coming from Spain.
Then you have the United States and then you have other countries.
Now, even I was surprised that we have 50% coming from Spain.
My earlier expectations were most of our users are from United States, but it is actually from Spain.
So this is also very interesting insights.
And again, you have various other dashboards that are available and each can answer a specific question.
Now one more thing that we were discussing is that not only you can index the events in Splunk, but
you can also generate great set of dashboards, alarms, alerts, etc..
So let's go ahead and discuss about the other part, because dashboard is something that we already
saw.
Now let's quickly go to the alerts over here.
Now you see I have two alerts that are set up.
One is related to the SSL expiry.
Second is related to the IP block.
The IP block alert is very important for us.
Let me also give you an overview.
Now one thing that you will see is that this alert has a section of slack.
So our Splunk is integrated with slack.
So whenever a alert is generated, you will get notified in slack.
Let's also quickly look into this specific part.
Now if you login to slack, you have various channels, one being URI alerts.
So this is the channel where any alert that is generated based on this IP block that alert details will
be added over here.
So let's look into what exactly this means.
So generally what happens is whenever someone attacks our website which is collapsed in and we detect
that attack, then we immediately block that IP address in the firewall.
For example here you see this is the IP address blocked for 20 minutes.
This is the IP address.
Why it is blocked.
Because they are trying to open some URIs like dot env which ideally they should not be trying to do
that.
It also shows you the country of Russia.
So behind the scenes what happens is that IP tables rule is created on the server.
And that IP table rule will block the specific IP address for 20 minutes in a similar way.
You see, there are so many IP addresses that are getting blocked and from various countries you have
Spain, Netherlands, United States, Japan and so on.
So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of.
Let's go to the latest messages.
Now I'll give you a small demo.
This will give you better clarity what we are going to do.
I am going to go ahead and send a request to the website on a URI path that should not be opened by
some random users.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
So let's say I make a curl request to the website and let's try to open, say admin.
And as expected you are getting 404 not found.
This is good.
Now immediately here you see it just took a second.
It says this IP address is blocked for 20 minutes.
This is the client IP.
This is the URI path of admin dot PHP and the country is India.
So it is so fast.
So as soon as someone tries to open some page that they should not open immediately, the next request
by that user is blocked through firewall.
So this integration is also very interesting.
Splunk has wide range of integrations with slack.
You can integrate it with firewalls, etc. and this makes Splunk very unique and why so many organizations
are making use of it.
Now one more thing that I would like to share is related to the Magic Quadrant of CRM.
And if you are not aware of the Magic Quadrant, let me just give you a small introduction.
So the list that you see in the leaders, these are the top players in the industry.
Then you have the visionaries, then you have the niche players, then you have the challengers.
So when I used to work in an organization, I remember our head of security.
He says that any solution that the organization purchases, it must be in the leaders only if that solution
is in the visionaries, he'll not really even look into it.
Only the leaders related platform.
He look both in terms of demo.
We had a POC and so on, and we used to use Splunk very extensively in the organization, and Splunk
has been a leader since past many years.
And when you start working with Splunk in a real world environment, you will understand why.
Now, one more interesting part of Splunk is that not only it can monitor the logs, it can also monitor
the network traffic at a server level, such as the DNS traffic, the TCP, UDP traffic, the HTTP packet
captures, and so on.
And this is one of the great benefits a lot of organizations.
They use Splunk to monitor the network traffic.
Let me also quickly show you this.
So going back to Splunk this time we have a dashboard related to the network activity events.
So all of the data is based on the network events that Splunk has captured.
Now one more thing that I would like to share is that in fact, let's go back to search and reporting
over here.
This is a separate Splunk instance for demo.
Now if I quickly look into the sources or the source types over here, you see there are a wide range
of network events that it has captured.
Many events are related to the DNS queries.
Many events are related to http, ICMP.
So if someone pings the server or if some server is pinging some other third party servers, those are
part of ICMP protocol.
So all of the data related to these protocols are captured.
Now let me give you an example of DNS protocol over here.
So you see there are so many DNS events are captured.
And this are all of the details.
For example it shows you the host address.
It shows you the name.
It shows you the actual query.
So if I quickly open this this is the name resolution that server is trying to obtain.
The query type is this and so on.
It shows you the time to live and so on.
So this proves to be very useful in organizations.
There are many attacks that you can easily detect if you are monitoring the DNS related traffic from
your servers.
And as we were discussing, it is not just DNS.
It can be TCP, IP traffic, UDP traffic and so on.
In fact, let me also quickly show you.
So if you will see there are so many protocols that are supported.
You see you have a DHCP, FTP, HTTP, you have iMap, you have Ldap and so on.
So based on what you want to capture, all of these are supported.
And not only this you can also customize it.
For example let's take DNS.
So let me just search for DNS.
So even DNS you can customize what exactly you want to capture.
For example you want to capture the bytes.
You want to capture the query type the response time and so on.
Based on this you will get the necessary data indexed in Splunk.
So this is one of the true power that Splunk provides.
Now one more very important area that Splunk so powerful is the add ons and apps.
Now let's take a simple example of mobile phones.
So in mobile phones, Android phones and iOS phones are the most popular.
There are other operating systems that are also available.
But why Android and iOS are so popular is because they have so many apps that are available as part
of the Play Store.
So here WhatsApp, you have Gmail, you have all kind of apps that are available.
So because of those apps and the entire ecosystem, the Android and iOS become so popular.
Similarly, in Splunk, also, they have thousands of add ons and apps that are available.
For example, let's say that your organization is making use of AWS so you can search for Amazon Web
Services.
You see you have Splunk add on for Amazon Web Services.
Similarly, tomorrow let's say that your organization has started to use Kubernetes.
So if you search for Kubernetes, you see you have various add ons and apps that are available for Kubernetes.
So because of this, readymade add ons and apps that are available in Splunk, things becomes much more
easier.
And this, I would say, is one of the great benefits of using Splunk.
Now, before we conclude this video, I'd like to share my own personal journey with Splunk.
So in the organization that I was working with, we used to have more than 100 AWS accounts.
We used to have thousands of servers along with various devices like Web application firewalls, the
intrusion prevention system, and various others.
Now, as we know, when you have such a large infrastructure stack, centralized analysis platform is
a must.
And we used to use Splunk very extensively.
So I led the efforts to build the highly available distributed Splunk cluster for the entire organization.
And all of the integrations of AWS account servers, etc. are used to take care of it for the entire
organization.
So we used to make use of Splunk along with its CRM platform, which is the enterprise security, and
it was a very interesting journey.
Along with that, we also had a dedicated SOC team.
So SOC team would look something similar to this.
So room was very similar, not exactly similar to this, but it was very similar where all of the dashboards
used to appear.
And we used to have around ten people who used to monitor the logs and events from Splunk 24 over seven.
And whenever any alert got generated some form of a high priority alert, the SOC team would call the
security team the one who would be on call.
And then we used to monitor and see what exactly went wrong, or there are any security attacks that
are happening.
So all of those things we used to do and the Splunk license type that we used to have was around 500
GB per day, and this was good enough to accommodate the security related logs and events across the
organization.
Now that we understand some of the great benefits that Splunk provides, let's look into what this course
is going to be all about at an overview.
This course will help you build a very strong foundation on Splunk from the architectural perspective.
So as part of this course, we are going to look into how you can ingest the logs.
So logs from servers logs from AWS accounts network devices etc..
How you can push the logs to Splunk.
This is one very important thing that we are going to analyze.
Then once the log events are pushed, we are going to look into how we can analyze how we can find the
attack patterns from the log events.
Then we are going to build amazing set of dashboards.
We'll learn on how to build dashboards.
And the most important part will also go ahead and discuss on how you can build a highly available Splunk
cluster for your organization.
So when we discuss about Splunk, you can install it in one big server.
But what happens if that big server goes down?
Then your entire Splunk related activities will stop working.
So in larger organization, you will have a highly available clustered Splunk architectures.
So it is important for us to understand the subcomponents.
For example, in Splunk you have search head, you have indexers, then you have forwarders, you have
deployment servers, etc..
So you have to understand in detail about each component and also how you can build it in a highly available
manner.
So we are going to discuss about indexer clustering, how to have a highly available search head cluster,
and so on.
This is also something which is very useful.
And when you start to work with Splunk in real world organization, all of these things will prove to
be extremely important.
We have a very detailed set of videos on this also available as part of this course.
Before we conclude, I would like to give a short introduction about me.
I primarily work as a DevSecOps engineer into the area of defensive security.
Teaching has been one of my passions since a long time, so even before I started to work on Udemy related
courses, I used to take a lot of seminars workshops across colleges in India related to wide areas
like wireless security, AWS, Linux security, and so on.
As of now, we have more than 16 courses that are available with more than four 20,000 students who
have enrolled for our courses.
Apart from that, I am a Red Hat Certified Architect.
I am a certified Ethical hacker.
I have certifications like AWS Certified Advanced Networking Specialty, AWS Security Specialty, DevOps
Engineer Professional, and so on.
I am also HashiCorp certified, Terraform Professional, vault console, etc. and whenever I get free
time, I work as a part time security consultant and I hold more than 13 certifications as well.
So that's an overview about what this course is going to be all about.
I'm very excited for this course and I hope you are too.

--- Our Community ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Introduction to Splunk & Setting Up Labs ===


--- PPT for Entire Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Getting started with Splunk ===


--- Introduction to Splunk ---

-: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
So today's video is dedicated
towards introduction to Splunk.
So let's get started.
So Splunk is one of the most popular log analyzing
as well as monitoring tool, which is available
in the industry currently.
Now, basically, Splunk is a software platform,
which allows us to search, analyze,
as well as visualize the machine-generated data,
which can be gathered from wide variety of devices.
So this can be explained with the screenshot over here,
where on the left hand side you have data,
which is gathered from various servers,
active directory, applications, virtual machines,
databases, et cetera,
or it can be any machine-generated data.
It goes to Splunk.
And basically, depending upon the queries that you read,
you can generate great meaningful dashboards
in minimum amount of time.
So these are some of the dashboards
that you can literally create within few minutes.
And we have, in the later videos,
we look into how we can create these dashboards
as well as prioritize events based on severity.
So if you'll see, you have a red,
you have a blue, and you have a yellow.
So red means that this event is more critical
than that of the yellow or that of the blue.
So all of these are much more easier to create in Splunk
when you compare it with the other log monitoring
and analyzing tools.
Now, one of the features which makes Splunk
really powerful is its marketplace.
Now, Splunk has its own marketplace,
which is also referred as Splunkbase,
where people and organization
can submit their applications and add-ons.
Now, due to this,
it really allows customers to use out-of-the-box solutions
for wide variety of use cases.
Now, one of the example that I can give you is for Android.
So if you talk about Android marketplace, it is huge,
and you'll typically get most of the applications,
which are typically available in the mobile space.
So any developer who might write application,
definitely, he'll put it first to Android and iOS,
because those are the two most famous mobile platforms
which are available.
However, when you compare that with Windows,
people have stopped writing or stopped putting
the application to the Windows OS.
Android and iOS are more famous.
Similarly, for Splunk,
there are a wide variety of apps and items,
which are available within this marketplace.
So let's look into how exactly it might look like.
So if you look into the Splunkbase,
if you go a bit down, you can basically browse
your applications by category.
So for DevOps, you have 112 apps,
for utilities, 674,
security, fraud and compliance, 858,
IT operations is 884, and so many.
So let's say that you have AWS within your environment.
AWS is pretty famous.
You just type "AWS," and you have so many apps
and add-ons which are available for AWS.
So if you just click on one of them,
which is Splunk App for AWS,
you see you have a ready-made app,
which contains so many dashboards pre-built.
All you have to do is you have to download it
and install it within your Splunk,
and you'll have all of these functionalities out of the box.
And this power of Splunk marketplace really makes Splunk
a very powerful log monitoring as well as analyzing tools,
which many organization prefers.
Now, Splunk has been more than just a log analyzing tool
because of its ease of learning curve.
You'll see in the later videos
how easy it is to learn Splunk.
And because of its powerful Splunk query language,
it really becomes easy to promote Splunk
in various niche-specific areas.
So Splunk has been promoting
and been developing new applications,
which are very specific to areas like security,
information, and even management, which is SIEM.
You have Splunk IT Service Intelligence,
you have Splunk User Behavior and Analytics, and many more.
So if we quickly look here.
So this is Splunk Enterprise Security.
So this is an app, which you have to install
on top of your Splunk Enterprise.
And this app really gives you a very powerful dashboards
related to the SIEM solution.
And I have used Splunk Enterprise Security,
and it really gives you a lot of capabilities
to detect anomalies, specifically,
when it comes to the security's concern.
You also have this Splunk User Behavioral Analytics,
which is also a powerful solution.
And apart from that, Splunk has been promoting itself
rapidly by developing various dashboards for compliance.
So you see, this is Splunk App for PCI Compliance.
So if your organization is PCI DSS compliant,
you can use this app for PCI compliance,
which really makes it easy for the management to see
whether your organization is compliant,
or if not compliant, what are the improvement areas?
It also helps auditor to easily assess
if there are some things which are missing or not.
So all of these functionalities really makes Splunk
a very powerful product.
So coming back to our PowerPoint slide,
one last thing that I wanted to show you
is the Magic Quadrant for the SIEM.
And currently, you see,
although Splunk was not traditionally an SIEM solution,
it was more of a big data, log monitoring,
log analyzing solution, after the introduction
of Splunk Enterprise Security,
Splunk has been one of the top solutions within SIEM.
Now, this is only because of its powerful log analyzing,
log monitoring,
as well as its powerful SPL commands capability
which Splunk has.
So that's about the introduction to Splunk.
In the upcoming videos, we'll go ahead and set up
our labs post, which we can analyze
the true beauty of Splunk after we go ahead and install it.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you,
and I look forward to see you in the next video.


=== Splunk Architecture ===


--- Installation Methods for Splunk ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video we'll be discussing about
the installation aspects of Splunk.
Now there are two primary ways for installing Splunk.
The first one is where you go ahead and download
and install the Splunk Enterprise
using an installation package.
So installation package is like a single file
which we double click on
and the entire application gets installed for us.
So typically in Windows it ends with an extension of .msi.
And if we discuss about Mac
then you have a DMG based extension types.
So that is what the first approach is all about.
The second approach is where we go ahead
and download the Splunk Enterprise Docker image.
So the second approach is also quite popular nowadays
in the Enterprise.
However, the only challenge is
that you need to know the basics of Docker.
Now when we discuss about the first installation method,
which is via the installation package,
one of the great things here
is that the Splunk can be installed
in wide variety of operating systems.
So it can be installed in Windows,
it can be installed in Mac OS,
it can also be installed in Linux.
However, one of the caveats here
is that not all of the versions
of the operating systems are supported.
So let's quickly look into these.
So currently I have Splunk running.
However, this Splunk Enterprise is currently installed
in my Windows 10 operating system directly on my laptop.
So now what I can do is
I can go ahead and easily test various features of Splunk
within the local laptop
without really requiring the internet connectivity.
Now within my Windows 10, under the apps and features,
these are basically the apps that are currently installed
in my operating system.
So one among them, if I just search for Splunk,
you should see I have one app of Splunk Enterprise
of size 139GB, which is installed.
So let's say after one week, I'm done with my local testing
and I do not really need Splunk Enterprise yet,
I can easily go ahead and uninstall it.
Now within the first pointer of slide
we were also discussing on how we can download and install
this Splunk Enterprise via the installation package.
So in Windows the installation package
looks something similar to this.
So you have a single file ending with the .msi extension,
and all you need to do to install Splunk
is you have to double click on it
and the installation process will start.
So let me show you.
So currently this might not work
because I already have Splunk installed,
but you basically get an error stating
that the Splunk is installed.
However, this is a very simple visit,
if you have installed any application within Windows,
this is very similar to that.
And same goes even for Mac OS operating system.
Now one of the things that we were discussing is
that although Splunk is supported
by a lot of operating system versions,
not all of the versions are supported.
So for example, Windows comes with a lot of versions
ranging from XP, you have Windows 2000, Windows 7,
Windows 8, Windows 10,
and even Windows 11 is getting launched.
Similarly, same applies for Mac OS as well.
Now from the Splunk website,
when you go ahead and download
the latest Splunk Enterprise version
you see that the installation package here is supported
for Windows, for Linux, as well as for Mac OS.
So it also shows you the versions that are supported.
So currently Windows 10 is supported
and Windows server 2016/2019.
For Mac OS, there are two versions that are supported.
So you have OS X 10.14, OS X 10.15.
Do note that the version 11 is not yet supported for Splunk.
Now one more important thing to know,
in fact this is something that you'll
not directly see over here.
In fact, if you look into the system requirements
for Splunk Enterprise
this is where you'll get things in more detail.
So basically if you look into the Unix operating system,
so these are the operating systems
that are supported by Splunk Enterprise.
So for Mac OS 10.15 and 10.14,
the free license it is currently showing as D.
So D basically means that it is currently supported
but it is in a deprecated mode.
That means in the future releases
this specific support will be removed.
This is a very important part too, remember over here.
And similarly,
if you look into the Windows operating system
for Windows 10,
the Enterprise license is not supported.
So X basically means it is supported and there is a Nul,
Nul basically means it is not supported.
So Enterprise license is not supported.
The free license is supported,
the trial license is supported
and even the universal forwarder package is supported.
However, if you discuss about Windows Server 2016 and 2019
Enterprise free trial as well
as the universal forward order package,
all of them are supported.
And same if you'll see for Linux,
you will see all of them to be supported here. Great.
Now for this course,
the preferred choice for our Splunk installation
would be the operating system of Linux.
Now we already know that
although Windows and Mac OS is supported,
however, not everything is supported.
So for example, for Windows 10
the Enterprise license is not supported.
For Mac OS, although things are working now
but it is in the deprecated mode
and maybe the future version might be supported
but you see things keeps on changing here.
However, for Linux,
we know that Linux will always be supported
primarily because most of the Enterprises
that are running Splunk
they run it on top of Linux operating system.
Now to quickly revise the overall architecture.
The operating system that we'll be running on
would be Ubunto.
So this will be a de-facto choice,
and the cloud provider that will be running on
will be DigitalOcean.
So if you're running a Linux operating system,
you'll need either a virtual machine
or a physical installation.
So you can... In case if you have a VMware
or a virtual box in your local laptop
you can go ahead and install a Ubunto operating system here.
However, the preferred choice
that we'll be using throughout the course
would be the cloud provider of DigitalOcean.
Now, one of the questions that comes is why DigitalOcean?
There are so many other popular cloud providers
like AWS, Azure, GCP and so on.
So let's quickly look into it.
Now, one of the great benefits of DigitalOcean
is its simplicity and affordability.
And this is what the first point is all about.
So it is very simple and straightforward
to quickly launch a new server in DigitalOcean.
Much more simpler than the other cloud providers.
So this is first reason why we are choosing DigitalOcean.
And the second primary important benefit
behind the DigitalOcean is because
they provide a lot of coupon codes
which gives great amount of credits
that ranges from 50 to 100 USD for new users.
So let's quickly look into it.
Now currently I'm in the DigitalOcean website
and if you go a bit down into the pricing page,
so this is basically the pricing for Droplets.
So Droplets is nothing but a server here.
So if you'll see the pricing starts with $5 a month
and they provide you 1GB of RAM, 1 CPU,
25 GB of SSD data
so this is a pretty good hardware at this specific cost.
So in the later section of the course
when we discuss about various advanced topics
related to Splunk
like high availability clustering,
failover capabilities and so on.
So in order to test things out,
you need multiple instances or multiple servers
that are running Splunk.
So if we look into this diagram,
you have server one, server two, server three
server four, server five, server six, and so on.
So multiple servers are needed
for testing all of these capabilities.
So what you need is you need a cloud provider
that is not only cheap
but also gives some amount of referral credits
that can allow us to complete the entire course,
possibly without paying a penny on the infrastructure cost.
And this is the second reason
why we are choosing DigitalOcean.
So if you'll look over here for new users,
the DigitalOcean provides $100 of credit
through a referral code
and this $100 of credit can be used
over a period of 60 days.
And this is the reason why we are choosing DigitalOcean
for our environment.
Now, in fact, even for our other courses
like Kubernetes courses,
we primarily make use of DigitalOcean.
So students, after they get the credit,
they can launch the entire Kubernetes cluster
in DigitalOcean
without even having to spend a penny over here.
Now do note that this is not an advertising video
for DigitalOcean.
The only reason why we are choosing this
is because of the simplicity
and the credits that we receive.
However, in case if you have credits
for other cloud providers,
maybe AWS, Azure, DCP, you can even use that.
Now in case if you are using a different cloud provider
or in case if you're using a virtual machine
in your local laptop,
one important thing to make note of is the operating system.
Make sure that you use a operating system of Ubuntu
so that we are on the same page.
That's great.
So in fact, if you'll be using DigitalOcean,
what I'll do after this video,
I'll be adding up the referral quote,
which you can use to sign up
and get the hundred dollars of credit
because in the later part of this section
we'll start with that installation process of Splunk.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.


=== Forwarder & User Management ===


--- Document - MSSP ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Post Installation Activities ===


--- Creating Splunk Account ---

-: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video we'll be discussing
about creating our first Splunk account.
Now before we start with our practicals,
creating a Splunk account is a first
and a very important step
and it primarily allows us to perform a lot of operations.
So some of these includes the free trial and download,
so in case if you have a Splunk account,
you can go ahead and download
the free trial version of Splunk.
And along with that
you can also go ahead and download various apps
and add-ons that are part of a Splunk marketplace.
So let me quickly give an overview,
so currently I have a Splunk enterprise
that is up and running.
And let's say that I want to go ahead
and install a new application
on top of my Splunk enterprise.
So I'll just use a random one over here,
so when I click on install immediately here,
it asks me for a username and password
associated with splunk.com.
And this is one of the reason why it is important
to have a Splunk account here.
So within the signup page, you can go ahead
and quickly create a new Splunk account here
by specifying name, email address, phone number
and other things.
Now in my case, I already have a personal Splunk account
but just to understand the entire workflow,
I'll create a new account.
So in terms of first name,
I'll just give a last name over here
and in the last name I just specify Z.
In terms of job title,
you can just specify job title here,
email address, you can just specify email address,
which is not associated with a Splunk account.
For the phone number, let me add a phone number here.
For a company, you can just specify
something like a student.
Scrolling down, the next important part is the user name
this is one important thing that needs to be noted
and let's also specify a password over here.
I'll agree to the terms and condition,
and let's go ahead and create our account.
So in the next step,
it is basically asking us to validate the email
so let's quickly do that.
Now from the email address
that you have specified during the signup,
you'll basically get an email stating, "Welcome to Splunk."
And the most important part is to verify your email button.
So let's go ahead and quickly click on it
and you should see, "Congratulations, you're good to go."
So now you can go ahead and quickly log in,
so let's quickly do that.
Perfect, so now you see we are currently logged into Splunk.
Now once you're logged in,
you can go ahead and request for free trial.
You can go ahead and use your credentials
once your Splunk is up and running
to install various apps and add-ons as well.
So from your account, if you'll go bit down
you see you can quickly request for trial version of Splunk
and do various other things as well.
Now, one important thing,
specifically this might be faced by some users
during the signup process,
is that the Splunk signup process
might fail due to restrictions based on name
and countries that are part of the consolidated list.
So the consolidated list is basically a list
of all the person and entities
who are subjected to a targeted financial sanction.
So this is a list that is being released by the government.
So although as a student this might not really impact us,
however, it has been noted that even a lot of students,
once they quickly sign up
they get this specific message
which states that due to US export compliance requirements
Splunk has temporarily suspended your access.
And the way to overcome
is you can connect with this Splunk team
and you'll have to provide various details
like your full name, mailing address, email,
and then they'll go ahead and activate your account.
So although this is something
that will not be faced by most of the users,
in case if you face this,
this is the reason why we have added this
as part of the slide.
That's great.
So go ahead and quickly create your own Splunk account
so that in the upcoming videos
we can quickly download these Splunk enterprise
and get started with learning
some of the great features of Splunk.


=== Security Primer ===


--- Launching Infrastructure for Splunk ---

Instructor: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we'll go ahead and create
our infrastructure for Splunk installation.
So, to begin with a Splunk installation process,
we need one server, which is hosting
a Ubuntu operating system.
So, after we have this server up and running,
the second step would be to install Splunk.
Now, one more important thing that we need to notice,
that once the server is up and running,
what are the authentication types that we can use
to connect to the server?
Now, one of the most common one is
the password based authentication.
So, this is pretty straightforward to understand.
So, from your client, which would be your laptop,
you can go ahead and quickly connect
to your Linux server stating your username.
So it states, my username is admin and I want to log in.
Now, if a password based authentication
is enabled on the server,
then the server will respond back
asking you for your password.
So, once you supply your username
and you supply your password, your login will be successful,
and then you can begin the installation process.
Now, password based authentication is still supported
by a lot of cloud service providers,
but it is generally considered to be less secure.
Now, I still remember in one of the first organizations
that I used to work with,
I primarily had a role of a system administrator.
And, what most of the users they used to do
the login password for their computers.
They used to write it in a sticky note,
and they used to paste that sticky note
on the back of the keyboard.
And, most of the users used to do that.
So, this is one challenge, and the second challenge is
that most users would not really create a complex password
that is difficult to brute force into.
Nowadays, with modern GPUs, it is becoming much more faster
for the attacker to do a brute force attacks
on the system that supports password based authentication.
So for internet, this is something that should be avoided.
The second, idle authentication mechanism,
is a key based authentication.
So, in this type of authentication, what happens is that
there are two special keys that are generated.
First one is called as a public key
and second is called as a private key.
So, similar to what we see in the diagram,
you have a public key, you have a private key.
So, the basic concept is that the public key
is stored in the server and then a authentication mechanism
is associated with the key.
So, what will happen is, only when you try to log in
with the corresponding private key that is associated
with the public key store in the server,
will you be able to authenticate successfully.
Otherwise, not.
All right, so if you'll quickly look into the diagram.
The laptop client first tries to log in
with the username as admin.
The server, since it has a key based authentication,
so here you see, you have a public key which is present
on the server.
So, here it states that the server responds
that a password based authentication is not allowed.
So, you need to authenticate with a key.
So, the private key that is stored in the laptop.
Once this key is used as part of the authentication,
then the overall authentication can be successful.
Now, to quickly give you a demo,
I have two set of key pairs that I've created.
So, one is the public key, which is stored in the server,
and second is the private key.
So, if I'll quickly show you
the contents of the private key.
You see, the overall contents of the private key
is very big.
So, it is very difficult
that a attacker will be able to break it.
And, this is the reason why using the key based
authentication is much more recommended
than the password based ones.
So, for the server that we will be creating,
we will be using a key based authentication
for our use case.
So, one of the first step that will be implementing
is to create a public and a private key pair.
Once this set of key pairs are created,
we'll be creating a new server and we'll be linking it
with the public key that we have just created.
And then, we'll use the private key to log into the server.
So, to create a public and a private key
is pretty straightforward.
So, if I open up the command prompt over here.
So, this is Windows 10, you need to make sure
that the SSH related utilities are enabled.
So currently,
if I do SSH from the command prompt of Windows,
you see I am getting a usage information.
If you are using MacOS, things are pretty straightforward,
because SSH comes by default enabled within the terminal.
If you're using Microsoft Windows,
then you need to enable SSH explicitly.
So, if you'll quickly go
to add or remove programs over here.
Within here, you have a optional features.
And when you search for SSH, make sure that you enable
the open SSH related features over here.
The second option is you can use various terminals,
like, for example, you have mobile extern,
or even PUTTy that can also be used if you're using Windows.
So, for today's demo,
we'll be using a native feature of SSH.
So, the way in which we can create
a new public private key is to use SSH keygen.
Now, this command works perfectly well,
even for Mac, Linux, as well as Windows.
So, let me go ahead and press enter.
So, it is stating generating public and private key,
and it is also stating, where do we need to store this key?
So, I'll just press enter, this is the default location.
That is fine.
I'll press enter and great.
Here you see the SSH public, as well as the private key,
is stored in this specific path.
So, within my home directory here, you should see
a new .SSH file has been created,
and here you have a private key,
and here you have a public key.
That is great.
So, once we have the public and a private key,
we can go ahead and start to launch our first server.
So, within the DigitalOcean environment,
if you'll quickly go to droplets,
we can go ahead and quickly create a new droplet.
So again, droplet is nothing but a server.
So in AWS terms, it is an EC2 instance.
So within here, you can go ahead and select
the Ubuntu image.
Within the type of hardware that we need, we'll just select
the one associated with $5 per month instance over here.
And, the next part is to choose a data center region.
So, data center region,
you can choose the one that is nearer to your location.
Let me just select Bangalore over here.
All right. And now the next important step
is the authentication here.
So, as we were discussing, DigitalOcean supports
two primary kind of authentication.
One is via the password,
and second is we have the SSH key.
So, here you'll see for the password it states less secure.
So, what we'll do, we'll select the SSH key.
Now, what we'll be doing,
since we have already created SSH key,
we'll go ahead and click on new SSH key over here,
and we'll past the contents of our key that we have created.
So, let's open this file quickly.
The pub file.
I'll open it up with one of the editors.
You can even open this up with notepad.
Great. So, this is how the public key looks like.
Let me copy this up and I'll paste it within the console,
and let's just call it as Splunk key, to easily identify.
Now, on the right hand side,
it is also giving you the command to go ahead
and generate the key.
This is something that we have already seen.
Once you have pasted the public key,
you can just go ahead and add your SSH key.
And now, whatever instances that you create
as part of the project,
you can select the Splunk key that we have just created.
Now, in terms of how many droplet we need,
for the time being, we just need a single droplet,
and you can just name it as Splunk droplet,
and you can go ahead and create a droplet over here.
Great. So, it took around two minutes,
and our server is up and running.
And here you'll see, that the DigitalOcean
has also given you a public IP of the server.
So, let's go ahead and copy this up.
And, from the CLI, let's quickly do SSH.
We'll use root,
and we'll specify the public IP of our server.
And, you see we are logged in successfully here.
Great. So we have completed two important steps.
First is to create our own key pair,
and launching a server using a key based authentication.
Now do note that,
if you're using a different cloud provider like AWS,
by default, AWS supports the key based authentication.
So, something similar to what we have seen
in DigitalOcean, it does not really support
a password based authentication natively.
So, in case if you are using AWS,
what you can do is, under the key pairs over here,
you can manually go ahead and import the key pair.
And within here, you can paste
the contents of the public key,
and you can just name it as Splunk key.
Something very similar to what we had done in DigitalOcean.
Now, the third, and a very important part,
is related to the firewall rule.
Now, since our server is on the internet,
everyone across the internet will be able
to connect to our server.
So, this is something that we do not really want,
specifically when it comes to the SSH port.
So, what you need to do is with the help of firewall,
you can restrict the connection to your Splunk instance.
So, primarily, you will need two connections here,
port 22 and port 8000.
So, port 22 will be used for you to connect to the server
for your SSH,
and port 8000 is where the Splunk instance would be running.
So, what you can do is, for port 22 and for the port 8000,
you can manually specify your IP address,
so that no one in the internet,
except this specific IP address,
will be able to connect to the droplet here.
So, let's look into it.
Now, at this stage,
if I'll quickly open up the droplet over here.
Let's go to networking.
If I'll go a bit down, here you see it states
no firewalls are applied to the droplet.
So, basically, everyone from the internet,
including the attackers,
will be able to connect to the server.
This is something that you do not really want.
So, let's go ahead and attach a firewall here.
So, you can quickly create a new firewall rule.
Let's just call it as Splunk firewall.
And here for the SSH port,
currently all IPV4 and all IPV6 traffic is allowed.
Let's keep it this way just for a moment.
And, the second port that you might want to allow,
is the custom one, based on TCP,
and the port is 8000 where the Splunk instance listening.
Now, what you can do is,
instead of allowing the entire internet to connect here,
you can just do a what's my IP in Google,
and you'll get your IP address here.
You can copy the IP address.
And here, just paste the IP address
for both the port 8000 and 22.
All right, so now only this IP address
will be able to make connection to the server.
Outbound rule just allow the default ones,
whatever is applied here.
And, to apply to the droplet, let's just search it
by the name of our droplet, which is Splunk droplet.
We'll go ahead and create a firewall rule.
So, to test if things are working,
let's go ahead and log out.
So, you can type the log out command,
in case if you want to log out,
or you can press control+D in Windows.
Let's clear the screen.
Let's try to connect to the server.
And, if things are working well,
you'll be able to log in successfully.
Now, one important part to remember,
is that many of us will have dynamic IPs.
So, dynamic IPs is where once you restart your wifi router
the IP address keeps on changing.
So, this is bit of a pain.
So, every time your IP address change,
you'll have to manually edit the firewall rule,
so that you'll be able to connect to the instance
via your new IP.
So, in such cases, if that is something
that has been troublesome for you,
what you can do is you can allow port 8000
for the entire world.
However, just keep the port 22 to your IP.
So, this is much more secure,
because what happens is that in the internet,
most of the attackers will first target the port 22,
and they'll start the brute force attack.
So, this is one of the important port that we need to block.
In case if you do not block,
you can also explore lot of attacks,
which is also a very interesting project by itself.
And maybe, in our course related to the security monitoring,
we'll be discussing those in more detail.
So, internet is very interesting.
Specifically because of the attackers.
That's great.
So, with this we'll conclude today's video,
and in the upcoming video we'll go ahead and install Splunk.


=== Distributed Splunk Architecture ===


--- Installing Splunk in Linux ---

-: Hey you doing and welcome back.
So now that we have our server up and running,
the next important step is to go ahead and install Splunk.
So in today's video we'll be precisely doing that.
Now, the first important part here is that you need to
log into a Splunk account.
Once there let's quickly open up the dashboard and
for the free trials and download,
let's open up the Splunk Enterprise.
And within here there are 3 options,
Windows, Linux, and Mac OS.
Let's select Linux.
Now, within here again, there are multiple approaches.
So you have a .deb which works
perfectly well for Ubuntu based systems.
You have .rpm which works perfectly well for a
Red Hat based systems like CentOS and others.
So the one that we are interested in
is the .deb related package.
Now do note that the world size is also a little big
so somewhere around 417 mb,
but if you're doing it in a server,
this is something that will be very quick.
So let's go ahead and click on download now.
So this will go ahead and
initiate the download in your browser.
Let's go ahead and cancel the download within the browser.
We do not really need, but the important part here
is you need to get a command associated with W get.
So let's go ahead and copy this up.
It will basically give you the entire command to
download Splunk within the Linux OS.
So let's copy this up and within your Linux server
you can go ahead and paste this and let's press enter.
So this should go ahead and start to download Splunk.
Perfect.
So it took less than a minute for us to
download the Splunk order.
So now if I do a LS you should see that
you have a Splunk package.
The way in which you can go and install it
is to run a deep package hyphen I,
followed by the name of the downloaded file here.
Once then I'll go ahead and press enter.
So it is unpacking Splunk and it will also go ahead
and do the necessary configuration.
Now do not that this step can take around 5 minutes
for it to be completed.
So let's quickly wait here.
All right? So our setting up of Splunk is now completed.
Now if you go to opt Splunk,
and if you do LS so all of these files are
related to your Splunk installation.
Now in order to verify if Splunk is running,
one quick way is to run the Netstat NTLP command over here.
So it states that Netstat is not installed,
so we can go ahead and quickly install it.
So let's say add to install net tools.
Great, so Netstat has been installed.
So now let's run the Netstat hyphen NTLP command yet again.
And within here you see that you do not really
have any process that is listening on the port of 8,000.
So we can easily assume that this Splunk is not yet running.
So in order to start Splunk,
what you need to do is under the opt Splunk,
you have one more directory of bent.
So let's quickly open this up.
And within here you have this plug binary.
So what you can do is you can verify the status.
So you can say Splunk status.
And at this stage, the first time when you run it
it basically will ask you to accept the license agreement.
So let's press the space bar multiple times
so that we can go ahead and read it.
And at the end it will ask you
whether you agree to the license or not.
So let's press Y.
Now it will ask you for the username
that you want to use for your Splunk.
Let me go ahead and give a username.
Let's just call it a Z.
And within the password
let's just give it a strong password here.
That's great.
So now you can go ahead and verify the status.
So if you'll do a Splunk status,
it states Splunk is not running.
So in order to start it
you can run the same command with the option of start.
Now one more way in which you can do that.
In case if you're not in this opt Splunk directory
you can directly run the full path
which is opt Splunk bin Splunk.
If you do a status,
it will give you the status
and if you want to start it,
you can just do a start over here.
Perfect. So this can take a minute
and currently you see it states
that this Splunk web interface is available
on the port of 8,000.
So if you'll quickly do a Netstat on the NTLP over here,
you should see that you have Splunk D program
that is associated with the port of 8,000 for this server.
So let's quickly do I F configure,
that will give us the public IP of the server.
So this is the public IP associated with the server.
I'll copy this up.
Let me go ahead and paste the public IP,
followed by the port of 8,000 over here.
If things are working well and if your firewall is allowing
you should see the Splunk page.
All right, so this is how the Splunk login page looks like.
You can go ahead and supply your username and password here
and then you can click on sign in.
And great.
You'll basically get a welcome message
and your Splunk is up and running.
Now one more important thing that I wanted to show you
is that on the left hand side it basically
gives you a lot of apps related to Python upgrade readiness
primarily because in the newer version of Splunk
the Python version was also upgraded.
So the primary app that we need is the search
and reporting app.
So this is where the magic of Splunk really plays around.
So first thing when you open it
it will basically give you a 2 related pop-ups.
So we can go ahead and skip it.
And now what you can do is once you have the data
you can go ahead and create various Splunk queries to
create various set of interesting dashboards.
Now, before we do that
what you can also do is to keep things neat and clean.
The other apps that are currently showing here
you can go ahead and remove the visibility.
So what you can do is you can quickly open
up the settings over here
and it basically shows you all the apps.
Let's go ahead and first you have a
Splunk essential for cloud.
So this is what we were seeing.
So within here, you can go ahead and edit the properties
and within the visible, you can just set it as no.
Similarly, let's search for Python.
So you have a Python upgrade readiness app.
Let's do edit properties.
Let's set the visibility to no.
And the third one is the Splunk secure gateway.
Let's search it.
Let's edit the property
and let's set the visibility to no.
Perfect. So now if you'll quickly refresh the page
you should primarily see one search and reporting app
and our Splunk looks clean, tidy, and ready to be explored.
That's great.
So with this will conclude today's video.


=== Indexer Clustering ===


--- Document - Splunk Install Commands for Linux ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Search Head Clustering ===


--- Installing Splunk in Windows ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now in the installation video
we were discussing on how Splunk is supported
for a lot of operating system
including Windows as well as macOS,
but the only caveat was that only a specific set
of versions of the operating systems are supported.
So for the Windows 10 users
or even if you have a Windows server,
we look into how we can install Splunk
for that operating system.
So from your Splunk account, you can go to your dashboard
and within hear under the free trials and download,
you can go to Splunk Enterprise
and now here three OS,
just make sure that whatever operating system
you're installing in it is supported officially.
You have the extension of dot MSI and the sizes 358 MB.
So all you can go ahead and do
is you can click on download now.
So this should go ahead
and start to download the Splunk installer.
So once the installer has been downloaded
all you need to do is you'll have to double click on it.
So once you double click on it,
it opens up the Windows installer
and this Splunk installation process will start.
So now first thing you'll have to quickly
accept the license agreement, let's click on next.
You'll have to specify your user name and password.
So let's say user name is Z,
and you can set your own password over here.
Once done you can click on next
and you can click on install.
And the installation process has now started.
All right, so it took around four to five minutes
and our Splunk installation is now completed.
So now you can go ahead and click on finish,
and since you also have a checkbox
of launch browser with Splunk Enterprise,
it should go ahead and launch Splunk in the browser.
So here you see you basically get the user and password.
Let's go ahead and enter the user
and password that we had set.
And here we should see the main console of Splunk.
Now one more important part to remember
and similar to what we had seen in the earlier video
where we're installing Splunk on Linux,
is that there are lot of other apps
that you can see over here in the main console.
These are something that we might not really need.
We only need to start with a search and reporting,
so this is one of the most important tabs.
So in case if you want to clip your Splunk neat and tidy,
you can go ahead and remove the visibility here.
So let's go ahead
and open up the settings here for the apps.
So here, from here you can select the app.
So you have Splunk Essentials for cloud and enterprise.
This is something that you could see.
What you can do, you can go to the property section.
Let's open the properties in the new tab
and you can set the visibility to no.
Alright, so if you'll quickly refresh this,
the app is no longer visible.
Similarly for Splunk Secure Gateway, let's search it.
Let's edit the property.
We'll set the visibility to no,
and the last one is the Python,
so you have a Python readiness app.
Let's edit the property
and let's set the visibility to no.
So now if you'll quickly refresh this Splunk main page,
you should only see the search and reporting app
so this looks pretty neat and tidy
for us to start exploring Splunk.
Now, one more thing I wanted to show
is that after you close the browser,
and let's say you want to open up Splunk page again,
do note that Splunk listens on the port of 8,000.
So if you want to open this app,
you can open up 127001,
followed by colon, followed by 8,000.
So let me quickly show you.
So within here I'll say 127001-8000,
let's press enter and our Splunk page should load up.
That's great.
So I hope with this you understood
the basics of installation of Splunk in Windows,
as we have seen it is a very straightforward process
for the oral installation.


=== Advanced Splunk Concepts ===


--- Introduction to Docker Containers - New ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing
about the basics of Docker
the advantages that the Docker offers, which really makes it
as one of the great technologies available
and also a small demo before we conclude the video.
So, let's go ahead and understand more about it.
Now, before we go ahead
and understand the advantages that the Docker offers
let's look into a typical installation of software workflow.
I'm sure that most of you might have already
experienced this with your work station.
Now, let's say that we have a Windows operating system
and you want to install certain application
or you want to install a certain game.
Now, the first step is to download the installer.
So installer would be a typical .exe file.
Now, once you download the installer
you go ahead and double-click
on the .exe file, so that the installer starts to run.
Now, during the middle of the installation
many of you might have already experienced
that you get a error message
during installation saying that certain files are missing
or certain dependencies are missing, et cetera.
So you start to troubleshoot the issue so that
you understand the fix to solve this specific error message.
Now, once you troubleshoot it
and once you install a specific dependency
you read on the installer and might be you get
another error, which might not be the same
as the previous one.
Now again, you go back to the same cycle
of troubleshooting it and rerunning the installer.
Now, still remember this type
of workflow you typically see specifically when
you used to install the GTA game.
Now, it always used to say
that there are certain DLLs which are missing
certain dependencies which are missing, and you had to go
through this software workflow at least a time
or two to make sure that you had all the dependencies
and all the requirements to install the game.
Now, this workflow that we were discussing earlier
this is the end user workflow.
Now, there is also workflow related to the development.
Now, let's say that there is a programmer who works very
hard at developing a software.
So he has developed this specific software.
Now, depending upon the way in which
he has created the software, it might or it might not,
work out of the box in the operating system.
So, let's say that he has created a software through
Visual Studio. So it might work directly in Windows,
it will not work in Linux, it will not work in Mac.
And this is a pain for the programmer,
because if he wants that software to work in Linux,
if he wants to make it work in Mac, it is really a pain.
He might use Java, but if let's say he does not
really want to use Java out of the box
it really becomes difficult for the developer as well.
So what he can do, he can create this software
He can put it in a Docker container.
Now he can deploy the Docker container in Windows,
He can deploy it in Linux, he can deploy it in Mac,
and he can be 100 percent sure that other
Docker container software that he has tested
in his local environment will work perfectly in Windows,
it will work perfectly in Linux, and it will work perfectly
in Mac and all the operating systems
which the Docker supports.
So, this really becomes much more easy
for the developer to push his software
to wide variety of operating system
and also all the dependencies which are required
by this specific software.
Because during the second slide that we are discussing
that a software installation typically fails due
to dependency issues, et cetera, he can put all
of these dependencies within the Docker container itself.
So, once he deploys the Docker container
to any operating system, it will work out of the box
and the end user does not really have to do anything other
than running this specific Docker container.
So, with this let's understand what
Docker is in definitive terms.
So Docker is basically an open platform.
Now, once we build a Docker container,
we can run it anywhere.
We can run it in Windows, we can run it in Linux,
we can run it in Mac, whether it is a laptop
it is in a data center, or it is in the Cloud.
Now, it follows a build once, run anywhere approach.
So that basically means that once the software
developer has built his own Docker container
he can run it anywhere.
He can run it in Windows, he can run it in Linux,
he can run it in Mac as well in a perfectly
working condition depending upon the task
that he has performed, while he has created a Docker
container.
So, this is the theoretical perspective.
Let me quickly give you a demo, so that we have a good
understanding about this.
So for our demo purposes
we'll be taking the example of NGINX.
Its now NGINX is a very popular web server in the market.
Now, we'll consider NGINX to be this software,
which has been written by an organization.
Now, if you look into the technical specification of NGINX
under the supported distribution, it does support
Amazon Linux. Then you have CentOS, Debian, FreeBSD.
Then you have the Red Hat, Linux, SUSE, Ubuntu, et cetera.
But it does not really support Windows.
And this is the reason why I intentionally
I have chosen this specific web server for our demo purpose.
Now, what we need to ensure is that
if we try to install this in Windows,
it will not really work, because you'll
not have a .exe file out of the box.
So, what you need to do is you can put this entire NGINX
within a Docker container.
And once you have done that,
you can deploy the Docker container in Windows, Linux,
as well as, Mac.
Now, again, Mac is not supported here, but
if it is under the Docker container, it will work
irrespective of whether NGINX
is supported out of the box or not.
Now, the first thing that we'll typically need to verify
whether the NGINX Docker container is available or not.
So this is the Docker hub website, and here
you see there is an NGINX container which is available
and this is the official image.
So, let me click over here.
And if we go a bit down
you'll see this is the NGINX official image.
And basically here is the command to
pull the NGINX image,
And if you go a bit down
you will see various commands which are available
in which you can run the specific image.
So, generally there are two steps which are involved
generally when you use a Docker. The first step
is basically this specific Docker container image.
It would be in a specific website.
Now Docker hub is one such website,
so you have to pull this image
or, I would say, you have to download this image
within your operating system where you want to
start the container from it.
Now, for that, you have the command of
Docker pull NGINX.
Now, once the image is downloaded
you can go ahead and start the container from it.
So, let's look into how exactly this would work.
Now, let me copy this up.
And from my Windows CLA? I'll paste the docker
pull NGINX command.
So, this command will go ahead
and download the NGINX image
from the Docker hub repository.
Now, do remember, that before this command works
you need to make sure that you have
the Docker daemon installed
within your operating system.
Now, Docker supports Windows, Linux, as well as, Mac.
And basically, as you se here, I have the Docker daemon
which is running, and this is the reason why
my Docker command works perfectly.
So, let's quickly wait for a moment for our image to
get downloaded.
All right, so our NGINX image has been successfully
downloaded. Now the next thing that you need to
do is you have to start the container from that image.
So for that, I'll write a simple command of Docker run.
I'll specify a board mapping,
let's say 8080:80 of the container.
Let me specify the container image, which is NGINX.
So, it has given us the long output O here,
but if we quickly do a Docker ps,
then you should see that there
is an NGINX container, which has started up.
Now, in order to verify I am in my incognito mode,
and I'll put 127001:8080.
And now you see, it basically is showing me the
index.Html page of NGINX.
So, that means my NGINX is perfectly working
in the Docker container,
and I'm able to access that within my Windows browser.
So, this is the great advantage of the Docker containers.
You don't really need to worry whether it is supported
or whether application is supported in Windows or not; or
whether application is supported in Linux or not.
As long as you can put it under the Docker container
you will be able to run it in Windows, Linux, as well
as, Mac or in fact, any operating system.
Where the official Docker daemon is supported.
So with this, I hope you understood
at the high level overview on what a Docker is all about.
Now, one great thing, in fact, two advantages we just saw.
One was NGINX was not supported in Windows
but through the Docker container it is perfectly working.
And second is we did not really have to worry
about installation of NGINX and taking care
of all of the dependencies, et cetera.
All we did was we pulled this specific Docker container
of NGINX, and that container itself had
all the required dependency to run the NGINX web server.
And once we pulled it
we went ahead and started the Docker container.
And that's about it.
And this is the reason why Docker
as a technology has become extremely popular.
And typically if you look into the roles of DevOps or SREs
having a good understanding of Docker is a mandatory thing
which lot of organizations are looking for.
And even as a software developer
primarily because of such advantages that it offers
lots of organizations are also managing that.
The software developers should also have
at least basic knowledge about the Docker containers.
So this is the high level overview
about the introduction to Dockers.
I hope this video has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Installation Methods for Docker ---

-: Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video,
we'll be discussing about the installation methods
for Docker.
Now, one of the great things about Docker
is that it is supported in wide variety
of operating systems,
so it is supported in Windows,
it is supported in macOS,
and it works perfectly well in Linux as well.
Now, whenever you go ahead and install any application,
in this course, we are focusing on Splunk.
It becomes much more simpler
to install a Splunk-based Docker container
in all of these three operating systems.
So let's quickly look into it.
Now, currently I am in the website of Docker,
and we are exploring the product of Docker Desktop.
So Docker Desktop is like a GUI environment for Docker.
So if you'll go a bit down here,
for downloading Docker Desktop,
you see it works perfectly well.
So you can download the EXE for Windows
and it is also supported
for the macOS-based operating system.
So this product is great
because once you run the Docker container,
it gives you a great GUI associated with it.
Now, in fact, I have Docker Desktop that is up and running,
and currently you see,
it basically shows you that I have two Docker containers
of Splunk that are running.
It also shows you the images of Docker
that I have within my laptop.
So I have one Splunk image of size 1.93 GB.
It shows you the volumes,
it shows you the dev environments,
and there are a lot of settings
that you can tinker around with.
Now, to begin with,
you can decide to install the Docker Desktop
directly within your laptop for the practicals.
However, the preferred choice for Docker installation
for this course
would be a Linux system.
Now, again, the question that comes
is since the Docker works perfectly well for Windows, macOS,
then why are we choosing Linux here?
Let's look into it.
Now, one of the challenges with Docker that we have observed
is that every user has a different set of operating system
with a specific set of updates,
and on top of that,
many users also make use of a corporate laptop
and many user has their own personal laptop
but they have various third-party firewalls
or security products on their workstations installed,
and due to which,
there can be issue related to either Docker
or either a specific Splunk container not working
as expected through Docker.
So as an instructor,
it becomes a little difficult for us to troubleshoot
primarily because we are dealing
with individual laptop configuration.
In case if everyone is using Linux
and they have installed Docker on Linux,
and let's say you are running into some specific issues
when you're trying to customize an environment,
then within the question,
if you can post the exact configuration,
then it becomes easy for us to troubleshoot
in a like-minded environment
because I can quickly launch a Linux server
and test things out.
Great, so this is one of the primary reasons
why we are using Linux.
So, to begin with our Docker installation process,
what we'll need, we'll need a Linux server,
and the operating system of our choice would be a Ubuntu OS.
So once we have the server up and running,
what we can do,
we can go ahead and install Docker,
and once the Docker is installed,
we can go ahead and launch a Splunk-based Docker container.
Now for today's demo,
I already have Splunk containers running
in my Docker Desktop locally in my Windows,
so you'll see,
and this is one of the benefits of Docker,
like you can run multiple instances of Splunk
if you would like to.
So I have two Docker containers of Splunk,
one is named as Splunk
and second is name as Splunk2,
and the same can be verified here.
If I'll quickly do a docker ps here,
you'll see I have Splunk2 over here
and I have Splunk over here.
Now, one of them is running on the port of 8000
and the second Docker container of Splunk
is running on port of 9000,
and these are two different individual Splunk containers.
So let's quickly explore that.
So first, let's go ahead and open up the port 8000 locally,
and here you see I have Splunk Enterprise up and running.
And within the second tab,
let's open up the local host with the port of 9000,
and you see we have Splunk container up and running.
So two different set of Splunk containers,
and it becomes much more easier
if you're running Docker and specifically,
let's say you are testing out the high availability
or clustering setup,
it becomes easier.
You can just launch one big server,
and you can launch multiple instances of Splunk container
and look into how the integration would work.
In fact, in our later sections,
we will be using the Docker-based approach,
where a single server will have multiple Splunk containers,
and then we look into the integration process.
So this is the basic idea.
So creating a new server in DigitalOcean
is pretty straightforward.
So once you log in to DigitalOcean,
you can quickly go ahead and create a new droplet here,
and the choice of operating system is Ubuntu,
and within the CPU options,
you can select either $5 per month or $10 per month.
Anyways, if you have just signed up for DigitalOcean
and if you have a credit,
it does not really matter much.
Let's keep simple.
Let's use a $5 per month here.
In the data center region,
you can just select the right data center
which is nearest to you.
Let me select Bangalore.
And for the authentication,
you can use the appropriate key that you have configured.
Now, if you want to know on how we can create a new key,
we have already discussed it in the previous videos
where we are creating the infrastructure for Splunk.
Alright, so once we have the key,
you can just name the server,
let's just call it as SplunkDocker,
or you can name it anything that you would like,
and you can quickly create a droplet.
So now we have one more server
called as SplunkDocker that is available,
so you can copy the public IP
and you can quickly log in to the server
with the username of root.
First thing, it will ask you for a fingerprint.
I'll specify yes,
and now you see we are connected to this server.
Now at this stage, if I quickly run docker,
it basically states docker command not found,
so you'll need to explicitly install Docker.
And the overall process of installation of Docker
is something that we'll be looking in the next video
and at the later stage,
then we'll go ahead and install Splunk container
through Docker.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Installing Docker in Linux ---

Presenter: Here everyone and welcome back.
So now that we have our first server up
and running using Linux,
the next step is to go ahead and install the Docker.
So let's look into these steps that are involved here.
Now, within the documentation associated
with installation of Docker Engine,
it basically shows you the platforms
that are officially supported.
We were discussing about Docker Desktop,
which is supported for both Mac as well as Windows.
Apart from that, Docker works perfectly well in,
CentOS, Debian, and Fedora, Ubuntu as well.
So what we'll be doing is,
we'll be exploring the Ubuntu based installation step.
So let's go ahead and explore the Ubuntu based steps here.
Let's go a bit down,
and within here, one of the first step
that you need to do, is you have to run the app, get update.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So I'll copy this up.
So currently I'm connected to the server
with the route user.
Let's go ahead and run the app update.
That's great.
The next step is to install certain prerequisite packages,
so I'll copy this up.
Let's clear the screen
and let's paste it here.
I'll press a Y for the confirmation here.
Perfect.
The next step is where you need to go ahead
and add the official GPG key.
So let's go ahead and copy this up.
Let's clear the screen.
I'll paste it here,
and our key is installed.
Once your key is installed,
in the third primary step, you can go ahead
and configure the appropriate repository.
So let's go ahead and copy this command.
I'll paste it.
And now once you have these prerequisite steps done,
now you can go ahead and start to install the Docker Engine.
So installation process is very straightforward.
You have app get update,
and then you have app get installed, Docker CE,
and few other CLI packets.
So let's do an app get update here.
And now we'll go ahead
and install the Docker community edition related packages.
I'll press Y for confirmation.
Perfect.
So our Docker Engine is installed.
Now if you'll quickly do a system CTL status Docker,
you should see that Docker is up and running.
And if you'll run Docker info,
so here you'll see various details
related to your virtual machine,
and if you'll go up better,
it also shows you various details
related to the Docker plugins
and various other information here.
Great.
So as we have seen, the installation of Docker on Linux
is a very straightforward process.
What I'll be doing is, I'll be sharing
the commands that we have used after this lecture,
so you can also go ahead and try this out.
In case if you're going ahead
with the Docker Desktop based installation to begin with,
in the upcoming video,
we'll also look into how this would work.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Document - Linux Installation Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Installing Docker Desktop ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video, we look
into how we can install the Docker Desktop.
Now for today's video
we'll be using the Windows version of Docker Desktop.
However, even for MacOS,
the overall installation process is very similar.
So the first thing that you'll do is you'll go ahead
and download the Docker Desktop.
So here you'll see that there are multiple versions
of Docker Desktops that are available.
You can go ahead and choose the appropriate version
for your operating system.
Now, for this case
I'll be using the download for Windows button.
So what it'll do, it will go ahead
and download the Docker Desktop with the extension of exe.
Now do note that the overall size
of Docker Desktop is a little big
so it's somewhere around 525 mb.
Now, once your binary is installed
all you'll have to do is you'll have to double click
on it for the installation to continue.
So let's double click here.
Great, so it took around five minutes
and our Docker Desktop installation is completed.
So let's do a close over here.
(mouse clicks)
And let's open another Docker Desktop.
(mouse clicks)
Now in Windows, if you'll go here, you'll see
that the Docker Desktop is currently in this starting state.
Do note that it is a little resource heavy application
so it can take a minute for it to start.
So I'll double click here,
(mouse clicks)
and it'll show you the gui.
So the Docker engine is currently in the starting state.
All right, so once your Docker engine is up
and running under the containers, it will basically show you
that there are no containers that are running.
This is completely fine
because we are not really launch the container here.
Now here you can also see various things
like the Docker images, if you're creating Docker volumes.
So all these things you'll be able to see from the gui.
Along with this you can also go ahead and sign in,
and for here you'll basically need the credentials
for hub.docker.com.
Along with this, if you'll quickly go to the settings
over here that are multiple options that are available
which you can go ahead and explore
as well as modify, depending upon your needs.
Now for the Windows users,
one important part to remember here is that it basically
currently you see it is based on the wsl2 based engine.
Now in Windows,
there are multiple options to start a Docker Desktop.
One is the wsl2
and you can also make use of a hyper-v based backend.
Sometimes for some users, you'll see
that things are not really working well with wsl2.
In such cases, you need to make sure
that the hyper-v is enabled.
Now let me quickly show you on how you can do that.
So if you'll open up the turn Windows features on or off
you're currently, you see that the hyper-v is not enabled.
So if you want to associate the Docker Desktop with hyper-v
you'll first need to enable the hyper-v
from your Windows features.
And then you can go ahead
and deselect the 'use wsl2' based engine.
So this is specifically for the Windows users.
So let's go ahead and do a cancel.
So once your Docker Desktop is up and running
(mouse clicks)
you can open up the command prompt here from Windows.
Make sure you open a new command prompt
and from here you can type 'Docker info'.
And within here you'll see
that there are multiple configurations related
to the Docker that you can explore.
However, if this command is working fine
your docker is up and running perfectly well.
That's great. So now that we have the docker up and running
in the upcoming video, we will go ahead and start to
learn the Docker related terminologies and features.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - Docker Desktop ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Deploying Splunk Docker Container ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
So today's video will be interesting,
where we'll be going ahead and launching
our Splunk container in our docker workstation.
So at this stage, once you have the docker up and running,
it can be in your laptop or it can be in a server.
The next step is we can go ahead
and start to launch our Splunk based docker container.
Now you can go ahead
and launch a single container of Splunk.
You can go ahead and also launch
multiple containers of Splunk.
Now within the docker hub website,
where the docker images are generally stored
you also have the official image for Splunk.
So this is the image
that the Splunk team officially releases.
So the overall installation of the docker container
of Splunk is very easy.
All you'll have to do if you'll go a bit down
all you have to do is you have to run this single command
and your Splunk will be up and running.
Now let's quickly try this out.
Now let me first pase it in my notepad,
so that we can see on what exactly is happening here.
So this command basically creates a new docker container
with the name of Splunk.
You can give any name over here
and the container is being created
from the image of splunk/splunk
So if you'll see when in the dockerhub,
you have splunk/splunk.
And the same is being explored here.
And the image it has been using is the latest version.
So whatever is the latest version of Splunk
it is using that.
Now in case if you do not really want
to use the latest image
you can quickly also explore the tags.
And here you'll see that there are multiple versions
of Splunk docker container that are present.
So you have Splunk 8.2, if you'll go a bit down
you also have 8.0 and so on.
So multiple images of Splunk, you'll see there are
more than nine pages that are available.
All right, so this is the second important part to note.
The third important part to note is the port over here
So you have 8000:8000.
The first 8000 is basically the port
that you'll be accessing in your laptop.
So let's say this Splunk container is running
in your laptop.
How will you access the Splunk container?
So this is the port through which
you'll be accessing the Splunk container.
And the second port 8000 is for this Splunk process
that is running inside the container.
So Splunk by default runs on the port 8000.
So the second port is for the container.
And the third important part is the Splunk password.
So this will be the password for your installation.
If you are deploying it on the server,
make sure that you have a strong password.
Let me go ahead and just give a random password here.
Now, once then, let's go ahead and copy this command.
And within the workstation where you have docker available
you can go ahead and paste the contents here.
Now the first thing that it'll do is it'll go ahead
and download the Splunk image within your workstation.
And once the image is available
then from the image it'll launch the container.
Now do note that the size of image is little big
so it might take a little time
when you run it for the first time.
Perfect, so our command has run successfully.
So now if we do a docker ps
which basically shows you the list of containers.
You'll see we have one container that is up and running.
So currently the health is in the starting state.
The name of the container is Splunk.
So in case we want to see what exactly is happening
you can say docker logs
followed by the name of container, which is Splunk.
So it basically shows you the exact steps
that are being initialized here.
Now, after a minute or two
the Splunk should be up and running.
And in order to access it
you'll need to get the public IP of your server.
So whatever is the public IP of your server
you can go ahead and copy this up.
And now for the port of 8000,
you can see if the Splunk shows up.
So at this stage it is showing that
the site cannot be reached.
That is fine.
The Splunk is still in the initialization state.
So let's see what is happening.
So if we'll do a docker logs Splunk.
So at this state it is waiting for the
Splunk the management port.
That is fine.
And now from the browser
you see our Splunk container is up and running.
So in order to log in it
the username would be admin
and the password, you can just copy
whatever password you had set.
Let's paste it and you can do a sign in.
So let's do a, Got it.
And perfect.
Now you see our Splunk is up and running here.
Now similar to the diagram that we were exploring
once you have the docker workstation,
you can go ahead and launch
multiple instances of Splunk
and things will work perfectly well.
The only thing that you need to take care is
the port associated with Splunk.
So for example, let's copy the same command,
let me paste it here.
This time, if we want to launch
a second container of Splunk,
first thing, make sure that you give a different name.
Let's call it a Splunk2.
And the second thing, make sure you give a different port.
So now if you're given 9000,
if you want to access this Splunk from browser,
you'll have to specify the public IP followed by port 9000.
Let's also try this out.
I'll copy this command and let's paste it
within this server.
All right, so if I'll do a docker ps now,
you should see we have two Splunk containers.
The second Splunk container with the name of Splunk2,
the health is starting,
so it is still in the initialization state.
If you try to load it from the browser, it will not work.
However, the first container that we had launched
now the status is healthy so we can access it.
We have already checked that.
Great, so now that we have a Splunk container
based on docker up and running,
let us explore some of the important docker commands
that will be used quite often.
The first one is docker ps,
which basically shows you the list of
all the running containers.
You also have docker ps -a
which shows you all the containers.
It can be running containers,
it can also be stopped containers.
If you want to stop a specific container
you can run docker stop
followed by the name of the container.
To start a container, docker start
the name of the container.
And if you want to remove the container
you can say docker remove, followed by the container name.
However, before you do that
make sure that you first stop the container.
So generally, let's say you are testing Splunk
you had done some mistake
and your Splunk is really messed up.
So if you want a brand new instance of Splunk
just stop the previous container, remove it
and launch a new Splunk container
and you'll have a new Splunk instance right away.
So let's explore that.
I'll clear the screen.
The first command that we were discussing is docker ps.
As we already know,
it will show you the list of all the running containers.
So currently there are two running containers here.
The second command was docker ps -a
which will show you all the containers
whether they're running or even in the stopped state.
So at this stage, if I do a docker ps -a
it'll show you only two containers,
primarily because we only have two containers up and running
there are no containers in a stop state.
However, this time you'll see that
our second container named Splunk2,
the state is healthy, so let's verify
if you're able to access it through port 9000.
So let's copy the IP
and this time let's change the port from 8000 to 9000.
And let's verify if you're able to see the Splunk screen.
So ideally this should give you a login screen
and as expected you have a login screen
you can go ahead and sign in.
So at this stage
your server has two different Splunk containers
that are up and running.
That's great.
So the next important command is docker stop.
So let's say you want to stop a specific container.
Let's explore that.
So you can say docker stop
followed by the name of container.
Let's say we want to stop the container 2,
which is Splunk2.
So I'll specify with the name of the container.
Great, so our container is stopped.
So if you do a docker ps now,
only one container will be shown.
However, if you do a docker ps -a
it should show you both the containers,
first container, it's in the healthy state.
And the second container that we had stopped,
it is showing us exited.
Now if you want to start back the second container
you can say docker start, followed by Splunk2.
All right, so now if you do a docker ps yet again
you'll see the health is starting for the second container.
And the last important comment is docker rm.
So in case if you want to remove a container
you can use the rm option.
So let's try it out.
So let's say that we do not really need
a second container for now.
So first thing, just go ahead and stop the container first.
So I'll say docker stop Splunk2.
Our Splunk2 container is stopped
and now I'll say docker rm Splunk2.
All right, so now our Splunk2 container is removed.
So if you'll do a docker ps -a
you should only see one container that is running.
That's great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics
on how you can launch a Splunk container
and also the basics of docker command.
Now all the command that we had used
were associated with the Linux system.
Now the same commands should work
for Windows or MacOS as well.
Let me quickly show you.
So let's copy the first command that was used
to create a Splunk container.
Now currently in my windows.
I already have a docker desktop up and running.
So currently you see it states no container running.
So within my Windows laptop
let's go ahead and paste the command here.
And as expected, it should create a new container.
So if you'll do a docker ps,
similar to what we were seeing within the Linux system
initially the health is within the starting state
and our Splunk container has been created.
Now you can do a docker logs,
followed by the name of the container, which is Splunk.
And currently it is showing you all the configuration
that it is doing.
Now in case if you're using docker desktop in Windows
or MacOS under the containers and apps,
you should also see a Splunk container.
And if you'll just click on the container,
by default it'll show you the logs of the containers.
So at this stage you see it is showing you
all the updated logs related to what exactly is happening
in the initialization state.
So at this state
it is showing that the Ansible playbook is complete.
So our Splunk should be up.
So in order to access it
you can just specify local hosts followed by 8000 port.
Let's press enter and you should see the sign in screen.
Let's try to log in.
I'll say admin, let me copy the password
and I'll click on sign in.
And great, you should see the login screen
and now you can start to explore Splunk.
That's great.
So I hope with this you understood the basics
of launching Splunk in docker container.
We explored both the approaches
and we had looked into how the same command
works perfectly well considering that you have a
docker available in Linux as well as Windows.
And in case you have Mac
the same command should also work there.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Document - Deploying Splunk Container Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Onboarding Data into Splunk ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss on how we can onboard the data to Splunk.
Now before we start to build amazing dashboards in Splunk, create lot of alerts, correlate data and
do lot of amazing things.
What is the first base prerequisite that is required?
And that is to add some data on Splunk.
So only after you have added the data to Splunk can you build alerts.
Can you build dashboards, can you correlate between data and so on.
So in today's video, we are going to discuss at an overview on what are the ways in which you can ingest
the data to Splunk.
And in the subsequent videos, we'll be exploring all of the ways in detail practically.
Now, one thing to note is that there are multiple ways in which you can add the data to Splunk.
One of the common ways that you will see in larger organizations is where you have Splunk Agent that
is installed on all of the servers.
It can be Linux servers, it can be windows servers, and so on.
And the Splunk agent pushes all of the logs to Splunk server.
The second way is you can also manually upload the log files to the Splunk instance.
This is possible, and third way is that Splunk can connect to third party platforms like AWS to fetch
the data.
Let's quickly look into all of the three ways through architectural perspective.
So the approach number one is where you have many servers like Linux servers on Linux server you install
Splunk agent, Splunk agent runs on the server, and whatever logs that are generated on the server.
These logs are pushed to the Splunk instance.
This is one of the very common ways.
Second way is that in case if you have some log files in your local computer, you can manually upload
the log files to Splunk instance for analysis and the approach number three.
Again, this is very common in organization is where Splunk can initiate the connections to third party
platforms like cloud provider.
It will pull the logs and it will perform the analysis on top of it.
Now what happens is let's say you have an AWS account, you will not be able to install the agent directly
on the AWS account, and this is the reason why you generally add the AWS account credentials inside
the Splunk and Splunk will regularly connect to your AWS account, fetch the latest data in events,
and then you can perform the necessary level of visualization and create alerts.
Now, within my Splunk Enterprise that we use in production environment.
Now again note this is a demo video.
Aim is to understand the concept.
So within here if I quickly go to the search and reporting app, and if you look into the data summary
for the production server, we have around 73,000 events that you are able to see.
So if I open this, you see there are so many events that are appearing over here.
Now, how are these events from the production server appearing as part of Splunk instance?
Answer is the approach number one, where you have Splunk Agent that is installed on the server and
this agent is pushing the logs to Splunk server.
Let me also quickly show you a demo.
Now let's do one thing.
There are a lot of logs that are being pushed.
We are interested in var log secure.
So generally var log secure.
What happens is when someone logs in to the SSH server, it can be a successful login.
Or if someone is trying to attempt to log in it can be a failed login.
All of the logs related to that will be appearing in this log file.
So what we are going to do let's go ahead and make it real time.
All right.
And from my local terminal let me connect to the production server.
Once again we'll do a live login over here.
So we are connected.
Now you see immediately in the Splunk server we got the logs.
So if you see it has accepted the public key and the session has been opened by root.
So now if I do a Ctrl D I log out.
Then you see again we got the error disconnected from user root session closed for user root.
So when agent is installed on the servers, some users might assume that it will take 5 to 10 minutes
for the logs of the server to be pushed to Splunk.
Answer is no.
It is very instantaneous.
We just had a demo on how fast it is.
So this again is one of the common approaches.
Second approach that we were discussing is the manual upload.
So within here what you can do is you can go ahead and add the data manually.
Let me show you an overview.
So here you see you have the option to upload the data where you can select the file and manually upload
it through the GUI.
And the approach number three as we were discussing, is where you use Splunk to connect to third party
platforms like AWS account to fetch the data.
Great.
So these are the three high level approaches that you have to keep a note of.
Again, as the course progresses.
We will be discussing about each of the approach in great detail, and also some of the considerations
that you have to keep a note when you use any of the approach in the production environment.
So today's video was a high level overview about the possibility on how you can add the data.
With this understood we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Importing Data to Splunk ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing that before we start building an amazing set of dashboards
in Splunk, before we start creating alerts, before we start correlating the data, what is one of
the most important prerequisite?
And the answer is data.
So you need some data in Splunk.
And based on that data you can generate visualization, you can create alerts and so on.
So in Splunk, as we were discussing that there are multiple ways in which you can add the data.
You can push it through Splunk agent, you can retrieve it from third party cloud providers and so on.
Today we are going to take a simple approach, which is the approach number two, where we are going
to manually upload the log files to Splunk instance.
So what we are going to do we have setup log files that are available.
We'll upload it to Splunk.
Then we'll look into how we can search the data, how we can build visualization.
We'll try and understand things in great detail once we are comfortable with searching, correlating,
creating alerts, etc. then at the later part of the course, we will look into how we can install the
Splunk agent in Linux server and push the logs from the Linux server to Splunk.
All right.
Now again, these are not some different logs.
We are going to take some of the common log formats that you will see in Linux, as well as the production
servers that you will be working with, and will discuss about them in detail.
Now for today's practical, we are going to take an example of two log files.
One is the access log, second is secure log.
These are the two common log files that you will see in most of the organization.
And you will be working with that when you work with Splunk.
So first let's go ahead and look into how exactly these log files look like and what are the events
that are part of it.
So I'll quickly open this with Visual Studio Code.
So within our folder as we were discussing we have two logs access log and secure log.
So when you look into the access log in fact let's maximize this.
This is how the access log looks like.
Now, again, these are not some 10 or 20 events.
If you see you have around 13,000 events that are available.
Now each event over here is the separate request that the appropriate web server has received.
So this is a separate event.
This is a separate event.
This is a separate event and so on.
So this is one part.
Second part is the secure dot log.
Secure dot log.
You will get it from the Linux server.
So generally when someone logs into a Linux server through SSH someone tries to log in but it has failed.
So all of those log events you will see in the secure log.
Now what are the access logs?
Access logs generally comes from web servers like Apache and Nginx.
In most of the organizations you will either have Apache or Nginx or maybe both.
And for both of the web servers, you will have the access logs that will be generated.
All right.
So these are the most common logs that you will see in organization.
And this is the reason why we have taken the two commonly used log for the practical examples.
Now currently I am logged in to the Splunk server.
Make sure that you are also connected within your in the search and reporting.
Over here you will see that currently we don't really have any data that is available.
All right, it is empty.
So the first thing as we know we have to upload some data.
So in order to do that we'll go to settings.
We'll click on Add Data and we'll click on Upload files from computer.
Let's click here.
And within here we'll select a file.
And first we are going to upload the access log.
Over here I'll click on open.
It says file successfully uploaded.
This is good.
Let's click on next.
And on the right hand side you see your log events.
And on the left hand side you have the source type.
Now one of the good things about Splunk is that for many log events over here, it automatically detects
the appropriate source type.
So for this access log it has detected that access underscore combined underscore W cookie is the source
type.
And it will use the appropriate field extractions that it has to extract the data into fields.
So this makes your life simple.
Now again note that although this is possible for lot of log events, it is not guarantee that all of
the log files that you will upload will match the source type automatically.
In such case, you can also manually assign a source type.
We'll be discussing about it in just a moment, but we are just looking into the workflow.
Let's click on next within here in the host field let's just call it as nginx.
And we'll review and we'll submit.
So our file has been uploaded successfully.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and add one more data.
We have the Linux Secure logs.
Let's click on upload.
Let's select a file.
Let's add the secure log over here.
Let's do a next.
And for this log file you see the source type it is not able to detect automatically.
So in such case, what you can do is you can search for the source types.
So here for different categories.
So for application category these are the source types available for email.
These are the source types available and so on.
Now we know that these are logs from a Linux server.
So the category can be operating system.
And then you can search for it.
For example each source type has the description.
So if you see there is a source type Linux underscore secure.
What description does it have.
It says format for the var log secure file containing all the security related messages on a Linux machine.
So we know that this is the var log secure file.
So we'll search from here.
You can either go through here or even in the filter.
If you type Linux underscore secure you will be able to see it.
Make sure you select this source type.
Let's do a next within the host field.
Let's just call it as Linux.
I'll do a review and I'll click on submit over here and get both of the log files have been uploaded
successfully.
So now if you go to the search and reporting, if you look into the data summary, you see for the access
log over here, we have somewhere around 13,000 events for the secure log.
Over here we have around 10,000 events that are available now in the video associated with the source
type.
We had discussed that just by assigning the correct source type to your data in Splunk does not guarantee
that all of the fields will be extracted automatically.
So for some of the very common source type like access combined or access combined w cookie, etc.,
there are necessary level of field extractors that are available for some source types like Linux secure,
although the field extractions are not available in detail by default, but at a later stage you can
install the Splunk add on for appropriate extractions.
Let's also look into it since we have both the data ingested.
Now within here, first let's go ahead and search for the sources.
These are the name of the log files that we had uploaded.
And these are the source types.
All right.
This is one thing that needs to be understood.
Let's search for the source type of access underscore combine underscore w cookie.
So within here if I do all time these are the events.
Now if you look into the events over here you see the fields are automatically extracted.
So Splunk is able to extract.
So it is able to understand that this part is basically the client IP.
Then this part which is the Butter Cup games.
This is the referrer similar way.
This is the timestamp, this is the URI path and so on.
And Mozilla you see this entire part from here to here.
Splunk was able to detect that this is nothing but the user agent.
So the necessary level of field extraction was done automatically for the access log.
Now if we look into the secure log.
So secure log header source type if you remember for Linux secure.
If I search for this let's expand this event.
For this you see the fields are not extracted properly.
There are only two things that are extracted.
One is the name of the process sshd.
And second is the PID.
So apart from this highlighted part, nothing else is extracted over here, so it is not able to extract
the username, not able to extract the password and so on.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Again the solution is quite simple, but at this stage it is important for us to understand it.
So that's the high level overview on how you can onboard the data through manual upload.
In the upcoming videos, we'll be discussing about the extractions and add ons in great detail.
But before that, make sure that you have both of these files uploaded.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Field Extraction - Linux Secure Logs ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss on how we can achieve a proper level of field extraction
specifically for the Linux Secure logs.
Now, at this stage in the earlier video, you remember that we had uploaded two primary log files.
One is the access log and second is the secure log.
The access log was automatically extracted properly.
However, for the secure log, although we had assigned the correct source type of Linux secure, the
field extractions were not really happening properly.
So today's video is going to discuss on how we can achieve this.
Now, one of the easiest way for the field extraction to happen is to install the necessary add on that
has the field extractors, which is basically the necessary level of regular expressions associated
with the specific source type.
So here you have to figure out which add on might have the necessary level of field extractions in place.
For Linux level of logs.
It is very simple.
You have a Linux add on that is available.
So once you install the Splunk add on for Linux automatically, you will see that all of the logs like
var log secure and other logs that might be available for Linux.
All of these logs will have the necessary extraction that will happen automatically.
So that is the basic.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Now in Google, when you type Splunk add on for Linux, you will get the appropriate link to Splunk
website.
So when you open this, this is how it looks like Splunk add on for Unix and Linux.
And it is built by Splunk LLC.
So this is the add on that we have to install in Splunk instance.
So going back to Splunk we were already discussing at this stage you see the field extraction is not
happening for the secure log.
So let's go ahead and look into how we can install the appropriate add on.
So within here you see you have option for find more apps.
So if I quickly open this over here there will be lot of apps that are available.
We are more interested in add ons for Linux.
So this is the add on Splunk add on for Unix and Linux.
Author is Splunk LLC.
This is what we are targeting.
Let's click on install and within.
Here you have to specify the username and password.
Now this username and password is not of this Splunk instance.
It is the username and password of Splunk account that we had created in the earlier video.
So using that Splunk account you can install it.
So let me go ahead and add the username and password.
So the username is KB labs.
Let's add the password and let's click on agree and install.
And great our Splunk add on has been installed successfully.
Let's click on done.
Now let's go back to our Splunk instance.
Over here on the left hand side you will see Splunk add on for Unix and Linux.
Just click here.
And it is stating that this has not been fully configured.
You can click on continue to App Setup page and all you have to do you can either enable it.
But we are not doing as of now.
We'll keep it very simple.
We'll disable everything that was there by default and we'll click on save.
And that's the only thing that you'll have to do once the Splunk add on for Unix and Linux is setup
now, automatically you will see that the field extractions will happen.
Sometimes it can take a minute or two, after which it will be solved.
So let's go back to search and reporting.
And we are more interested in the secure log.
If you see in secure log you can either open this, you can open Linux or you can open source type or
you can manually type over here whichever way you prefer.
So again whatever you select over here, automatically it will be added over here.
All right.
So just select all time for reference.
Let's open this.
And now you see all of the important fields have been extracted perfectly well.
So the source IP is extracted.
The source port is extracted.
The reason of invalid user because we had the invalid user this is extracted.
Then you have the port of 3351, the name of the user is extracted and so on.
So this is something that we require before we start to build great set of dashboards, create alerts
and so on.
So that's the overview.
Make sure that all of the data that we have ingested in Splunk, the field extractions are done properly.
And that will help in the upcoming videos.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Download - Sample Tutorial Logs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Basics of Search ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now that we have uploaded the data to Splunk and also the field level extractions are happening automatically,
now we can proceed with the next and the interesting topic of searching the data in Splunk.
So we'll discuss on how we can search for a specific data in Splunk.
And at a later stage, we'll see on how we can use that to perform necessary level of visualization.
Now, in order to search for your data in Splunk, you make use of Splunk Processing Language, also
referred to as SPL.
At an overview, SPL allows us to search, analyze, as well as visualize the data within the Splunk
platform.
Now the SPL is very easy.
It is not some complicated thing that you have to learn.
If you are comfortable with, say, Linux commands or maybe basic of SQL, then understanding the SPL
will become very easy for you.
All right.
So at an overview, just remember that you will be able to search based on the SPL queries that you
create and based on that the necessary level of data will be provided to you.
This is the basics.
Now let's discuss about one of the simplest way to find a specific data.
In all of the events, you just add the data within the search over here, and all of the necessary
events where this value is present will be made available.
For example, here you are searching for 200.
So in all of the events in Splunk, wherever the 200 is present, all of the events will be made available
to you.
This is the simplistic form.
Now, one of the very important part whenever you search for data is the time range.
So for example, in larger organization where logs are present in Splunk, these logs can be from last
three years or last five years.
So when you are searching for a specific data, are you looking from past five years?
Most probably the answer would be no.
You might be looking for maybe past one day or past seven days.
For example, let's say there is some error that is coming and you want to search for that error within
Splunk.
So will you search for that error from past five years?
Answer is no.
You might be searching from say, past 30 minutes or past one year, or maybe today and so on.
So all of this is an important aspect to optimize your query.
So restricting or filtering your search criteria using time range is one of the most optimized way for
your searches.
So again note that let's say you decide that I want all time.
I do not really want one day.
Two day all time will definitely work.
But if Splunk is going to retrieve the log events from five years or ten years, it is going to take
time.
It is going to take a lot of CPU and Ram.
So unless and until you do not really require it, it is better to set the appropriate time range based
on the events that you are searching for.
All right.
This is one of the very important factors.
Before we proceed further, let's go ahead and try it out practically post which will be discussing
about few other areas.
Now going back to our Splunk instance, let's go to the search and reporting app over here.
And we already know that we had uploaded multiple set of data like the Linux Secure log or the access
logs and so on.
So the easiest way to search is you just add the value within the search over here.
So let's say I add 200 over here.
And again within the time range you have 24 hours.
You can select it to 30 days all time, etc. it depends upon your choice.
Let's select all time over here.
Since our data set is low, this is fine.
So when I click on search you see it is returning around 12,000 events over here.
So in all of the event that it returns you see the number 200 is present.
So this is one approach that we were discussing.
One more interesting thing is that it also shows you the timeline, for example 113 events on July 20th
or if you progress further 86 events on July 21st, and so on.
So this also helps in wide range of scenarios.
One more thing that it shows you is that these events are coming from multiple set of source types.
So 99% of events are coming from access logs, 0.9% of events are coming from Linux secure.
So this information is also very useful.
Now the next important area is related to filtering to the right source.
So here note that just by entering the value for the field that you are searching for in the search
bar causes the Splunk to scan all of the data, and this in turn can slow down your query and hence
it is necessary to optimize it.
Let us understand it.
So let's say that as a user we are searching for the number of 200.
Now we know that in Splunk we have two logs access logs and secure logs.
So if you just search for 200 over here, Splunk will go ahead and search in all of the log files,
and it will retrieve all of the events over here.
So this is the simplistic part, but are you really looking for this specific term in both of these
log files?
You have to decide.
Sometimes what happens is you are only looking for this term in say, secure log.
But if you just search for 200, it will even search for accesslog.
And sometimes in organization the Accesslog events are huge.
You have millions of events present over here, and this is the reason why, if Splunk is going to search
for millions of events in Accesslog unnecessarily, it will slow down your Splunk instance and it will
consume a lot of CPU and Ram.
So filtering to the right source is very important.
So let's say that you are only searching for 200 from the Linux secure logs.
So in this case what you can do is you can say search for number 200 but from secure dot log.
So in such case it will only search from secure dot log.
It will not search the potential millions of events that you might have in access logs, and this is
a much more optimized query.
Let's also look into it.
So within our Splunk instance, we had searched for the term 200.
And it is returning so many events over here.
But as we were discussing that we are only interested in this term but from the Linux secure logs.
So there are multiple ways to do that.
One is you can specify secure log over here.
So you can say source as secure log.
You can search it.
And now you see you are only having 108 events.
So not only this query will be faster, but your splunk will also not slow down.
And it is not necessary that you can only specify source as secure dot log.
In fact, let's go back.
You can also specify because all of the logs that are in secure dot log has a source type of Linux underscore
secure.
So you can also search by the source type of Linux underscore secure.
Let's search it.
And now again you see you have 108 events.
So this is a much more optimized query.
In production environments you should always run the optimized queries.
Now the next important area that we should be aware of is related to the Boolean expressions.
So the Splunk processing language which is SPL, it supports the Boolean operators like and or as well
as not.
And this will allow you to filter to the right set of events that are available.
For example, let's say that you want to search for all of the failed login attempts for the user root.
So in such case you can make use of the and operator.
So and operator will look for a event where both the term on the left and term on the right are present.
Second is search for failed logins for all users except root.
So in such case you can look for the term of failed and using the Not operator, it will look for all
the events that have failed, but the user of root is not present in them, then you can search for
failed logins for the user, admin or root.
So you can say failed admin or root.
So let's try it out.
Practically this will give us better clarity.
Now what you can do is for the events that are part of the Linux secure source type, you have various
field events as you can see over here.
So what you can do you can search for field from here.
But we know that what this will do, this will go ahead and search in both the access logs as well as
the secure logs.
So this is something that we do not want.
So we'll just add the source type of Linux secure so that it will only search for the secure logs.
So now we'll search for the term of field.
Let's press enter.
And now you see there are around 8000 events where you have the term field that is available.
So here your field password for invalid user app server failed password for invalid user test user.
So there are multiple user that someone is trying to login and the authentication has failed.
So all of these events are present.
Now let's consider the first use case where you want to search for all the failed login attempts, but
for a specific user of route.
So generally you will see that within here the user is being shown as app server.
So now what you can do.
You are searching for the term failed as well as the term route in a event.
So only the event where both failed is present and route is present.
Those events will be populated.
Let's click on search.
And now you see we have narrowed down the events from 8000 to 346.
So in all of the events you will see you have a failed route.
Failed route, failed route.
So this is one part, this is the importance of and and will make sure that both this term and this
term will be available in the log event that will be shown to you.
Second is search for failed logins for all users except route.
So here you can make use of the not.
So instead of and you can just specify not so all the events where you have a field but where root user
is not involved.
Those events will be provided to you.
So here you see failed password for invalid user app server, MongoDB desktop and so on.
So nowhere you will see root user in the events.
Third use case is search failed logins for user admin or root.
So now you are looking for failed events but from two users one user is admin.
So if I just search for admin you have around 212 events.
And if you search for root you have 346 events.
So now you're looking for all of the events where the user is either admin or root.
So you can add the query here you can search.
So now you see you have around 558 events that are available.
So either event will have the term field with the user of admin or field with the user of root.
Now, one more interesting part.
You cannot use a and over here in fact you can use it.
But this will not really show any events.
Why it will not show any events because any event will either have only one user.
It can either have root user or it can either have admin user or maybe any other user.
A single event will not have failed password from multiple set of users, because at a time only a single
user can log in as part of the session.
So this is the reason why and will not really work.
Over here you can specify something like or.
This is much more better.
Now before we conclude, one important point to note of Boolean operators is that the and operator is
always implied between terms.
For example, failed root is same as failed and root.
So unless you want to include it for clarity reason, you should not need to specify the term and in
the operator.
Let's take an example.
So we were discussing in the earlier query where we had added field and route.
So how many events were there?
346 events were there.
So it will search for event where both the term field and route are present.
Now the point states that you don't have to necessarily use an.
And even if you don't use an and it will use an implicit.
And so the and operator is always implied between terms.
So this is the first term.
This is the second term.
If you search like this again you have 346 events.
And if you search like this again you have 346 events.
So unless you want to include the and operator for clarity, reason, even if you skip it, it will
work perfectly well.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about the basic of search.
Again, we will be discussing about this in great detail in the upcoming set of videos.
But today we covered it at a high level overview so that we can get started.
So that's an overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Basic Splunk SPL Commands ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the SPL commands.
Now at this stage, we already know that you can search in Splunk using a specific text string.
And this is you can consider one of the simplest form of SPL query.
So it will go ahead and show you all the events where this specific text string is present.
Now, although it works.
But note that the true power of SPL lies in the extensive set of commands functions as well as clauses,
and using that, it allows you to transform, analyze, and visualize the data.
Now, when you start working in Splunk, in the production environment, the texting, although this
might be useful, but more useful than that would be various set of Splunk commands and functions that
are available.
In today's video.
We are going to discuss about some of the important set of Splunk commands post, which throughout the
course we'll be discussing about few more as the course progresses.
Now at an overview, note that when we discuss about SPL commands, it tells Splunk what to do with
the data that is retrieved from the index?
And there are a wide variety of categories of commands like there are filtering set of commands you
have, transforming commands, you have field manipulation commands, and so on.
Now when you look into Splunk documentation related to command quick reference, you have lot of commands
that are available over here.
And the associated description.
Each command has its own set of use case.
Now if you see there are so many commands that are available, many of the commands among this we will
be discussing throughout the course, as they are quite useful for the production environments.
However, just keep a note that there are multiple set of commands based on the use case that you might
see.
You might have to use one of them.
Now, before we start with the commands, it is important for us to understand about the pipe structure.
This is something that we use quite extensively in Linux.
At an overview using the pipe, it allows you to connect the output of one command directly to the input
of another command.
For example, you have LLS hyphen L, you are able to see the list of files.
Now, if you run this command ls l you have a pipe grep pdf.
So now what will happen is the output of ls l which is.
This will be the input of grep command.
And then from grep you can search for a specific set of data.
So this pipe structure is useful.
Now in fact let me also quickly show you this.
So there is no confusion before we start with the commands.
So currently I have a file called as test dot txt.
Now if I do a cat on test dot txt, you see there are multiple set of lines that are available.
Now what you can do is you can go ahead and pipe it to another command say grep and you can search for
a specific string like second.
And it will only give you the second line.
Now how this is working the output of test dot txt.
What was the output of test dot txt.
Let's verify it was this specific one.
So this output acts as an input to this command which is the grep command.
And in grep we are searching for second and it matches this.
And this is the reason why only second line over here is shown as the output over here.
So this pipe is something that you will also use in Splunk.
So let's quickly revise about the pipe structure in Splunk.
So similar to Linux, the pipe character tells Splunk software to use the output or result of one of
the command to the left of the pipe.
So on the left of the pipe you have source is equal to access dot log, so this will act as an input
for the next command to the right of the pipe.
So any output of this left side of the pipe will act as an input to the right side of the pipe.
And this is something that you will be using quite commonly in Splunk.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note.
So let's discuss about one of the commands called as table at an overview.
The table command returns the table that is found by only the fields that you specify in the arguments.
For example here you see you have a source of access.
Log action is equal to add to cart.
So generally in larger organization, what happens is users add some product to the cart.
So you are searching for that data and then you have a pipe.
And then you are creating a table of requested time.
So at what time did the user perform this action of adding to cart.
Then you have the client IP, the IP address of the user and also the product ID on the right.
So this also proves to be very useful.
Let's go ahead and try it out post which will be discussing about other commands.
So within our Splunk environment let's go ahead and quickly search for the source of access dot log
that we have.
Let's specify all time and we'll search it.
Now within here there are a lot of actions that user might be performing.
For example, here one of the actions is add to cart.
So we are looking for such actions base events.
So what you can say action equals to add to cart.
In case if it is not populated you can type it here and now.
If you search you see you have around 3000 events where the user have added the product to the cart.
So this is one part.
Now what happens is you do not really want all of the data because there's so many other data like the
status code, the referrer, the referrer domain, the IP address, the J session ID, and so on.
So for the sales team, all of these details might not be useful.
So the sales team might require very specific set of details.
So if you want very specific set of details instead of all of the events, you can make use of the table
command.
So here we'll specify table.
And then what details do you require.
You can specify this.
So the first details we require is the time.
So here you have req underscore time.
So specify req underscore time.
This is first detail that is required.
Second detail that might be required let's say IP address.
So let's specify client IP.
Ideally in production environments when sales teams are concerned you will have a phone number of the
user.
All right.
So we're just taking an example of client IP.
And then one more important detail might be the product ID.
So let's also specify that I'll say product ID.
These are the only three details that we require.
Let's go ahead and search.
So now you see in the statistics tab we are getting only these three data requested type client IP product
ID.
And you have multiple set of pages that are available.
Now generally you might have noticed that whenever you shop from some e-commerce website, not Amazon,
but some smaller website, whenever you add something to the cart and if you do not really make a purchase,
then sometimes within ten 15 minutes you will get a call.
Sir, are you facing any issues in buying the product?
Because we have seen that you have added something to the cart on this specific time, but you have
not made a purchase.
Are you facing any issues?
Can we help you?
So this is very common.
So in such case this type of query helps where instead of client IP you will have the phone number.
And in the product ID you might also have a product name so that sales team can effectively see what
is the product name associated with the product ID.
So this is one of the examples where one of the commands in SPL, which is table, proves to be very
useful.
The second important command is stats.
Stats command.
It calculates aggregate statistics such as average, count and sum over the incoming search result.
So let's consider that you have the IP address and multiple IP addresses are connecting to the website.
Now you want to see how many requests the specific IP address has made to your server.
So in such case the stats command proves to be useful because it will calculate the aggregate statistics.
So in here you have stats count by client IP.
So what it will do for each event you have a client IP, it will calculate how many events are there
associated with that IP.
So here you see this IP has in total of 138 events.
So generally this is also useful in wide variety of security use cases.
If you want to see a specific IP is trying to SSH how many times into various servers that might be
running in the organization, let's also look into it.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead.
And this time we'll take one different example where you have the source of secure log.
So this is var log secure.
Let's search.
And you have all of this data.
Now we know that for every attempt there is a IP address that is logged.
For example this is IP.
This is IP and all.
So you might want to see the statistics like this specific IP address has made how many attempts to
connect to the server.
So all of those things as we know stats command proves to be useful.
So you can say stats.
Then you can say count by.
By what?
By the IP address.
In this case it will be SK.
So when I press enter you see in the statistics it will show you that this specific source IP has events
in total of 66.
This one has total events of 160 and so on.
So this gives you lot of important information.
And again this is very useful in security point of view as well.
The next set of SPL command is top.
Top command also proves to be useful at an overview.
This command finds the most common values for the fields in the field list.
For example, here you're specifying top client IP.
So which IP has made the most request?
Over here you will be able to find that you will get the top details of them.
Let's also look into it.
So here the same query.
So instead of stats you can just replace it with top.
So you want to see total.
What are the top sources of IP addresses that are connecting to the server.
Now one more thing before we proceed.
In fact when you have a count because here you don't have a proper ordering over here.
So you might want ascending or descending.
So you might want to see from highest.
So in such case you can just click over here automatically.
You see you have a proper order.
So 3452181 2181 89 186.
So this becomes much more easier now.
You can also make use of top over here.
So you can say top by sk.
And here also you see 3452181 89 and so on.
So thing is here it will show you the top set of values.
It will not go ahead and show you all of the bottom set of values.
So this is also quite useful.
And it also shows you the percentage this many count is associated with how much percentage of events.
So this is one thing that you have to keep a note.
Now before we proceed further, one more thing that I wanted to share is that for each command that
we are discussing, there is a specific set of detailed documentation that is available.
For example, for the top command it says find the most common values for the field in the field list.
So this is one thing.
Again the documentation is quite extensive.
So this is something that you can read when you are working with commands in a production environment.
It also shows you some details like by default the total number of results to return is ten.
So if you see in total we are seeing ten set of results from the descending order.
Now the next command is very interesting and it is called as IP location.
At an overview IP location command is used to enrich your events with geographical information like
the country and city based on the IP address field.
So we know that many of the events have IP addresses that are available.
So what IP location will do?
It will add few more fields based on the IP address.
It will calculate the city and country and those fields it will automatically add as part of the event.
And this proves to be very useful.
Let's also look into it.
Now within here as we were discussing that you are seeing the IP addresses, but you do not really know
from which country the IP address belongs to.
So this is where the IP location proves to be useful.
So you can just say IP location and the name of the field which contains the IP address.
Let's search for it.
And now you will not see anything happening.
But there are additional fields that are added.
For example, this event has the IP address.
If I'll quickly open this, you see automatically you are seeing the country as well as the city as
well as the region.
So all of these fields have been added.
Along with that, you will also see the latitude and longitude related data that is added as part of
the field only from this IP address.
So Splunk has its internal set of database where it can map that a specific IP address might belong
to which country, which city.
So this also proves to be useful.
Again, this is for all of the events where IP addresses are present.
For example, all of these IP addresses are same which is 23.
Let's go to few other pages.
This is a different IP 89.
So if I open this you see this is coming from country of Turkey.
This is the city Istanbul.
This is the region.
And you have the latitude and longitude.
This proves to be very useful specifically when you start with the visualization.
Now one more thing.
So let's say that all of the events now has the field of country.
Now you want to see which is the highest number of countries that are connecting to your SSH.
So you can also do that.
So here you can say stats count by country.
Let's search.
And this time you see you are getting all of these details.
You can also verify.
So the highest request is coming from United States then from China, United Kingdom Russia, South
Korea and so on.
So this kind of data is very useful specifically whenever you are working in security and also in other
areas related to analytics.
Great.
So that's a very high level overview about some of the SPL commands.
Again, since we are getting started, I wanted to keep it simple, and we were very focused on few
important set of commands in the upcoming set of videos.
Throughout the course, we'll be discussing about more set of commands as the use case arises.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Basics of Visualization ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about the basic aspect of visualization in Splunk.
Now in Splunk you can create various types of visualizations.
There are a lot of configurations that are available for you to choose from.
All depends upon the data points and the type of visualization that you require.
Now, one of the very important points to note is that to create the charts visualization, your search
must transform the event data into statistical data tables.
So if you see over here, you have a source of access log.
And then you're transforming it into tables using the top.
So this table where you have some values associated with client IP, some values associated with count.
So this statistics details over here.
This is one of the key elements for generating the visualization.
If you have the right set of data points over here your visualization is going to look quite amazing.
Alright so this is also one point that you have to keep a note.
So here if you see in this specific screenshot based on the count over here, the pie chart is automatically
created.
So which is the largest value?
Largest value is 396.
Associated with IP address 216.151.
And you see in the pie chart, the largest part over here is associated with 216.51.
Then you have 11.101 which is the second highest, and so on.
So again it is not necessary that based on this data you can only create pie chart.
There are lot of types of visualization that are available and you can choose from any one of them.
Now one of the important ways in which you can create the right set of statistics can be using the time
chart command.
At an overview, the time chart command takes the results and groups them into time based buckets,
depending upon the search time range and the data.
For example, over here you have a source as access dot log and then you have a time chart count.
So you want to see on which day how many request has come.
So on 18th July 2025, you only have 372 requests that came to the website.
Then on 19th July you have 2000 requests.
Again, on 28th July you have 1800 requests and so on.
So using the time chart on the left, you will see the time.
On the right you will see the count.
And this is quite useful for the sales team or the marketing team so that they can analyze on which
day you have the highest traffic, which days you have the lowest traffic, and based on that, they
can perform the marketing related event accordingly.
Now, once you have the statistics in place, you can generate the visualization.
So now you see you have the same data as part of the visualization.
You have the exact same data based on this data you have the visualization which is the column chart
that is created.
And now through visualization things has become much more simpler.
So generally you only have certain dates like July 18th to July 25th, but in the larger organization
you will have many dates.
And when you have larger amount of data set, then just by reading count, this is not the best way.
When you have a visualization in place, it becomes much more simpler.
So this is example number one.
Let's take one more example of time chart over here.
So what you are seeing here is that you have added the IP location of client IP.
This is something that we have already discussed earlier.
It adds various fields like the city, the country, the latitude longitude in the events over here.
And then what you are saying is time chart count by country.
So now it is showing for each day it is showing how many requests is coming from each country.
These are the color codes associated with the country.
So most of the time you see this light blue which is the light blue.
Light blue is the United States.
So this is quite common.
So in most of the days the most traffic is coming from United States.
And similarly you can use that as well.
Now again it is not necessary that you only have to use one set of visualization.
There are a lot of visualizations that are available based on your choice.
You can select, but the important part here is to get the statistics first.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
This will give us better clarity.
So within Splunk let's go ahead and create a simple query I'll say source as access dot log.
Let's search for all time.
Now generally here you see all of the details.
It comes in events.
Now you also have something called as statistics.
And you also have something called as visualization.
So by default based on this you are not getting any visualization.
What it is stating your search isn't generating any statistics or visualization results.
So you can go ahead and first create that.
So let's try it out.
So within here let's specify time chart.
And we'll just count the request based on the timestamp.
So if I just press enter on the left side you have the timestamp in terms of days.
So these are the number of days that are available as part of the events.
And it is showing how many requests Splunk has received on a specific day.
So here note that you are seeing all of this as part of statistics.
So once you have the data that is available in the statistics now if you go to visualization, you see
automatically the visualization is getting created based on the values over here.
So if you hover you see 372 then 2111.
It comes from here only.
It comes from count 372 2111 and so on.
So in visualization also you have various type of visualization that is available.
So for example let's take one more example.
If you see this this is also quite useful.
So it shows you the data points.
And you can easily see on which day you have the lowest traffic, which day you have the average traffic,
which day is the peak.
This is also that is available.
Similarly you have other types like the visualization of pie chart.
So from here also you can see which day has the highest number of traffic and so on.
So again the type of visualization that is available differs.
Which type of visualization you want to use is based on the requirement.
Now, we were taking one more example where you have a time chart based command.
However, this time you are counting by country.
Let's also try it out before you can count by country.
You need to make sure that the IP location is correctly set.
For example, if you say IP location and you have to find what is the field where the IP address is
coming from.
Let's verify.
So in here the IP address is coming from client IP field.
So here what you can do.
You can say IP location client IP.
And now when you see this time you have country you have city and all.
So all of these additional fields have been enriched.
And now you can add the time chart command time chart command will always add a time.
So this is one point to note.
You can also use other commands.
It is not necessary that only time chart.
Any other commands like stats which can generate the statistics.
Those commands can also be used.
So here you can say time chart count by country.
All right.
So now you see, for each day it is showing how many request has received from each country.
So you have 93 on 18th July, you have 519 July from United States and so on.
So again, this data is useful.
But most important part is the visualization.
So using the visualization you will be able to quickly identify things in an easier way.
Again as we were discussing it is not necessary that only one type of visualization is available.
There are wide variety of visualization that can be used.
So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of.
Now here we were discussing that to create chart visualization your search must transform the events
into the statistical data.
So as we were discussing it is not necessary to only use time chart.
You can also use for example you can also say within your top client IP.
All right.
So now again you see this has generated the statistics for us.
So it shows you the top client IPS.
And now in the visualization you can see that this is the highest number of requests that has been received
by one of the client IPS, which is 51.
Similarly you can create a pie chart.
This also can prove to be useful.
And again you can also use say stats count by client IP.
This will also generate statistics.
But the issue here is that it generates a lot of data.
You see there are so many pages available.
Again you can have visualization that can be created associated with this as well.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Great.
So that's a high level overview basic of how you can generate the visualization in Splunk.
Again as we are discussing there are a lot of other commands that can be used to generate right set
of statistics.
Based on the right set of statistics.
You can generate great set of visualizations.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Challenge - Find Attack Vectors ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now, in the past few videos we have been discussing about the basics of SPL commands, basic of visualization
and so on.
So we are slowly getting used to Splunk.
So today's video is going to be a small challenge where you have to find certain set of attack vectors.
Now generally what happens is that when you work as Splunk administrator in real world organization,
one of the common use case is that someone will say that XL find this data in Splunk.
So there is some error.
Find me this error.
Or if you're working into the security side, auditor is one of the common people that you will be regularly
working with.
Auditor will have hundreds of requirements.
I need this data.
I need that data.
Create some dashboards, find me that data so that all of the requirements can be set.
So in today's video we have a very small use case over here which says that the Linux secure logs are
indexed in Splunk.
This is something that we already know.
And you are working as Splunk administrator.
And then you have the auditor.
And the auditor has asked you for a specific set of data based on the requirement.
And your job is to find that data from Splunk and share it with the auditor.
So what is the requirement that the auditor has said?
Let's explore.
In total, there are seven requirements that the auditor has shared.
First is find the total number of SSH failed login attempts.
This is also one of the very common things that you will see in security.
Then top attacking IP addresses.
You want to see which IP addresses are attacking you the most.
This is also useful.
This in turn will help you to block those IP addresses in the firewalls.
Then you have the all targeted failed usernames.
So when someone tries to log in through SSH, they will try username, maybe root, maybe admin, maybe
Splunk.
So all the targeted usernames that have failed attempt you have to provide that.
Then the geographic location of the attackers.
So all of this is from the perspective of Linux secure log.
All right.
This is one thing to note.
You want to see from which countries the attackers are coming from.
So I still remember when I was working in one of the organizations not working, I was consulting with
them.
So apparently their dev environment was breached.
So the CTO of that company, he was my good friend.
So he called me.
And what we did was we took all of the data.
We analyzed analyze the data in the Splunk and most of the requests in that organization.
When we discuss about the field requests, it was coming from North Korea, and you had China and few
other countries.
So you have to be very careful when you leave your firewall open to everyone.
The attackers are definitely going to accept the invitation to attack your servers, so you have to
be quite careful there.
So this also proves to be useful where you want to see geographic location of attackers from which countries
they are coming.
Now then what we did was when you analyze that most of the attacks are coming from specific countries
and you do not really sell your product there.
So let's say you are selling some product only in India, but attackers are coming from another country.
What you can do if you have a CDN, say CloudFront or Cloudflare, you can block the entire country
in that CDN.
So any user who tries to come from that country automatically, he'll be blocked.
And that proves to be very useful.
So you can do that.
Maybe at a CDN level you can do that, maybe at a web application, firewall level, etc..
So for all of that the geographic location of attacker can be useful.
Then you want to see successful SSH logins by username and IP addresses.
So any time someone has successfully logged in to the SSH server, you want to see the username as well
as the IP address associated with that.
Then you want to see failed login attempts over time.
So over days you want to see how many failed login attempts are happening.
And the last is geo location of all countries from which the requests are coming from.
So you want to get a map, and in the map you want to see the data where all of the requests are coming
from.
Now the seventh point over here, we have not yet discussed in the course.
We will be discussing this seventh point specifically in the solution video.
Many times what happens is that auditor will give you some requirement and the solution you might not
be aware of it.
So that is the reason why we have a unknown solution over here.
The serial number one to serial number six, you will be able to solve it.
We have already discussed about the relevant set of commands in the earlier videos.
Spend some time.
Spend 20 to 25 minutes trying to solve that requirements.
It will build your analytical skills and in the next video we'll be discussing about solution associated
with each of the requirement.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Solution - Finding Attack Vectors ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video, we had received some of the requirements by the auditor to find certain set
of data.
Today is going to be the solution video, where we'll try to see what is the probable solution that
you can use to fetch the necessary data.
Now the first requirement was find the total number of SSH failed login attempts.
Let's try to search for it.
First let's go ahead and search for the source of secure log where all of our Linux secure logs are
present.
Let's search for it.
Now.
One of the things that you will see is that you have a failed password for invalid user, failed password
for root user and so on.
So you have to first analyze the events.
Some events are like session open.
So this is where the user was able to successfully login to the server.
So these are the two primary events that you see session opened as well as the password.
Now you want to see find the total number of SSH failed login attempts.
How will you see the failed login attempts through this specific one.
So any event that has the field password.
You will consider that to be a failed login attempt.
So what you can do, you can search for failed password and out of around 9800 events, if I just press
enter here you see almost 8000 events are failed password.
So most of the events are failed.
Only certain events are successful.
So this is one of the SPL queries that you will use to find the data associated with requirement number
one.
Second is top attacking IP addresses.
Now for the Linux Secure log.
How will you find the attacking IP address?
One of the simplest way is to look into the failed attempts, because you see the majority of attempts
as part of the secure log are failed.
So all of these IP addresses, you can consider them to be the attacking IP addresses.
So you want to see the top attacking IP addresses.
So this will be simple.
What you'll have to do.
You have to find a field where the IP address is present in this case.
SK.
So now what you can do, you can just pipe it to say top SK.
And these are all of the top IP addresses that have failed password.
So this is one thing that you can do.
Again if you require more extensive list what you can do.
You can say stats count by SK.
This is also something that you can do.
And now you see you have an extensive list of IP addresses.
These are all the attacking IP addresses but in a descending order.
So this can also prove to be useful whichever way the auditor likes.
Third is all targeted failed usernames.
So let's see.
Let's remove this specific part now.
Failed usernames is something that you can get over here.
You can see failed password for the invalid user app server then failed password for root, then failed
password for invalid user test user.
So what you want to see?
You want to get details of all of the targeted failed usernames.
So now you have to see this value like app server root test user.
This is associated with which field.
Let's see.
So let's go a bit down.
So here you see you have a user and user underscore name field where app server value is appearing over
here.
So this is one let's search for root because here you have a invalid user app server invalid user test
server.
But here you have failed password for root.
So here you don't really see invalid user.
So just verify for which field you are getting the root username.
Let's verify again it is coming under user.
So this way things become much more simpler.
So now what you can do over here.
Let's verify all targeted failed user names.
So you can just use the stats over here.
You can say stats count by user or user name.
All right.
And here you will see all of the list of user names which has failed over here.
So this is one thing.
Again you can just make it descending.
So root user has the most failed attempts.
Then you have the administrator user then you have the operator user.
And again you have all of this data that is available.
Now one more interesting thing that I'd like to share is that the auditor will require all of this data.
So when we say he requires all of this data, it is not necessary that he'll always sit beside you and
he'll ask you to show the data.
So he'll say that, send me all of the details over email.
So in such case, are you going to take screenshot of all of the pages?
Answer is no.
What you can do is you can export the data as well.
So this is something that you will generally do in real world organization.
You export the data.
The file format is CSV, XML, JSON.
Let's export it over here you have a CSV file.
Let's open the CSV file.
I'll open it with Excel and you have the Excel that is generated here.
You see how many rows are there.
Let's go a bit down.
You have around 155 events.
So this is something that ideally auditor will require because he has to create the necessary set of
evidences and the documentation.
So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of.
The next thing is the geographic location of the attackers.
Now at this stage in fact, let's go back.
At this stage we are only getting the IP address.
So even in the fields over here we are getting the IP address.
Now what you can do, you can just copy the IP address over here.
And there are a lot of tools like IP lookup that are available where you can check the IP block info.
So let's open this.
You can add the IP address.
You can do the lookup and then it will show you from where exactly this is coming from.
So you see this part is coming from Spain.
So this is associated with Spain.
Now there can be hundreds of events because here we saw that there are around 8000 events.
So if the auditor wants geographic location of the attackers, like which country the attackers are
coming from.
Then in such cases, you might not really do this manual approach.
You will require some form of automation and one of the right command here is IP location.
So you can just say IP location src.
And now for each field over here you will see the details of the country.
So this one is associated with Spain.
Then maybe if you have some other because all of these are same IP addresses ending with 23.
This is a different IP 203 if we'll open this this is coming from Australia.
So this is also something that proves to be useful.
Now if we look into the requirement it says geographic location of attackers.
However although geographic locations are present.
But are you going to send 8000 events to auditor.
And generally in production environments you can have millions of events.
So this is something that you do not really want.
You want to send much more better data for auditor to review.
So what you might do, you might say top country.
And now you see you have a good list over here.
Or if you don't really require a top over here, you can say stats count by country and now you have
a better list of all of the countries.
So this is one thing that you can export.
Or you can also have the visualization right set of visualization.
If you see this is much more better from here you can identify that the most requests are coming from
United States.
Then you have significant requests coming from China and other countries.
So you can also send the visualization along with the statistics data.
This will become much more simpler.
The next requirement is successful SSH logins by users and IPS.
So let's try it out.
Let's remove all of these queries over here.
Now first you have to see where can you find the successful attempts.
Because most of the attempts over here, these are the failed attempts.
So you have to see the successful attempts.
So this you can consider as successful accepted password from user.
This is the username and this is the IP address.
Since you have accepted password you can consider this to be successful attempt.
So now you can search for this.
So within your let's go ahead and search for accepted password.
So you have around 380 events that are successful.
Now for the successful SSH logins you require details of username and IP addresses.
So you don't require all of the details.
You only require the IP address which is associated with the PSK field and the username associated with
either user or user.
Underscore name field.
So here what you can do.
Again you can use that.
You can say stats count by user.
And see when I press enter it will show you that in total there were only three users that have been
logged in successfully.
You have the D Johnson.
This is the source IP.
This is the count and you have two more users over here.
So this is also something that you can show.
So the requirement number five is also completed.
The requirement number six is auditor wants to see failed login attempts over time.
And in bracket you have days.
So for this day how many failed login attempts for the next day.
How many failed login attempts.
So auditor wants to see this data.
So now what you can do.
You can just go back.
What we are going to do.
We are going to search for failed password over here.
So these are all the failed password now associated with all of them.
There is a timestamp.
If you can see there is a timestamp that is available.
So you want to see on which day how many failed login attempts have been made.
So for this time chart is the right command.
We have already discussed about the time chart, so you can just say time chart count.
If I press enter, you can easily see that on 18th July you have 397 attempts.
19th July around 1000 attempts and so on.
And now comes the very interesting requirement, which says geolocation of all countries from which
requests are coming from.
Let's understand what this means.
So the auditor wants to see a map something similar to this.
From this geolocation, he can easily identify from which part of the world most of the requests are
coming from.
And this is very useful.
It looks good and it also provides a lot of interesting information with just the glance.
So how can you generate this form of visualization?
And the answer is you have to make use of the geo stats command.
So geo stats is used to generate the statistics, to display the geographical data and summarize the
data on the map.
Something similar to this.
All right.
So you have to make use of this command.
Let's go ahead and see how it works.
So within here we'll just remove this specific part over here.
Now if you look into the requirement the requirement says geo location of all countries from which the
requests are coming from.
So these are not specific to field request or successful request.
All of the request now for field as well as successful requests.
The IP address is associated with the field of SRC.
So now one thing to note is that for the geolocation you will require the details like the country as
part of the fields.
So this is the reason why what you have to do first is you have to use the IP location followed by the
src, so that the existing fields are enriched with information like the country, like Spain and others.
Once you have this, then you can make use of the geo stats command and you can say count by country.
When I press enter.
So we have the statistics over here.
These are all the statistics.
And in the visualization again this is not the right type of visualization.
Depending upon the statistics there is the right set of visualization.
You will have to figure out which one would be that.
So for this you see it is showing recommended is this.
Or you can also look from here.
So if I quickly open this you see you're able to quickly identify.
So you have many requests that are coming from China and South Korea.
Then you have many requests that are coming from United States Mexico.
And basically this proves to be much more useful.
So whenever you're working in real world organization, auditor is not really interested, although
he's interested in all of this data from documentation perspective.
But when he's auditing your environment, specifically the external auditor, he wants to see a visualization,
something similar to this where he can quickly identify, okay, these are the countries from which
the requests are coming from.
And then maybe if you have any subsequent questions, he can easily ask.
So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of always.
Whenever possible generate the right set of visualizations and this can make your life simple.
Great.
So these are the solutions associated with the existing requirements by the auditor.
I hope you found this challenge and the solution video to be useful.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Splunk Search Assistant ---

Instructor: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing
about Splunk search assistant.
Now, Splunk search assistant is a pretty useful feature
when you are writing query, in terms of SP language,
within Splunk query reader.
Now, generally, whenever you begin typing certain characters
in the Splunk search bar, you might have noticed
that Splunk is giving you matching term,
as well as matching searches.
So, this auto fill-like feature is something which is done
through the help of Splunk search assistant.
Now, a similar feature you might have seen in Google,
where you're typing something and Google will show
you a list of suggestions.
So, that is also something like a auto fill.
Now, when it comes to Splunk search assistant,
there are three modes in which it operates.
One is full, second is compact, and third is none.
Now, by default, Splunk search assistant
runs on compact mode.
However, this is something that you can change.
Now, let me quickly show you.
So, if you'll see over here, within the search bar,
if I do a stats count,
it is actually giving me lot of result.
If I remove stats, if I type table, and it is automatically
giving me various results over here.
So, all of these results, they come from two sections.
One is suggestions and second is history.
So, within table, if I type table,
you see it is showing me command history.
So, these are the SPL that I had used in the earlier videos.
That is why it is showing me command history.
But, when you do stats, also, there are a lot of
command history that you can find over here.
So, this is, basically, the compact editor.
Now, if you want to change it, you can go to your user,
you can go to preferences,
and within the SPL editor here,
you'll see there are three search assistant.
By default, it is into the compact mode.
So, I'll select it as full mode, and I'll click on apply.
So, once I click on apply, the way in which search works
is a little different.
It will be much more intuitive,
and much more easier to read.
So, let's try it out once again.
So, if you see now, something has changed.
It has become much more bigger now.
So now, if I do a stats, what it will do is,
it will show me the command history.
It also shows me, on the right hand side,
certain examples related to stats.
So, if you do a stats count by.
Now, if you click on more here,
it will show you the documentation syntax.
So, here you see, you can easily see the syntax.
It also shows you various examples over here.
So, it becomes much more easier to remember.
So, if you do not really know the SPL syntax exactly,
you can make use of full mode.
You can read it directly.
You can read the basic documentation.
Instead of going through the documentation
through splunk.com page, you can directly go through here,
and you can write your queries over here.
So, it becomes much more easier.
Now, it really depends on you whether you might want
to use compact mode or full mode,
or if you are a pro, then you can use none.
But, I generally prefer to use full mode.
But again, it depends upon the individual.
Now, one last thing that it is important for us to remember,
is that if you are making full mode for your user account,
it will not affect others.
So, it might happen that there are 10 users
who are using Splunk.
So, whatever changes that you make
to your search SPL editor, it will not affect others.
Everyone can have their individual
Splunk search assistant modes.
So, this is it about the Splunk search assistant.
A pretty short video,
but a pretty useful feature in the longer run.
So, with this, we'll conclude the video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Overview of Splunk Reports ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about Splunk reports.
Now at a high level overview.
Splunk report is a saved search query that runs on your data to generate a summarized results.
Now, as part of this course, we have been running some SPL query to generate some results like field
SSH, login attempts, etc. so this saved search query is nothing but the SPL query that gets run on
your index data in Splunk to generate summarized results similar to what we have been doing manually.
Now, one of the great benefits of Splunk report is that it can be scheduled to run at intervals, so
you can automatically schedule the specific save search query to run at 24 hours, weekly basis, monthly
basis, etc. and the results of it can be distributed via email, slack, webhooks, or even it can
be saved to dashboards.
And there are a lot of customizations that are available now before we look into the demo that will
give us better clarity, let's look into the workflow and then we'll have a demo.
Now one of the important part of Splunk report is the saved search query.
So this is the first part.
So whatever report you want the query needs to be created first.
So let's assume that there is a sales manager that requires the sales number on a daily basis.
So for that you will first require the SQL query that can find out the sales number.
Once you have the basic SQL query then you can create a report called as Daily Sales Number Report.
Now this report can be scheduled to run at regular intervals like 24 hours.
And also as we were discussing the results can be distributed via email, webhooks, etc..
So now once you have the report created, you can schedule it to be sent.
Whatever results that are output of this report, it can be sent over email at a 24 hour interval to
the sales manager.
And this entire process is automated.
So every day the report will get generated and the output of that report may be through PDF, CSV,
etc. will be sent to the sales manager.
This is the basic concept.
Let's have a demo to understand it in better terms.
Now for today's demo.
Currently I am in Splunk.
Let's go to the search and reporting app over here and let's go to reports.
Now within here you see there are multiple default reports that are created.
I also have this report which is failed logins by country.
You will not see it in your Splunk.
This is the custom report that I've created just for demo.
But you will see other reports that are available.
Now whenever you open up any report, let's open this.
Splunk errors last 24 hours.
You can open any report also.
So whenever I open a report you see in here I get the direct output.
I did not really had to run any SQL query etc. so this is one interesting part where directly you get
the necessary data without having to run the SQL query.
You can also customize time based on your requirement.
This is one part that is possible.
Now, we were discussing that a Splunk report is a saved search query behind a specific report.
For example, behind daily sales number report, there will be a SQL query that can find the sales number
in the first place.
Similarly behind this report also like Splunk errors in last 24 hours, there must be a SQL query.
So if I click on open in search, you will see that there is a SPL query that is available and the output
of this is given as part of the report.
Now again note that this is a simple query.
Generally in production environments you will have a very complicated queries.
So instead of just copy pasting those complicated queries to get the results, you can just create a
report, open the report and you get the direct output.
This is one of the great benefits.
Let's take one more example.
This is a custom example.
It is failed logins by country.
So from the name itself we can identify what it means.
If I'll open this over here automatically in the output you see on the left you have a country, and
on the right you have the failed logins.
So Australia failed logins is 132 and so on.
There are so many countries that are available.
Again for this.
We did not really had to write a SQL query from scratch, but we know that behind the scenes report
will have the SQL query.
If I open it in search, this is the actual SQL query that is available.
So this is one important part of a report.
Now the second important part of report is that it can be scheduled to run at intervals.
For example, this part that we were discussing that sales manager requires the daily sales number every
24 hours.
So here you have two approaches that you can use.
First is you can manually run this SQL query on a daily basis.
Whatever output of that query that you receive in terms of numbers, you can copy and you can manually
email to the sales manager at a 24 hour level.
But if you are lazy like me, you don't really want a lot of manual process.
You want everything to be automated so that even if you are in a vacation, you don't really have to
worry about sending the sales number automatically.
The Splunk will send the sales number and you can relax in your vacation.
So in a very similar way, if you look into this specific report, you will see that if I click on edit
you have a specific option of edit schedule.
So this report is scheduled to run every hour.
But you can run it every day.
You can run it every week, every month.
Or you can also have a cron schedule where you can customize the schedule accordingly.
All right.
So this is the schedule report functionality that we were discussing.
This is the great benefit here.
Then we were also discussing that the results of that report.
For example this report has certain results like how many countries and the associated failed attempts
are coming from them.
So this is the results that maybe a security manager would require.
So the results of this report can be sent to the appropriate manager through various channels like email,
webhook, etc..
Now, if I look into this specific report over here, you will see that within here it is scheduled
to be sent via email to a email address called as instructors at the rate.
And you also have the schedule priority like default higher, highest.
This is one interesting part.
So if you really require report daily basis on timely manner, you can schedule the priority to highest.
Now along with the email for example, if you see you can send email you can send to Splunk mobile.
You can use webhook to send to slack, etc..
So lot of customization that you can do based on where do you want the report to be sent to?
So these are the two important areas as part of Splunk report.
Again, when we discuss about this from practical point of view you will have a better clarity.
But I hope at the overview you have understood the benefits that Splunk report might provide.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Splunk Reports ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we were discussing at an overview about Splunk report and the benefits that
it provides today is going to be the practical video where we'll have a better understanding on how
we can create a report.
So we have a simple use case which states that we have a security manager.
And this manager should receive an email every 24 hours that contains a list of IP addresses and the
corresponding country locations from which the failed login attempts have occurred.
So if you look into screenshot, you will see that you have a country and you will see how many failed
login attempts are coming from a specific country over SSH.
So you have to send this report every 24 hours to the security manager.
Now for this the first important part is the SPL query.
So you need to write SPL query that can generate this specific data.
So let's go ahead and quickly do that.
Now coming back to the Splunk let's go to the search and reporting app.
And we already had indexed the Linux Secure log in the previous videos if you remember.
So that Linux secure logs are very important for today's practical.
So let's go to the data summary.
If you see we have the Linux host over here and you have a secure dot log.
You also have the Linux secure source type that is available.
So this is important.
So first thing that you require is the secure dot log.
Now what is the requirement.
The requirement states that you need to have a country and the number of failed login attempts.
So let's go ahead and try it.
So I'll say failed password.
Now again we are not really going too much into SQL queries.
We have already discussed all of these SQL queries in the earlier video.
So let's go ahead and search.
So if you see all of the results that you see they are of failed password over SSH.
This is one part.
Now since we also require country we can look into which field has the IP address.
In this case it is ssh.
So now what we are going to do.
We are going to run IP location ssh.
So now we'll also have the country over here.
So if you see you are seeing the country as well as the city.
And once you have the country you can just say stats count by country.
All right, so now you got this result.
Now there are two ways in which you can achieve this use case.
One way is every 24 hours you can manually run this query.
You can generate the report.
So you can go ahead and export it to various format like CSV, XML, JSON, let's say CSV.
You can export it, you can open this.
And here you see you are seeing the country and the number of failed attempts.
So every 24 hours you can generate this report.
You can send it to the sales manager.
This can also do.
But since we require much more better approach, automation is the right way to go.
So what we are going to do, we are going to generate a report where automatically email can be sent
every 24 hours to the sales manager or maybe to the security manager, etc..
So the first thing is this part, which is the SQL query.
Once you have the SQL query, you can save it as report.
So you can click on report.
You can give a name to the report, let's say failed login attempts daily.
You can click on save.
Once you have done that, you can click on view.
You will be able to see the report over here.
Or you can go back to Splunk.
If you want to see what is other way, you can go to Search and Reporting app.
You can click on reports.
Here you see failed login attempts daily.
If you open this you will get the details over here.
Sometimes what happens is if the report has not run in such cases, you will not get this data.
And when you schedule the report at a specific time interval, then this data will get generated.
Now at this stage the data is getting generated.
So we understand this saved search query.
But the scheduling of that report and distributing of that report is something that is not configured.
Now it is very easy to do that.
So what you can do you can click on edit.
You can click on edit schedule within here you can click on Schedule Unscheduled report.
So I can click over here.
And now you can say schedule to run every week, every hour, every day, etc. for our case, run every
day is quite good enough.
This is one part.
Then the schedule priority again.
If it is high priority you can set it to highest.
This is the first part where you can schedule the report to run at a specific interval.
Then the next part is distributing the results.
So distributing the results in trigger actions you can say there are multiple options that are available.
You can click on send email and you can specify the email address over here like instructors at labs
dot in.
Again the email will not be sent because this will require the SMTP servers, etc. however, I'm just
showing you the workflow now within here you can say attach PDF or attach CSV and you can click on save.
Alright, so at this stage you see it says there are no results because the first schedule run of the
report has not completed.
This is something that we were discussing.
So after 24 hours.
Here, once the scheduling of report completes, you will get to see the report over here.
And if your SMTP servers are configured, the report will be sent to the necessary email address.
Now you will not really see the email.
You will have to configure SMTP.
Let me also show you from where you can do that.
So when you go to server settings over here when you click on email settings.
So within here you have a mail host of localhost etc..
So nothing is configured over here.
So if you have the SMTP servers you will have to specify SMTP server details here.
The username the password associated with it.
And also send email as if your SMTP server is perfect.
Authentication is working and things are configured.
Then the report will be sent at a interval towards the sales manager or the security manager.
So this is also one point that you have to keep a note of.
That's a high level overview on how you can practically create a Splunk report.
Again it is very easy.
And go ahead and create report based on your requirement for your organization.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Splunk Alerts ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we are going to discuss about one of the very important aspects of Splunk, which
is related to the alerting whenever you set up Splunk in production environments, if you do not have
the right set of alerts, then you will not be able to detect the security attacks in time.
So it is very important that you set the right set of alerts as part of Splunk.
This will help you tremendously.
So in today's video at an overview, we are going to discuss the basics of Splunk Alerts.
And later we'll also discuss about it from the practical perspective.
Now at a high level Overview Alert uses a saved search to look for events in real time or even based
on a schedule, generally for critical security related events.
The alerting works at a real time basis.
So this is first part.
Second part is alert triggers when search results meet specific conditions.
So let's take a simple example where you have a Splunk server.
And Splunk server is monitoring a specific Linux server that you might have.
So it is continuously monitoring it.
And now within here you have created a alert that will detect if the CPU utilization of your production
server is greater than 90%.
As soon as Splunk detects that CPU utilization is greater than 90%, it will immediately trigger an
alert, and this alert can be sent to the DevOps team who can monitor the server.
This is a very simple alert.
Generally, in larger environments you have very extensive alerts specifically related to security.
We'll be discussing it in just a moment.
Now for reference, I have also added a screenshot.
So generally when alert gets triggered, you will be able to see it in triggered alerts as part of Splunk.
However, you can also customize it where you can receive slack notifications, you can receive email,
and so on.
So with this base set, let's have a quick demo to understand this from real world perspective.
Now for today's video I have Splunk that is configured.
Now all of the traffic that is received as part of this.
Splunk is coming from KP labs website.
So whenever someone visits our website of KP labs in that traffic not only is logged at a server level,
but it is also forwarded to Splunk.
Now, the primary reason why I have a test setup of Splunk for KP labs is to monitor various kind of
security attacks that are happening on the server, so that I can also demonstrate it as part of seminars,
workshops, and definitely the videos as well.
Now, as part of this, if I go to search and reporting app, if you look into the data summary, you
see you have hundreds of thousands of events that are currently recorded and many of them are related
to attacks.
Now, let me quickly show you, I already have alerts that are configured over here.
Now one of the alert is related to IP block.
Now if I'll quickly open this alert, what generally happens is when someone tries to open some URL
like admin dot which they are not supposed to do, Then this alert gets triggered.
So if you will see in the actions over here you have add two triggered alerts.
And you also have slack.
So you have two actions that are happening over here.
And when you go ahead and go to triggered alerts in here, you see so many times the alerts are triggered.
That means some attacker are trying to open some web page as part of Collapsin, which either is not
existent, but the aim is that they are trying to open web page that they are not supposed to do.
This is one part.
In fact.
Let me also quickly show you.
So if I'll quickly go to the dashboard that we have.
Let me go a bit down.
So within here in request by country, you will see you have traffic that is coming from so many different
countries towards the KP labs in.
One more interesting thing that you will see is TCP IP addresses by count.
So some IP addresses are hitting.
you have 17,000 count.
So this is more of either a brute force attack that the user is trying to do or some form of denial
of service, etc. again, this is something that we are not going to discuss at this stage.
The most important part is this one page causing most errors.
Now you will see someone is trying to open URI for example in slash, admin slash env or in slash slash
env or slash dot slash config.
So generally dot git config can contain sensitive information.
So attacker is trying to see if there is this file that is available and accessible.
If they are able to see the file then it is a win win scenario.
If they are not able to see maybe you will get a 404 or maybe his IP address will get blocked.
So this is one thing.
From here we can see that there are so many attackers who are trying to go through the web server to
open various files and try their luck out.
So this is one part.
One more thing that we were discussing that for the alerts.
Not only they appear as part of the triggered alerts, but I also have a slack integration that is in
place.
So generally if I open up the slack you will be able to see.
So you see someone from Russia based on this IP address is trying to open.
So Klabin will not come over here.
Only the URI will come which is the slash dot env.
Or someone is trying to open this specific URI path or this specific URI path from various countries.
So this is one point that needs to be noted.
Let's have a quick demo to understand this entire setup as well.
So what I'm going to do through online curl, I am going to make a request to Cape Lab in and try to
see if there is a admin dot page that is available.
Many times what happens is that admin dot page is available and then the attackers will try to brute
force with username and passwords, or try to run various exploits, etc. but for that this page should
be available.
So when I make a curl request at this stage in slack notification, there is no admin that you can see
over here.
So let's click on run.
So as expected you have 404 not found.
However you see there is a new notification in slack where from United States this is the IP address.
And this IP address is trying to open the admin PHP page.
So why exactly all of this is coming so instantaneously?
It is because of the alerts.
Since you have alerts that are in place instantaneously over slack notification or through email, etc.,
you will be able to see the real time security attacks that might potentially be happening.
So this is the reason why having a right set of alerts is very important.
Now you see again, someone from United States is trying to open the admin form login.
So this is a very common occurrence.
Generally what we use to do is we used to immediately block the IP addresses in the firewall.
But I have kept it open so that we can see on what type of request the attackers are trying to make.
And this will help me subsequently as part of demos that I make.
So this is one part that needs to be noted.
Again, one thing is that in the triggered alerts you will see the same thing.
So the latest alert was related to form login.
So even in the triggered alert this is the latest alert over here.
So if you click on view result you will be able to see the exact one the admin form login.
So that's the overview about Splunk alerts.
Now again we are going to discuss about this practically in the upcoming videos.
But I hope at an overview you understood the importance of alerting.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Splunk Alerts ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in the earlier video we had a great introduction to Splunk Alerts.
We discussed on why it is essential to set up the right set of alerts in Splunk so that you can get
a timely notification whenever some event happens, like security attack on your servers.
So today is going to be the practical video where we are going to set up the Splunk alert so we will
get better clarity on how it works practically.
So today's practical use case is going to be very simple.
So what we are going to do we are going to create a file called as read only dot txt.
And here the assumption is that this specific file is intended to be read only and should remain unaltered.
Many times.
What happens is there are servers where there are some critical configuration files, and that files
should never be changed or modified.
However, the permission sets are not applied correctly and you will see that some rights are happening.
So you would require a notification alert whenever a new write operation is happening on this specific
file.
And this is going to be what we are going to implement.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So what we are going to do this temp read only dot txt file.
We are going to create in the Splunk server itself.
So it becomes easier for us.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So within the Splunk we are going to go ahead.
In fact let me quickly show you.
So whenever you add the data.
So within here you can monitor certain files and ports on the Splunk platform instance itself.
So let's go ahead and quickly do that.
Now this Splunk Enterprise I am running it in Docker.
So I have to connect inside the Docker.
In case if you are running Splunk Enterprise on a Linux server, you can just SSH into the Linux server
only.
That would be the difference.
So currently from the terminal let me quickly do a docker PS.
You see I have a Splunk container that is running.
All you have to do is you have to login inside the container because inside the temp folder we have
to create a read only dot.
TXT file.
So you have to login to the Splunk server or the Splunk container, whatever you are using.
So let me quickly use the docker command.
I'll say Docker exec with the Splunk user I'm going to connect to the Splunk container.
The name of container in my case if you see it is Splunk the user Splunk.
And we are going to connect through bash.
Sometimes the command to connect to the docker might change in case if it changes, I'll add it in the
next lecture.
Because the Splunk team they regularly update the containers.
So this might change.
So this is just one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now within here we'll go to the tmp folder in Linux.
And within here we are going to create a temporary file called as read only dot txt.
And here let's go ahead and add a content.
Say hello world one to read only dot TXT.
All right.
Now let's assume that this file after you have added the basic configuration this file is supposed to
be read only, but as we were discussing many times, what happens in servers is that the permission
sets are not applied correctly, or if it was applied correctly, it was removed at a later stage.
So you want Splunk to monitor this file and whenever new write operation happens, alert should be triggered.
Let's look into how we can do that.
Now going back to the Splunk Enterprise.
Let's go ahead and click on monitor over here.
And we are more interested in monitoring files and directories.
You can go ahead and click on browse.
Within the tmp folder there is a read only dot txt.
As you can see we'll select it.
Let's select it.
Over here we'll select the continuous monitor.
You have to make sure that this is selected.
Once you are done let's click on next.
As you can see Hello World one is present over here in the source tab.
You can just see if you are able to get a text based source type.
I'll just use one example over here.
Let's click on next in the host field value.
Over here you can give any host field value.
Splunk local.
In your case, this value will be different.
It would be the default host name of the container of the server.
It does not really matter.
All right.
So in fact let's do one thing in the host field value let's say text.
All right I'll just do review.
I'll do a submit.
Now let's click on start searching over here.
As expected there is one event that you are able to see.
Now just for simplicity what we are going to do, we are going to select all time over here or this
one all time real time, so that any new event that gets added to the file, you will be able to see
here.
Now let's go ahead and say hello world two.
So this is a new entry that is getting added to a potential read only file.
So here you should immediately see Hello World two.
This is essential part.
Once you see that things are working perfectly well in terms of getting new data, now you can go ahead
and create alert.
So let's go ahead and click on Save As.
Click on alert.
Now in the alert title over here let's say read only file modify.
Now the alert type you can either set it to schedule or you can set it to real time.
I'll be doing real time again.
It depends on use case to use case basis.
Ideally for security attacks and various similar scenarios.
Real time is better.
Now the trigger alert when per result is good.
So whenever a new result appears on the file, you should get an alert in the trigger.
Actions.
There are multiple set of actions that are available.
You can send an email, run a script, etc. we are going to keep it very simple.
We are going to say add to triggered alerts.
So in Splunk there is a triggered alerts page.
So it will be added over here.
You can say severity I would say critical.
And I'll click on save.
So it also says that this schedule search will not run after Splunk Enterprise trial expires.
So if you are using the Splunk Free version, which is not in trial, then the alert functionality is
not available there.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
You can click on View Alert over here.
So this is how the alert looks like.
Or in other terms you will also be able to see.
So in the search and reporting if you click on alerts you will be able to see your alert.
And you will also be able to modify in case if you require it.
So in terms of triggered alerts that we were discussing you will be able to find over here.
So in triggered alerts as of now you see there is no triggered alerts that are available.
So let's go ahead and test the entire workflow.
So what we are going to do in the search and reporting over here, we are going to monitor this text
file in real time.
So let's say all time real time over here.
And we are going to make some new change I'll say hello world three.
And as expected, we are able to see the new change as there is a new result.
Ideally, alert should be triggered.
So in the triggered alerts over here if I refresh.
You see automatically an alert got triggered.
The severity is critical.
The mode is per result.
So as part of this alert you will be able to see the exact reason why this alert was triggered.
Now why exactly this alert was triggered?
Because this text, Hello World three was added to read only dot txt.
So you will be able to see this exact reason.
Let me also show you.
So for a specific alert.
When you click on view result, you see you are able to see Hello world three.
So this becomes much more easier.
Now again, just for simplicity we had discussed about the triggered alerts.
This again is important, but you can have integration like you can send it to email, you can integrate
it with slack and all of those.
So wide variety of integration is available.
But this is the core aspect if you have triggered alerts working perfectly.
The other integrations like sending email, etc. all you have to do is you just have to add that action
whenever you're creating an alert, and that should do the job for you.
Now, in fact, let me also show you so that there is no confusion here.
So whenever you create an alert.
So at this stage in the actions you have add to trigger alerts.
So here so you can edit the adult.
So in the trigger actions you can add multiple set of triggered actions as we were discussing.
Like you can send an email.
This is the webhook integration.
Again this is very useful.
You can log the events, you can output it to lookup etc..
Again it depends upon the case to case basis.
But a lot of flexibility is there.
So this is the core aspect on how you can create these Splunk alerts.
Again you should have a right set of SPL query that will trigger a specific condition based on your
requirement.
And that is critical to Splunk alert.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Understanding Add-Ons and Apps ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video we'll be discussing
about one of the important topics in Splunk
which is the apps and add-ons.
Now, in the earlier section,
specifically when we were importing
the Linux authentication logs
we had looked into how by default
Splunk does not really extract various fields from the log.
However, after we had installed a appropriate Linux add-on
then all of the fields that were part
of the authentication logs were automatically extracted.
So at this stage we already know
that whatever add-on that we install
that add-on contains certain parcels that is able
to extract the fields from the logs.
So at a high level overview
the add-ons extend the functionality
of a Splunk platform and provides
required field extractions.
This is something that we have already seen.
Along with that, it also provides look-ups,
saved searches and others.
Now generally in Splunk, if you'll see that a log file
is not being parsed then from the marketplace you can search
for a required add-on that can go ahead
and do the required level of field extraction for us.
Now, do note that Splunk add-on
is more than just field extractions.
There are a lot of important use cases of Splunk add-on.
Let's look into some of them.
The first important use case apart from field extraction
is we can make use of add-on for data input.
So add-ons can be used to extract certain data
from a specific destination.
So let's say you have a Splunk instance
and you have a AWS environment
and you want to fetch the logs from AWS environment.
So in such cases you can make use of appropriate add-on.
So you have a AWS add-on in Splunk that can be used.
And this add-on has a required scripts that can connect
to your AWS environment and fetch the required level
of logs and other information
and add it as part of your Splunk environment.
Now before we continue, let me quickly show you this.
Now, currently I'm in a Splunk environment
and we had made use of a Splunk add-on for Unix and Linux
for extracting certain amount of fields.
However, as we were discussing that add-on can also be used
for fetching certain data from the environment
and the add-on for Unix and Linux can also do that.
Now let's quickly look into it.
So currently for us, Splunk add-on for Unix and Linux
it does a lot of things other than the field extraction.
So it can go and monitor files and directories.
It has certain scripts which basically run
and give you the output related to the CPU utilization
the overall bandwidth, the disc space, and so many others.
So I have already enabled them.
Let's look into how exactly these looks like.
So let's go to the search and reporting app.
And when we explore the data summary here,
let's go to source types.
And here you see that there are multiple source types
that are available.
And if you go a bit down
you have certain source types associated with PS
certain source types associated with talk
which basically gives you the information delivered
to the processes and its associated load.
Let's explore talk what exactly it shows here.
And here you'll basically see the contents as well
as various information related
to the load and other data associated with it.
Now generally in Linux, when you run the top command here
you'll see you'll get various information related
to the PID, the user, the command
which is plug D along with the CPU utilization
memory utilization, and various others.
And this is the same thing that you see in Splunk.
Now, this data that you see is being extracted
from our Splunk add-on for Linux and Unix.
And this is what the data input also refers to.
It can fetch the data from a specific destination.
The example that we were using for today's demo was AWS
on how a AWS add-on can fetch the data
from your AWS environment.
Let me also give you demo on this.
So let me quickly go back to the Splunk main console
and within here I have a Splunk add-on
for AWS that is installed.
Let me go ahead and open this up.
Now within here I have one input which basically
gets the metadata information from my AWS environment.
Now if you'll go ahead
and create a new input here, let's look
into what are the things that the add-on can fetch.
So here you'll see that it can fetch billing information
the cloud drill related data, the cloud watch
the config logs, it can fetch the ALB logs, AWS inspector
which is useful vulnerability scanning.
It can fetch that, it can fetch the VPC flow logs,
as well as any other custom data tab that you might have,
the AWS add-on will be able to fetch the data accordingly.
Now I already have one input that is already created.
Let's look into the data that it is able to fetch.
So let's go back to the search and reporting app.
Within the data summary,
if you'll explore the source type,
one of the source type where a lot of events are there
which is the AWS meta data,
primarily because this is the input that we had configured
within the AWS add-on.
So currently within the events here you'll see
that it is basically giving you various information
specifically related to the volume ID.
So you have a EBS volume here
which has this specific size, which is AGB
and it is available in the region of US east 1.
So if you look into these sources here
you have source related to EBS.
So you have a EBS level information.
You also have a S3 related information
that does Splunk is able to fetch.
So this is the second important use case
of a specific add-on.
Now the next important concept is related to Splunk apps.
So at a very high level overview,
apps basically it delivers a user experience
that makes data immediately useful.
Typically with pre-built dashboards
that makes data easy to analyze.
So generally add-on can go ahead
and add a required level of field extractions.
However, if you have huge amount of events
let's say a hundred, thousand events
it becomes a little difficult to go
and analyze each one of them.
So what you need, you need a certain amount
of dashboards and various other things.
So this is where the Splunk app comes
into picture as we're discussing, apps basically comes
with certain amount of pre-built dashboards.
So if you install a app and you have a right source type
of data and the data is extracted properly
then the app will allow you to go ahead
and see various dashboards
that app has come pre-built to it.
Now within Splunk base, let's go ahead and search for Linux.
So just for our example understanding.
So currently you have Splunk add-on for Linux
you also have Splunk app for Linux.
Let's explore both of them.
So the first one is Splunk add-on for Unix and Linux.
This is something that we've already seen
on how it allows us to do a required level
of field extractions.
Along with that it can also run various grips
to get various information from Linux
to give you better insights related to the processes
that are running disc utilization and various others.
So within the Splunk environment where we have the Unix
and Linux add-on configured,
you'll see that there are multiple source types
like service uptime, user accounts, version.
If you'll go a bit down
you have something related to Netstat and various others.
Now just having this data by itself
becomes a little difficult to work with.
So you need a required level of dashboards
and this is where this Splunk app for Linux and Unix comes.
So you, you'll see this app comes
with various level of dashboards.
So you have to configure the app
and then it'll go ahead and provide you various dashboards.
So you no longer need to create the dashboards
from scratch within Splunk.
All you can do is you can install the app
and if things are configured correctly
then you'll have great set of dashboards in Splunk.
Great. So at this stage I hope you understood the difference
between a add-on and the app
and the benefits that each one of them provides.
Now, few important things to note here
is that there are three types
of support criteria that you will generally see
in Splunk base related to the apps and add-ons.
First one is the Splunk supported,
second one is the developer supported,
and the third one is the community supported.
From the name itself we can identify
that if an app or add-on is Splunk supported
that basically means Splunk team officially supports it.
And if there are any issues associated
with that add-on and app, Splunk team will fix it for you.
Developer supporter is like a third party supporter.
So for example if you're using a specific product
in your organization, the team that manages that product
might have a add-on in Splunk.
So in case if you're running into the issues associated
with the add-on, Splunk official team will not help you.
You'll have to contact the third party team there.
And the third one is the community supported.
Now generally, if you'll explore the Splunk base over here,
you will see this blue icon which states built by Splunk.
In fact, let me quickly show you.
So here it states built by Splunk,
and it also is showing you Splunk supported.
In a similar way let's explore few of them.
Let's explore Tenable,
which is one of the very popular vulnerability scanner.
So for the Tenable add-on here you'll see
that the support is developer supported.
So if you are running into issues
the Splunk support team will not help you.
Remember while we were configuring the Tenable add-on
for our Splunk environment
you had a Tenable add-on for Splunk, which was built
by the developer, and you had a Tenable add-on for Splunk
which was officially built by Splunk.
So there were two add-ons and two apps that were available.
So then you had to choose which one works well for you.
However, now it seems that this Splunk
has officially removed their add-on
and now it's completely managed by Tenable itself.
Now one important part to remember,
and again this is my preference.
I personally prefer to use add-ons that are
Splunk supported.
Now specifically, this applies
to enterprises when you have terabytes of data coming in
and if you have some issues with the add-ons
the add-on is not able to fetch the data correctly
or it is not able to pass the data correctly.
And if it is Splunk supported
then you can officially raise a issue with the Splunk team
and let them do the troubleshooting for you.
So this is one great advantage
of Splunk supported add-ons considering that you
have a Splunk support available for your installation.
Now, before we conclude,
one very important note which is related
to the hardware considerations.
Now, do note that in your Splunk environment
let's say you have a Splunk running in your organization
you should not directly install a add-on our app.
Some of the Splunk add-ons
and Splunk apps are very resource heavy.
I still remember in our enterprise installation
we were configuring this Splunk SIM app.
So that is the enterprise security app
which is a very resource heavy,
and after we are install it, our Splunk went down.
So then we had to remove it
from the CLI and restart our Splunk environment.
So this is one important learning.
Now, do note that our environment
that was running Splunk enterprise,
it had a big hardware, a lot of RAM,
lot of CPU, still it went down.
So it was a little unexpected, but these things can happen.
And hence it is important to note
that running a Splunk add-on in a system
with a lower hardware
will lead to a Splunk going down
or sometimes even a server going down
or becoming unresponsive.
So you might have to restart your server.
Now let me give you a practical overview on this.
So currently I have Splunk running in my Docker environment.
In fact, all of these data,
this is the test set entirely built on Docker.
And here you see the overall CPU utilization
as well as memory utilization of Splunk is relatively high.
This is after I had add a certain level of cap
on the CPU utilization.
Earlier it used to range around 4GB, sometimes even 5GB.
In my test environment
where you do not really have active search happening.
So this is one important part to note.
Now, generally within the add-ons
if you'll go to the details
you'll get to the documentation associated with that add-on.
And documentation does have some information related
to the hardware requirements that you can take care of.
So this is basically the documentation
of Splunk add-on for AWS.
And if you look into the hardware and software requirement
as well as the sizing performance
and cost consideration for the Splunk add-on.
So when you look into it,
it basically gives you the information related
to how many CPU, how much RAM is the optimal one
specifically if you have a Splunk architecture
that uses the add-on that we are exploring.
It also gives you the instance types.
So this is a AWS instance type of info.xla.
So, so generally if you're going ahead
and deploying a new add-on or app in Splunk,
very important to go ahead and read the documentation
and also get it tested within the dev environment as well.
Great. So that's the very high level overview
about this Splunk add-ons and apps.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Installing Splunk Add-On for AWS ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video,
we'll go ahead and install this Splunk add-on for AWS.
Now one of prerequisite for this video
if you want to do it practically
is you will need a AWS account.
Now let's say that you do not really have a AWS account
that is also fine.
You can just go ahead and look into the video
at a demo perspective
because we'll be discussing
about lot of important practical considerations
related to Splunk add-ons.
So first, let's go ahead
and discuss the basics of Splunk add-on for AWS.
So the Splunk add-on for the Amazon Web Services
allows Splunk software administrators
to collect the AWS related data and the log.
So if you have multiples AWS environments
and you want to fetch all of the data of AWS to Splunk,
you will need to make use of this Splunk add-on
for the Amazon Web Services.
So as we are discussing in the earlier video as well,
the overall architecture looks something similar to this.
You have Splunk, you install this Splunk add-on
for Amazon Web Services,
and within this add-on,
you go ahead and configure the credentials
for your AWS account
and this add-on will connect to the AWS account
using your credentials
and it'll fetch the required logs and the data
that you ask the add-on to fetch.
Now whenever you intend to use any add-on within Splunk,
there are certain important checks that you need to make.
The first important checks states that,
the add-on must support your Splunk version.
This is very important, let's quickly look into it.
So currently I'm in the Splunk base
associated with our add-on of Amazon Web Services
and if you'll go a bit down, within the compatibility,
you'll basically see these Splunk versions.
So you have 8.1, 8.0, 8.2 and so on.
So whenever you go ahead and install an add-on,
make sure that it is compatible with the Splunk version
that you are using.
Some of the add-ons that you'll see in Splunk base
are only compatible with the older major version of Splunk.
So let's say currently the major version of Splunk
is Splunk 8.
However, some of the add-ons only support Splunk 7.
So this is one thing that you need to look into.
The second very important check is to make sure
that the hardware requirements required by the add-on
is fulfilled by a Splunk enterprise instance.
Some of the add-ons really require a very good hardware,
in terms of hardware
It basically relates to primarily the CPU and memory.
However, some of the other add-ons,
they do not really require a good hardware.
So basically whenever you explore a Splunk add-on,
you can always go to the details,
it will take you to the documentation
associated with the add-on
and within the documentation,
if you look into the hardware software requirements
as well as the sizing performance
and other considerations for this Splunk add-on on AWS,
and within here you'll basically
get a reference architecture.
So you have a reference hardware and software requirement
which is recommending m4.4xlarge,
which has a memory of 64GB and vCPU of 16.
Now do not, because this type of hardware
is definitely required for the Splunk add-on
for AWS considering you're pulling
a decent amount of data in a medium size organization.
In fact, we used to have a server with more memory
and CPU than the reference architecture here
while we were using the Splunk add-on for AWS primarily
because we had close to around 80 to 100 AWS accounts.
So things used to be very slow
if you go with lower level of hardware
and the third check is the support type.
So let's quickly go back to our Splunk add-on.
So for the Splunk add-on for Amazon Web Services,
you'll see that it is built by Splunk
and support is Splunk supported.
So in case if things are not working as expected
with your Splunk add-on,
you can officially raise a ticket to the Splunk team
considering you have a support available
and then the Splunk team will look for it.
Now this really matters for large enterprises.
You will see certain unexpected errors
and when you have terabytes of data coming in
from hundreds of AWS accounts,
support is something that will always be beneficial.
Great, so in today's video,
we'll have some interesting practical as well.
So what we'll do
is we'll go ahead and use a different hardware
where we'll go ahead and install
these Splunk add-on for AWS
and then we'll look into what happens
if you install it in a hardware
which is lower than one that is expected.
So for example, our Splunk add-on for AWS
will use two servers for installation.
One server has 1GB RAM
and second server has 4GB of RAM.
So these are two brand new servers
that I have created for today's demo.
So currently here, you'll see that I have two tabs.
First one with the IP of 117.
So this is a 1GB RAM server,
and the second one with the IP of 116,
this is a 4GB RAM server.
So let me go ahead and install the add-on
in the 1GB RAM server
and let's look into what really happens here.
So let's say Amazon Web Services,
I'll install this add on here, let me add the credentials.
I'll accept accepted terms and let's log in and install,
and in a similar way in our 4GB RAM server as well,
let's go ahead and install this Splunk add-on.
(keyboard clicking)
Perfect, so within our 1GB RAM server,
our add-on has been successfully installed.
Let's go back to the Splunk console
and here you see we have an add-on for AWS.
Let's open this up.
So one thing that you'll observe is that
it immediately goes into the loading state.
You will not really see the contents
that are part of the add-on.
In a similar way in our 4GB RAM server,
let's go to the Splunk add-on.
Let's open up our add-on for AWS,
and within here, you'll see that our input page is loaded
and we can go ahead and add new input.
However, within our 1GB RAM server,
you'll see the input page is not loading at all.
So in case if you try to open this up in a different tab,
let's open Splunk in a different tab here.
You see the Splunk web UI is not loading at all
and this is the reason why it is very important
for you to check the hardware requirements.
Some of the add-on really require good amount of hardware
and if you install it in a 1GB RAM server,
things will go down.
You'll not even able to connect to this server.
So this is one important part to note.
Now, in case if you want to connect this add-on to AWS
and look into how the data is fetched, practically,
I'll recommend you to launch at least a 4GB RAM server
and then you can go ahead and do this practically.
So anyways, our web UI of 1GB RAM server is not loading.
Anyways, this was a test server primarily for this demo.
I'll close this out.
So within digital (indistinct),
if you'll go ahead and quickly create a droplet here.
Here you'll see under the regular intel with SSD here,
the 4GB RAM and two CPU cost $0.030 per hour.
So maybe you can go ahead and launch a droplet,
use it for an hour or two, complete the practical
and then you can delete the droplet.
So this is something that can be done.
However, this is the minimum that is supported
even if you use a 4G B RAM server,
the Splunk add-on will slow things down.
But this is fine for a testing purposes.
Now, as we're discussing, once we have the add-on,
the next important part is your AWS account
and you need to connect your add-on with AWS.
So within your add-on,
if you'll go to the configuration page
and within here you can go ahead and click on add
where you'll have to provide the access key ID
and the secret key ID.
So within your AWS console under the IAM service,
let's create a new user
and within here, let's go ahead and create a new user here.
The name of the user, let just call it as Splunk,
we'll give the access type of programmatic access
and within the permissions,
we can go ahead and give a read only access.
Let's go a bit down.
So you have this read only access here,
we'll give this policy and we'll create this user.
So you get a access in secretly,
let's copy this up and let's paste it within the Splunk.
Once done you can can click on add.
Oops, we missed the field name.
Let's just call it as Splunk temp user.
All right, we'll do an add.
Now, one important part to note is that,
if your environment is completely based on AWS,
for example, your Splunk servers
are also in the AWS environment
and you are using the add-on of AWS,
then it is recommended that you make use of IAM role.
So for this demo,
I had created this server specifically in AWS to show you.
So basically one of the ways
in which this add-on can connect to AWS
is through the access and secret key.
So this is good.
However, the better way is to make use of IAM role.
So currently you see you also have a IAM role here.
So if you'll go to the IAM role,
you can go ahead and click on add
and here you can specify the IAM role
of the destination AWS accounts
and you can get away
without using the access and secret keys.
However, we'll keep it simple
and we'll make use of access secret keys
to connect to our resources.
So once our access and secret keys are configured
in the Splunk add-on for Amazon Web Services,
the next important part is,
what is the data that you want to collect?
So if you'll see there are hundreds of services in AWS,
so what exactly you want to collect
and that is what you'll be configuring
within the inputs tab.
Now do note that even with a 4GB RAM server
there is a little lag in the loading of the add-on.
So it might be a little slow but quite good for a demo.
So what you'll need to do
is you'll have to create a new input.
So let's go ahead and click here,
and within you're depending upon the type of input
that you need, you can select the appropriate option.
For simplicity to verify if things are working,
let's go ahead and select the description
and the input type.
Let's use the metadata Boto 3,
within the name let's just call it as temp description
within the AWS account,
you can go ahead and select our access secret key here
which is Splunk temp user.
In case you have a IAM role,
you'll also see a option, something similar to this,
so I'll use the access secret key based approach.
Now in the next step, you'll have to select the region
from which you want to collect the data.
So let's assume that your entire infrastructure
is based on the North Virginia region,
you can select that,
and now you'll have to select
what are the things that you want to collect,
whether you want to see EC2 related data,
IAM S3 buckets, VPCs, and so on.
Now, one more very important part to remember here
is the interval.
Make sure that you do not really set a very low interval.
If you select a low interval
then the Splunk add-on will try to collect the data
at the interval level
and this will not only slow down your Splunk instance
but if your production environment is running in AWS
and you have a very limited amount of API calls available
then your production environment can also go down.
Alright, so generally in AWS,
you have certain amount of API calls that you can make.
However, if you have a very, very big environment,
let's say 500 servers, 1000 servers
and there is huge amount of API calls
that is already happening
and on top of that, using Splunk add-on,
you set a interval like 60 seconds
and Splunk add-on again will make a huge API call.
Then the chances of your production environment going down
is also quite high.
Alright, so just select the interval accordingly.
For our test environments, 3,600 seconds is okay
to begin with.
Once done, you can go ahead and click on save.
All right, so our input is now created.
So now Splunk add-on, with the help of our credentials,
it'll connect to the AWS and it'll start to fetch the data.
So what we'll do,
let's go to these Splunk main console yet again.
We'll go to the search and reporting app.
Let's look into the data summary.
Now at this stage,
you'll see that you have multiple sources of data
as well as multiple source types.
So the source type would be AWS meta data.
However, depending upon the source, like EC2 instance,
the EC2 keeper security group,
you'll get the data accordingly.
So let's look into,
let's say we'll look into the security groups.
Now here it'll basically show you information
related to the security groups
that are available in the North Virginia region.
So you have one group of default,
you have one group called as Launch Wizard seven
and you have one group of Launch Wizard one.
It is also showing you the ingress
as well as the egress permission.
So ingress, you can see the port eight is allowed
and if you explore more,
the port eight is allowed from zero, zero, zero, zero.
Now in fact, this is the same thing
that you can see from the AWS console.
In fact, let's open up the EC2 console here.
So currently I'm in the North Virginia region
and if you'll go to the security group, let's go a bit down.
So you have a security group here.
Similar to what we are seeing in Splunk,
there were three security groups here,
default, Launch Wizard seven and Launch Wizard one.
Now under the Launch Wizard seven,
here it is showing port 80 TCP
allowed for zero, zero, zero, zero.
Let's verify for Launch Wizard seven inbound rules.
You see we have port 80 allowed for zero, zero, zero, zero
and we also have a port 22 allowed for a specific IP.
Let's verify.
So here you'll see we have port 22
and within the IP ranges, let's explore this
and you'll see this is the same IP that you see over here.
That's great.
So I hope with this,
you understood the basics of Splunk add-on for AWS.
We also looked into
some of the important practical considerations
while you are installing the add-ons in Splunk
and after you have completed the practical,
make sure that you go ahead and disable the add-on
as well as disable the access and secret key
so that it does not really get leaked at a later stage.
So from a Splunk add-on,
we can go ahead and disable this specific input.
Along with this, you can also go ahead
and disable the access secret key of the user.
So what you can do is you can directly delete the user
in case it is not really required.
This is always the safer way.
That's great.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Overview of Dashboards and Panels ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video we'll be discussing
about the dashboards and panels.
Now, I still remember many years back
in one of the organization that I was working with
so we had just deployed a brand new Splunk enterprise.
So in that organization the amount
of servers and the accounts were quite big.
So we had more than 500 servers
and more than 100 AWS accounts.
So now I was visiting Singapore.
So Singapore is where the main security team we're based on
and we were showing demo related to threat hunting
and various interesting things that we can do
with Splunk after the data of the organization was added.
And at the end of the demo, one of the head,
he was the head of the security team there,
and he said, Z, can you show us some amount
of dashboards or some amount of visualization there?
So one of the great learnings that I learned
during that day was that irrespective of how optimized
or how big your search query is,
at the end the management team primarily only expects you
to show them dashboards with good visualizations.
And this is what we'll be learning in today's video.
Now at a high level overview, our dashboard basically
contains one or more panels and the dashboard
panels uses searches to generate visualization.
So this can be understood with this diagram as well
where you have a dashboard.
So this dashboard is based on certain purchases
and this dashboard contains multiple panels.
So each panel is based out of certain visualization.
So first is based out of pie chart.
Then you have multiple visualization that you can
make use of and this visualization that are being generated
these are generated using the Splunk SPL searches.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and try it out practically.
So currently within this Splunk enterprise
let's open up the search and reporting app
and within here you have a tab of dashboards.
Let's explore this.
And within here you see that there are multiple dashboards
that are available.
So these dashboards, they come up
with the search and reporting app.
However, the one that we are interested is associated
with the custom dashboard based on our data.
So from here you can go ahead
and quickly create a new dashboard.
Within the dashboard title, let's say access logs dashboard.
And within the next step related
to how do you want to build the dashboard
you have multiple approaches.
You have classic dashboards as well as the dashboard studio.
So the dashboard studio is a newer one.
However, most of the organizations
since dashboard studios a very new feature.
You'll see that the dashboards are built
with the help of classic dashboards
and this is what we'll explore to begin with.
So I'll select the classic dashboard
and I'll click on create.
Great. So now here you see our dashboard is created.
However, as we were discussing
the dashboard contains one or more panel.
So all of these visualization that you see, it is a panel
and this is the reason why it is asking us to add
a new panel to start with.
So if you'll click on add new panel and within here
there are multiple visualization type like pie chart
you have cluster map, you have bar chart
column chart and so on.
So this is one important part to remember.
Along with this the second important part to remember
is that the dashboard contains two approaches
to create new panel, you have a UI, you have a source.
So if you click on source
you basically have a code based approach
in which you can modify things.
So currently you have a code associated with dashboard.
You can also paste the code associated with a panel
and then automatically a new panel will appear within here.
Along with this, as we're discussing in the second point,
dashboard panel use searches to generate visualization.
So all of this visualization, how does the data come from?
From which source type data comes from?
So you need to have a SPL query,
and this is the reason why whenever you go
and add a new panel, let's try and add
a new panel of pie chart.
So within here basically has a option
of search sorting and this is where you add a new SPL query.
Alright, so this is one important part to remember.
However, instead of adding a query from here
what we'll do, we'll first generate a SPL query
and then we'll generate the appropriate visualization.
So within the source here,
let's say source type, of access combined
and we'll generate the visualization for all time.
Great. So a lot of events over here.
Now do note that since we have fast mode at this stage
the fields are not really been extracted.
So let's go ahead and change it to smart mode over here.
Great. So now we have a lot of fields that are available.
Now some of the fields are very interesting
specifically when it comes to analyzing the data.
So let's say one of the fields here is category ID.
So this basically-
Let's say you have a website like Amazon,
and the management team of Amazon really wants to see
which are the products that users are most interested in
or which are the products that users have most visited.
So all of those data are very important
for the ecommerce based website.
And in the category ID
you'll see that the amount of count,
so 26.75% of request
has gone to a category idea of strategy.
So you want to generate a visualization based on that.
So now what you can do is, let's say top
and I'll say category ID.
So it'll basically show you the top category IDs
in all the requests.
So as we're discussing
the highest amount of requests will come to the top.
So the strategy has 1586 count
and the percentage is 26.
Now, similar to top,
if you want to see the lowest one at the top
you can specify rare over here.
So now in rare, the sports which has only 267 count
comes at the top and strategy goes at the bottom.
Alright, so let's change it back to top over here.
So this is our data.
Now what you need, you need a visualization.
So let's explore visualization over here.
Now under visualization
there are multiple visualization types.
The one that we are interested first is the pie chart.
So this is the pie chart.
From here you see it becomes much more easier to analyze
on what is the top category ID, we can identify strategies,
the first, you have arcade and so on.
So we have this specific visualization.
So now what we need,
we need to add this visualization to a central dashboard
so that whenever a management team visits the dashboard
they can see all the visualization associated
with the things that they want to look into.
So now what you can do is you can click on save as.
Now you can either create a new dashboard from here
or you can add it to the existing dashboard.
Now since you have already created existing dashboard
and the dashboard is access log dashboards,
within the panel title you can say top category
products and we click on save to dashboard.
Great. So our dashboard is created.
Let's quickly explore that.
So you see we have our first panel
as part of dashboard that is available.
Now let me quickly click on edit
and if you now look into the source
the first one was associated with our dashboard
and now you see you have a top category product.
The source are panel name,
and this panel has a search query associated with it.
So the search query source type access combined
followed by top category ID.
So if you want to quickly identify the search query
based on which this visualization is based on
you can quickly do that.
Great. So now let's go back to events over here.
Let's remove and switch back to our main query
based on source type.
Now the next field that we can explore is the client type.
Let's say you want to see how many requests
based on the client IP have been appearing over here.
So now you can quickly do a stats count
by let's say client IP.
And now under the statistics you'll basically see
these stats over here,
so you have a client type E1073
and the amount of count based on which the requests
were made were 138s.
Then you have 98, 89 and so on.
So now you can also generate visualization based on that.
So from here you can also identify
that these are the four primary IPs
and then you have the other IPs.
Now the better visualization
than the pie chart would be column chart.
So column chart can be informative over here.
So if you hover over this
it basically shows you the count as well as the client IP.
So this is a good visualization.
Let's go ahead and save this to the existing dashboard,
the dashboard image access logs, and the panel title,
let's say list of client IP addresses.
Let's save this to dashboard.
And from our dashboard, let's refresh this.
And now you see you have two panels.
One is based on pie chart
and second is based on column chart.
So this is great.
Now on top of this
there are a lot of interesting things that can be done.
Let's explore a few examples.
So here you have a export button.
So let's say that you have multiple dashboards
and you want to send the visualization
to the management team via email.
So now what you can do is you can quickly do an export
and you can export this to PDF.
So yeah, you have a PDF that got downloaded.
Let's open this up.
And now you see you have a great PDF
with all of the required data.
That's great. So this is one part.
Let's also do a edit over here.
Now one of the interesting things here
is you can quickly switch
from a light theme to a dark theme.
Note everyone has a different preference
on what theme that they want.
However, if you select a dark theme
let me quickly do a save, let's refresh this.
And now you see the entire dashboard is based on dark theme.
Now again, I generally prefer dark theme specifically
when you have multiple dashboards
and you have everything that has been projected in a big TV
and the security team author soc team is monitoring that.
So this is much better to look into.
So along with that, let's quickly do an edit.
So within here you'll see
that the first panelist, top category products,
then you have a list of client IP addresses and so on.
Now what if the use case states
that you want both of them side by side?
So now you have to scroll
and this is not something that you are looking forward for.
So this is also very easy.
So you can just click here
and hover it to the right hand side.
And now you see both of them are side by side.
So let's click quickly, do a save
and now this is much more better
than scrolling down and looking into the data.
Great. Along with this
one more important thing I wanted to show you.
So let's say you want to change this specific query.
So you have a top category products
you do not really need the top category products.
Now you need a product ID.
So for example, let's go back to the events over here.
Let's go back to the base query.
And within here you have something called as the product ID.
So now the management team wants to see the product ID.
So now there are multiple ways in which you can change this.
So you can either change it at the source level
so you can change this from category ID to product ID.
Or if you're going through UI
you can also quickly edit a search.
Let's change it to product ID.
All right, let's do an apply.
And now you see you have the product ID over here
and the same thing would be reflected at this source.
So you have a product ID.
However, let's change this back to category ID
since this was just for a demo purpose.
Interesting. So no results form.
So maybe something that we had done.
Let's quickly verify.
Yes, so this was a capital I.
Let's save this.
And great.
So now we have two great looking panels
within our dashboards.
so I'll really encourage you to go ahead and try this out.
This is very interesting
and this will also help you create great visualization
for Splunk based on the data that you have.
So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Building Dashboard Inputs - Time Range Picker ---

-: Hey everyone
and welcome back.
Now, in the previous video,
we were discussing the basics
of dashboards and panels,
where we had created our dashboard
callers access log dashboard.
And we had a pie chart and a column chart here.
And we also had a a nice little dark theme.
Now, typically if you look into the dashboard,
so currently I have Splunk app
for AWS installed.
Now, within this AWS app,
there are a lot of different type of panels.
You have geolocation based,
along with that you also have inputs here.
So, one of the input that you see is the time range,
where if you want to see the data
from last seven days,
or you might also want to see the data
from last 24 hours.
So, you see, after you changed
from seven days to 24 hours,
everything got refreshed.
Let's try it out once again.
Let's say 30 days.
So, you see now everything is getting refreshed.
So, time range is one of the aspects
which is very important.
And same goes with the dashboards over here.
Now, since we have top category products,
it is important for management
to see like, what are the top category products
from last 24 hours,
maybe last seven days, last 30 days.
So this is the reason,
why having time range picker is important
for the dashboards that you design.
And in today's video,
we will be looking into
how we can create time range picker.
Now, in order to do that,
what you'll have to do is,
you'll need to go to the Edit button
and you have various panels over here.
Now, in the panels you have various things like,
cluster map, filter gauge, pie chart,
area chart, column chart.
So, this is something
that you can either add it from here,
or you can create a SPL query
and you can add it from the Splunk search.
Now, a panel is something
that we are not interested in,
because we already have it here.
So, we are interested in input.
Now, there are various inputs
which are present over here.
You have text input, dropdown, checkbox,
and one among them is time.
So, we'll design a time range,
which is something similar
to what you see in the AWS app.
So, we'll go to Input,
we'll select Time.
Now, within Year,
you see you already have a time presets.
So, these are the built-in presets
that you can use.
And what you can do here,
you need to go to Edit.
Now, within Edit you see you have option,
what is the default value?
So, the default value is 24 hours.
Now, a same goes with a Splunk app for AWS.
Let's go to Splunk app for AWS here.
And you see, by default the time range
is taking up seven days.
So, this is the default value
that is associated
with the time range picker.
Now, you can put 24 hours,
or you can put it something
which is according to what you intend to do
and you can click on search on change the search
engine basically like whenever someone changes from 24
hours to all time.
Because here when someone changes from seven days
to 30 days, all all the dashboards gets refreshed.
So this is what we intend to do
and you can click on apply and you can click on save.
So now you have that timeframe speaker.
Now if I try and change from 24 hours to four hours
you see it is not really affecting anything.
Now the reason why it is not affecting anything is
because this is just a individual timeframe speaker.
It is not connected to the dashboards that you have.
So basically all the dashboards that you have over year
it needs to be connected
to the time range speaker that you have created
within your dashboard.
And this is very important.
So we need to edit this dashboard
so that they can be connected to the time range speaker.
So we'll go to edit here
and again to the time range speaker, let's click on edit.
And there is a Feel Call Less token.
And let's say that I'll say P I M I N G
and the default timing is 24 US and I'll click on Save.
So once I've applied it
next thing that you need to do is you need to click
on edit search and the time range is used Time Picker.
Instead of that we'll use Shared Time Picker.
And we had given the token value of timing here.
So we'll select this and we'll click on apply.
And same goes with the second dashboard.
We'll click on a search
we'll select the time range as shared Time picker timing
we'll click on Apply and we'll click on save.
Perfect. So now you have clicked on Saved.
You see now the search is really waiting for input.
It does not really find any data from the last 30 days.
So what we'll do will change from last 30 days to all time.
And you see it's still not present to where.
So what do you basically need to do is you, you just
have to do a refresh once.
And if you go to all time,
you see the dashboards are appearing.
Now if you go back to 24 hours, the dashboards went away
because there are no real data in the last 24 hours.
So this is what Time Range Speaker is all about.
Now just to make something similar to this
you'll see you have a time range over year.
It becomes easier for people to understand what this is.
So if you want to add it to a year, you can quickly do that.
You can click on edit like and in the label you can say Yes
time range, and you can click on apply.
And now if you do a set, you see you have a time
range over here.
Now one more aspect that I wanted to show you is
that you can also include a submit button.
So submit button is
something that you can see
from input and you can click on submit.
So this is something that you might have seen many times
in your Splunk.
So basically what you might want is that you do not wonder
if someone clicks here, it should automatically do it.
So this is where the submit button really comes into picture
and maybe depending upon how would you like to design
you can add a submit button here.
Now in case, if you will see, let me quickly do a edit.
I'll, I'll say Search on change.
I'll deselect this and I'll click
on apply and I'll do a say.
So now if I do a all time year, you will see
that there are no changes that you find in the dashboard.
So once I do a submit
then you see everything comes on dashboard.
So this is the importance of a submit button.
Quite helpful.
It really depends
on how would you like your dashboards to be.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope you understood the basics
of a Time Ring speaker and how important it is typically
in the dashboards that you design.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Building Dashboard Inputs - Text Box ---

-: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
So continuing our learning journey
towards the dashboards and panels,
today we'll be discussing about the newer type of input
which is a text-based input.
So let's go ahead and quickly do an edit
and within here you have a input type of text.
So let's go ahead and explore that.
Now before we go ahead and use this input first,
let's go ahead and create SPL query
that this input would use.
So from a newer tab, opening the Splunk Enterprise
main console, we'll go to Search and Reporting app.
Let's change the time range to all time
and we'll be exploring a newer type of log source type
which is linux_secure for today's dashboard.
So multiple events are available here.
Let's go ahead and create a statistics out of it.
So I'll say stats count by
and we want to count by, so there are multiple
interesting fields that are available here.
So let's say source and user.
Let's do a quick search.
So we should see the source, so this is the source IP
as well as the user and the count associated.
So this is the query that we'll be using.
Let's go ahead and save this to our existing dashboard
of access logs and within the panel title,
lets just call it as Linux Secure Logs
and we'll save to dashboard.
Perfect, so let's go ahead and view the dashboard here.
Let's change the time range to all time
so that our entire dashboard is visible, great.
So now here we are seeing the source,
we are seeing the user as well as we are seeing the count.
So this is a pretty straightforward thing
that we already understand by now.
Now, discussing about the text-based input
that we were discussing,
so whenever I go ahead and add a text-based input,
so let's take a simple example.
So let's say you have a source,
you have a user and you have a count.
Now let's say you want one more column over here.
Let me quickly show you.
Within here, under the interesting fields here,
you see that there are multiple interesting fields.
We have currently made use of user
and we have currently made use of source.
However, there can be other interesting fields
like the SRC port, SSSD protocol and so on.
So let's say that what you want is just by referring
the interesting field within the text box,
that column should also appear within the dashboard.
So that is what we intend to do.
And this is something that you can do over here.
So let's say that we are interested to see the SRC port.
So what you should be able to do if a user types SRC port
within the dashboard, there should be one more column
like user SRC port along with count.
Alright, so that is the use case.
So let me quickly refresh this page
since this is the older one.
So now we see that there are three panels.
Now, let's go ahead and add a new input of text.
Now within here, let's click on Edit.
The token, let's just call it as Linux Secure
and label this, call it as secure dynamic field, all right?
Once there, you can click on Apply, let's do a save.
Now, at this stage you have a secure dynamic field
and within here, if I do a source_port,
which is basically here.
So you have multiple source code that are visible
and if I click on Submit,
now this should not really affect anything as now.
So what you need to do is you have to associate
this text input with the Linux secure logs panel.
So now what needs to be done?
Let's go ahead and quickly do and edit.
Within here, let's edit this search and let's also specify.
Let's quickly verify the token over here.
So the token is Linux secure, I'll copy this up.
Let's edit the search and here I'll specify Linux secure.
Alright, so this is like a variable.
Let's do an apply.
Now at this stage you see SRC_port
is also appearing similar to what we had added here.
Let's do a save.
Great, so this seems to be working.
Let's remove this, let's do a submit.
You see, the SRC port went away.
To test if things are working with other fields,
let's try the SSSD protocol.
So let's say SSSD protocol.
I'll click on Submit
and you see the SSSD deep protocol also appears.
So this is the high level overview
about the text-based input.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Building Dashboard Inputs - Drop down ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video, we were discussing
about the basics of text input
and the features that it might provide
in designing a dashboard and a panel.
Now, in today's video,
we'll be exploring one more input of type dropdown.
Now, one of the things associated with a text-based input
that can be considered as a disadvantage is
that you need to know the name of the field beforehand.
So for example,
there can be multiple interesting fields over here.
In fact, this is a smaller data.
But if the data is larger,
then the amount of field extraction is much more huge.
And if you want to see a specific data,
you need to know the exact name associated with the field
and type it to it.
So this is something that can be a little challenging.
So in order to avoid that, you can make use of a dropdown
that contains this field names pre-populated.
So let's quickly explore that.
So what I'll do, I'll go ahead
and remove the text-based input that we had created
and we'll create one more input of type dropdown.
And within here, let's just call it as dropdown
just for easy understanding.
And the token, let's this refer it as dropdown.
Alright, now if you'll go a bit down,
you have certain static options over here.
So on the left is basically the name
that you want to give, vendor dropdown appears.
So let's say SSSD protocol, will add few more.
Let's explore what are the other things you have process.
So let's just call as process detail.
And within here I'll just specify the process.
For the SSSD protocol, the field is SSSD_protocol.
Let's just settle with two for the time being,
and we'll go ahead and do and apply.
Similarly, we'll go ahead and edit the search.
This time, instead of Linux secure,
let's change it to dropdown.
Once then, we'll do an apply. And let's click on save.
All right, so now if you look into the dropdown,
you see you have multiple dropdowns
as is the protocol process detail.
Let's open up the process details. Let's do a submit.
And within here, you see the process details appears.
So now let's change to SSSD protocol.
And you have a SSSD protocol
that has been appearing over here.
So I hope you understood the difference
between a text input and the dropdown waste input
and the benefits that the dropdown provides over here.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Directory Structure of Splunk - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about the Splunk directory structure.
The learning that we are going to gain in today's video is going to be very useful throughout your Splunk
journey.
So it is very important to carefully look into what are the things that we are discussing today.
So whenever you change some configuration file of Splunk to change some aspect of it, or when you want
to restart the Splunk or Splunk is not really working as expected.
In all of those scenarios and many others, the learning of today's video of directory structure will
prove to be useful.
So with this, let's go ahead and discuss about it now.
Whenever you install Splunk, there is a specific directory structure that it creates.
And in each directory there are certain files binaries that are available.
So it is important for us to understand what are the directories that Splunk creates internally and
in what directories.
What are the type of files that it adds.
Now everything starts with Splunk home and Splunk is installed in the root directory, which is often
referred to as Splunk Home.
So this you can consider to be variable because you can install Splunk in windows, you can install
Splunk in Linux, etc..
So this Splunk home variable over here, the value associated with it will change.
For example the Splunk home will be opt Splunk in Linux instances.
However, if you're installing Splunk directly on windows, then Splunk Home would be C drive program
files.
Splunk.
So inside the Splunk home the directory structure will be similar across the operating systems.
Before we proceed further, let's go ahead and look into the directory structure at an overview.
Then we'll be discussing about what these directories are all about.
Now for today's demo I am connected to a Linux server or it can also be a Docker container.
It does not really matter.
But whenever you run the ls l command on the root, you will see that there is a specific directory
structure.
You have various folders that are created in Linux root.
It can be bin boot devices, etc. etc. so bin generally contains the Linux binaries like the LS command
that you run or the CD command mkdir command.
All of those root binaries will be there in bin.
Then you have the boot.
Boot generally contains the kernel, it contains the boot loader configuration and so on.
Dev is devices etc. is where the configuration files are present.
Then you also have home where the home directories of users are present.
You have temp, you have SRP, etc. again you have lot of folders that are available and in each folder
you will have a specific set of files.
Now again this is something that we are discussing from the perspective of Linux.
Let me give you one example over here.
Let's go to the bin folder.
And if I do ls you see these are all of the binaries that are available.
So you have the wait command that you can run.
You run the command.
So all of these binaries are stored over here.
So this is a typical Linux based directory structure.
Now we are more interested in Splunk.
As soon as you install Splunk in a Linux server the installation happens in the opt directory in Splunk
folder.
All right.
So if I do a list over here you see in the opt Splunk, this is how the directory structure looks like.
Or if I just do ls hyphen L over here.
This is the exact structure again very similar to Linux.
You see you have the bin folder over here.
You have the etc. you have include you have lib you have opt, you have Cher, you have var etc. and
each folder has its own set of importance that we are going to discuss in today's video.
However, one thing to note over here is that everything gets installed and configured inside the opt
Splunk from Linux perspective.
Now, as we were discussing, depending upon the operating system where you install Splunk.
The Splunk home will change.
So opt Splunk is for Linux C drive program files is for windows.
Let me also show you windows.
I have installed Splunk on my windows to show you the directory structure there as well.
So in windows over here, if I go to C drive within here, we'll go to Program files.
Within.
Here we have a Splunk folder.
Let's open this now here also you see you have bin you have etc. you have live, you have opt you have
etc..
So the directory structure is similar to that of Linux over here.
Now it is important for us to understand what goes inside each of the directory.
Now if you understand the directory structure of Linux, it will become simpler.
For example, in Linux the binaries are primarily stored in bin and sbin.
Similarly in Splunk.
Also, the binaries of Splunk are stored in bin, the configuration files are stored in, etc. and so
on.
Now, just for simplicity, I have also added a screenshot of the root of Splunk which is Opt Splunk
and this screenshot shows various folders that are available.
This will help you during the revision time.
Now let's understand some of the most important folders of all that you will be interacting with on
a regular basis.
Now, there are three important directories that you should be aware of, and you will be using these
directories for interacting with Splunk or modifying some aspect of Splunk behavior regularly.
So the first important folder here is bin.
So bin contains all of the Splunk executables command line tools as well as scripts.
And this is the home to Splunk CLI.
So if you want to interact with Splunk through Splunk CLI, bin is the folder that you have to use.
For example, if you want to restart Splunk through CLI, then you have to go to the bin folder because
the Splunk binary is stored over here.
The second very important folder is the Etsy.
So this is the most important directory for administrators because all of the configuration files are
stored over here.
So whenever you want to change some behavior of Splunk, whenever you want to say modify some add on
configuration, all of those things you will be doing it in the etc. directory.
And the third very important folder is the var where again it contains all of the important data including
your index data.
So whatever data that you upload in Splunk, whatever data that gets added, all of those data resides
in the var directory.
So this is also a very critical area that you should be aware of.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and explore this directory at a high level overview so that we can see what type of contents
are present and at a later part of the course based on the requirements, we are going to modify a lot
of things, and we are going to explore these directories in great detail.
Now, just for simplicity.
What we are going to do.
I am going to open this directory structure with VS code.
Again, if you don't have it, it does not really matter.
Aim is to understand the structure.
Let's open this.
Great.
So here you see that there are multiple files like bin, SC, lib, opt, etc..
Now bin we were discussing that it contains the binaries.
So it also contains the scripts.
But the main important part is the binaries.
So if you will see there are multiple binaries that are available.
Since this is Splunk install on windows you will have a binary with.
Exe extension.
So Bloomex b2.
Again this is quite useful and there are various other binaries that are available.
One of the important binaries that you will be interacting with in a longer term is related to Splunk.
So you see the Splunk dot.
Exe binary is very important whenever you want to restart Splunk, whenever you want to stop Splunk,
etc..
The Splunk dot x binary is something that you will be interacting with.
Let me also quickly show you this from the perspective of Linux.
Now in a Linux system I am already in the opt Splunk.
So in the bin directory in fact let's go there.
I'll go to the bin directory.
And here if I run the ls l command you see there are various binaries that are available.
One of the important binary is Splunk.
As we were discussing if you want to see the status, if you want to start, stop, etc., this is the
binary that you will be interacting with.
So what you can do, you can just say opt Splunk bin.
The name of the binary is Splunk and you can run command like status.
It will show you the status of Splunk.
If you run the command of stop, it will stop the Splunk.
If you run command of restart, it will restart the Splunk etc..
So this important Splunk binary is available in bin and there are other important binaries also that
are available.
We'll be discussing that slowly as part of this course.
Great.
So I hope you understood the importance of the bin folder.
The second very important folder over here is the Etsy.
So let's go ahead and close this.
Now we are going to explore the etc..
So when I open this you will see that there are a lot of configuration files that are available over
here.
And all of the apps that you installed as part of Splunk, they go inside this.
So whatever Apache app, nginx app, Linux app, etc., everything will be available as part of the
apps folder inside Etsy.
The license configuration is also present over here.
And one of the important part over here is the system.
So in the system also there are a lot of configurations file.
You see you have conf conf.
There are so many configuration file.
This is related to authentication, etc. so depending upon what behavior you want to change of Splunk,
you will have to modify the configuration file.
Or if you are changing some settings at Splunk GUI level.
Behind the scenes it will modify the configuration file as well.
So there are a lot of configuration files as you can see that are available inside the etc..
So whenever you want to modify any aspects of Splunk, sometimes you will be able to do it directly
through GUI, but not all of the time.
Many times you will have to directly edit the configuration files that are available in etc. through
the CLI and then restart the Splunk.
So all of these things will be doing at spark of the later aspects of this course, but it is important
for us to understand the directory structure first.
Alright, so etc. is something again that is very important, specifically when you want to change some
aspects of Splunk or you want to install add ons, Don't work with licenses, etc. this is the etc.
and the third important directory is var.
Now before we go ahead and look into where, let me show you etc. from the perspective of Linux also,
so that we are clear.
So currently we are in the bin folder.
So let's go back.
Now if I do a ls you will see that we are going into the etc. folder.
Now when I do ls over here within the etc. you have apps, you have various other files that are available.
One of the important directories over here is the system.
So for example if I go to etc. we are already in etc. if I go to system and if I say go to default.
You see there are so many conf files that are available.
This is something that we saw from Visual Studio also.
Basically, the structure of Windows and Linux in terms of Splunk is very similar.
So all of these configuration files you will be able to edit depending on what aspect of Splunk you
want to modify.
Now, the third important aspect of Splunk is the var directory.
This is very important.
Ideally, you should not be messing up with the var directory, because this is where all of your index
data is stored.
In case if you modify some things in there that you should not be doing, your data can be corrupted
or lost.
This is very important part to remember.
For example, let's go to the var.
So within the where you have the lib again there are a lot of folders.
And within here you will have all of the indexed data that you might have in Splunk.
So this is one important part to note.
Now again let me quickly show you one thing.
Again, you might not be able to see this similar workflow in your Splunk.
So just wanted to show you.
So in the default DB over here.
In fact let me go back to Splunk again.
We are doing this just so that we get a better understanding.
Now in Splunk currently I have some data that is indexed over here for understanding purpose.
And this data is hello world one.
Hello world two.
Hello world three.
Now this is stored as part of the Index of Main.
Now we'll be discussing about index at a later stage.
But one thing that I wanted to show you.
In fact again you might not be able to replicate it, but if you're able to do that is good.
So within here, if I go to indexes, the main index if you see the location is default db.
So whatever data that you store as part of this index it will be stored over here.
Default db db.
So within here you have a folder of default db.
Then you have the db.
And here you will be able to see the potential files that might be present associated with a specific
index.
So again we are going to discuss about this in great detail.
You have cold DB.
You have data model.
Also let's see if we are able to see the contents of the file.
Now, the reason why we are not able to see the content of the files is because this is a windows based
structure.
However, this specific Splunk is running inside Linux.
So let me also show you from the perspective of Linux.
Let's go back.
So currently I am in the opt Splunk.
If I'll show you I'm in the opt Splunk.
Let's go to var in var.
If I do a ls we'll go to Lib.
Inside lib we have Splunk.
And within here you will have the default db.
Let's try to find it.
You have the default DB.
And inside here let's go to db.
Let's clear the screen I'll do an ls.
And here you see you have a folder of hot.
So this is where your data would be present over here.
So if you do a cat on raw data It is a directory.
That is fine.
Let's go to raw data over here.
Now you have a zero.
Let's see if this is a file or a directory.
This is a file.
So when I do a cat on zero you will be able to see certain aspects of this file.
For example you see you have tmp read only dot txt source type is breakable text.
You are able to see hello world one as well as the Hello world two as well as the Hello World three.
Very similar to how you are able to see it.
In fact, let's go back.
Hello world, hello world to Hello world three.
So all of this data you are able to see in a specific file in the where.
So that is the reason why you should not be touching where unless and until it is required.
We are going to touch where for some very specific configurations at the later part of the course.
But for today's video, the reason why we are having all of these demos is so that you understand the
Splunk directory structure from a practical point of view, and we are going to discuss in more detail
subsequently.
So before we conclude, one important point to note is that for 99% of your administrative tasks, you
will be interacting with only two main directories, which is etc. and var etc. is where all of your
configuration files are present, where is where you will play with indexes based on the requirements,
and also you'll be interacting with bin.
For example, if you want to go ahead and start restart stop Splunk maybe little bit of troubleshooting.
This is where you'll be interacting with Splunk.
One more thing before we conclude where is also important folder for troubleshooting Splunk.
Because this is where the Splunk log files are present.
If things are not really working in Splunk then the log files are present in the var directory.
Let me also show you.
Now in fact We'll just minimize var lib Splunk.
Now there is also a folder of log.
So inside where you have a folder of log then you go to Splunk.
And here you will see there are multiple log files that are available.
So if things are not working you can open one of the log files for example Splunk logs.
Splunk dot log is very important in the troubleshooting aspects.
So here you will be able to see all the aspects over here.
If things are not working maybe Splunk is not starting.
It is not behaving as expected.
The Splunk dot log is a very important file.
Again, there are multiple log files that are available.
Will be discussing about the importance of log files at a later stage.
But the main aim here is that the log files are also stored in var log in Splunk home.
So this is important point to note.
Great.
So this is the high level overview of Splunk directory structure.
I hope this video has proved to be useful.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Splunk Configuration Precedence - New ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about configuration file precedence.
Again, this is a very important topic.
And whenever you are altering some behavior of Splunk then the learning as part of today's video is
going to be very useful.
So with this let's get started.
Now at this stage we understand the directory structure of Splunk.
There are multiple files and folders that are available like bin SC you have opt, share, etc..
Now when it comes to configuration files, all of them are primarily stored in the folder of SC over
here.
Now one thing to note is that Splunk software uses the configuration files, which are primarily ending
with an extension of dot conf to determine nearly every aspect of this behavior.
And where are these conf files primarily stored?
They are primarily stored in SC.
So before we proceed further, let's go ahead and verify whether they are present in SC post, which
will be discussing about the configuration file precedence now in Splunk over here.
If I do a PWD I'm in the opt Splunk in the opt Splunk.
As we were discussing there is a folder of Etsy.
So if I go to Etsy and if I go to system for an example, and if I do a list over here, there are some
other folders like default, you have metadata, etc. so we are more interested in default.
So if I just do ls hyphen l on default over here.
You see there are so many configuration files that are available.
Each configuration file will allow you to alter some aspects of Splunk.
For example, let's say if I do a cat on default, say server dot conf.
You see, there are so many configurations that are available based on the requirement, you can change
the configuration and some aspect of Splunk will change.
Great.
Now that we understand the primary location of dot conf files, let's go a step further to understand
one very important point.
And the point is a Splunk platform deployment can have many copies of the same configuration file.
This is very important for example in Splunk Home which is opt Splunk in Linux.
You have a sec.
Inside Etsy we saw that we have a system folder.
And inside system folder you have default and you have local.
So it can happen that there is a file called as server dot conf in the default, and a file with the
same name server dot conf in local.
So this is what it means by the first point where Splunk can have many copies of the same configuration
file in multiple directories.
Now, in such case where you have the same file name with probably small different configuration, which
one will take higher priority.
So whenever you edit the configuration file, it is important for us to understand which one will take
the higher precedence.
Let me also show you so that this will give us better clarity.
Now first I will show you this from the perspective of windows because it is slightly easier to visualize.
Then we will discuss from the perspective of Linux.
So I'll quickly open this because this Splunk is installed in my Windows in program files.
I'll quickly open this with VSCode.
Great.
As we were discussing the configuration file primarily as stored in Etsy within Etsy, one of the very
important folder is the system.
Alright, in system we saw that we had the default, and in default there are multiple configuration
files that are available.
Same thing is there in the Linux also.
This is the default and you also have the local.
As you can see now local also has multiple configuration file.
Let's take an example where you see in local there is a configuration file called as server dot conf
debconf.
And each configuration file has certain settings that are added over here.
Just remember the name of the file server dot conf and debconf in a very similar way in the default
folder.
Also, if I go a bit down you will have files with similar name.
You see you have server dot conf that is available and if I go further down you also have debconf that
is available.
So multiple folders have file with same names that are available.
And the question is if there are files with same names and maybe same or slightly different configuration,
then which file will take the higher priority is something that we are going to discuss in today's video.
Now, one point that you have to keep a note is that when we discuss about local and default.
In such cases, the local will take the highest priority.
The default will take the lowest priority.
Local always takes the highest priority.
Just remember this.
Let's take an example to understand it.
So what?
It says that in system local directory there is a specific configuration called as server name.
And the value here is Splunk local.
And in the system default directory there is a specific configuration, the same configuration in fact
which is server name.
And here the value is Splunk default.
So Splunk Splunk local.
This has Splunk default.
So which one Splunk will take as the highest priority.
The answer is the local one.
So the final value that Splunk will use is going to be the Splunk Local.
This is important point to note.
Let's in fact test it out so that we understand this from practical point of view.
Now if you will see in the server conf you have a specific configuration of server name, so this is
the name of the server.
Now since I have installed Splunk in Windows, you have this desktop name over here.
But we are going to discuss it from the perspective of Linux.
However, just note that the server name is present in a file called as server dot conf.
Now I have a fresh installation of Splunk that is available now inside the settings over here.
If you go to server controls, in fact we had to go to Server Settings within here.
If you go to General settings, you see you have Splunk server name that is available.
You can modify from here.
However, we are going to discuss it from the perspective of CLI.
So this specific setting, if you want to modify you have to open a file called as server dot conf.
Now this one two B-4a.
This is the default hostname of the Linux server or the Docker container in which you have installed
Splunk, for example.
In my case, the Splunk is installed in a container, and the hostname of the container is this two
b for a.
And this is the reason why the Splunk name is also taken directly from here.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go to opt.
We'll go to Splunk.
We know where the configuration files are present you have etc. and inside etc. system is one of the
very important folders within.
Here we have the default and we have the local.
So when I do a cat on default say server dot conf.
Within here if I go a bit up you will see.
Again there are a lot of configurations, so whenever you are editing manually through CLI it can be
a little tough to go through.
What is the configuration that is available.
But just for simplicity, what you can do, you can do a grip on say a server name.
And here you see the server name is the host name.
So whatever hostname is available as part of the system it will take that.
So this is the value in the default server dot conf.
Now whenever you want to modify any aspect of Splunk this is very important point to note.
Never modify it in the default folder, always modify it in the local.
For example default configuration files.
What happens is many a times when you upgrade Splunk, the default configuration files will also be
upgraded.
So whatever changes that you might have written, those changes will go away.
So never, never modify anything in the default folder configuration files always modify it in the local
whenever you upgrade Splunk, the modifications that you had done in the local.
This will not be touched.
So this is a safe keeping measure so that your Splunk behavior in production does not get modified.
All right.
Now in the local what we are going to do in the server dot conf, we are going to have a different value
and we are going to see on how Splunk will override it.
So as we were discussing in the default server dot conf, it is the hostname that is taking the precedence.
Now let's verify this in the local server dot conf also.
Local server dot conf.
Here you have the hard coded value of the Splunk hostname.
Now what we are going to do.
We are going to modify this value in the local server dot conf.
And we are going to see on how it changes the value in the GUI also.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a VI on this and the server name over here.
I'll just press I so that we can edit it.
Let's just say Splunk local.
I'll will just save this file.
Once the file is saved, you can restart the splunk in order to restart the Splunk.
You can either do it through GUI or the CLI.
We'll take up the CLI so that we understand things in a better terms.
So in Splunk the binaries are stored in opt.
So you have to go to the opt folder opt Splunk bin.
Then you have the Splunk binary.
And now you can run the restart command.
So this will go ahead and restart Splunk.
So let's quickly wait for this to happen.
Great.
So our Splunk web interface is restarted.
This is good.
So let me quickly relog into Splunk.
Great.
Now if you see in Splunk server name this time we are seeing Splunk Local.
So I hope you understood on how when we modify the configuration files, the settings as part of Splunk
will also get modified.
You can also change it from the GUI, but not all of the configurations are available to be modified
through GUI.
So it is important for us to understand because everything can be modified through CLI.
So it is important that we get used to CLI and you will be using the CLI based approach very extensively
in production.
Splunk.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now let's do one thing.
We were discussing about this example where the default directory has a specific name.
The local directory has a specific name which one Splunk will use.
Let's also verify this.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's verify the path.
Currently we are opt, Splunk etc. system.
Now one interesting thing that I wanted to show you is that when you look into the default, you see
the permissions.
The permissions are four, four, four which is read, read and read.
So by default you will not be able to modify this file.
And this is as a safe keeping.
Splunk knows that this file should not be modified, but if the user does not know and if he modifies,
and later if he upgrades the splunk, then all of those modifications will go away.
So just for safekeeping.
Splunk has changed the permission to read so you will not be able to modify unless you change the permission.
Let me also quickly show you.
So when I say VI default then let's say server dot conf.
All right.
Now here also they have written do not edit this file.
Changes to default files will be lost on update and are difficult to manage and support.
On top of this, when I press I so that we can modify immediately.
You see we got a warning.
What is a warning?
Changing a read only file so you will not be able to modify it unless you make it read and write.
Let me also quickly do that.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to change the permission of the file to say 644.
four.
And what is the file name?
The file name is going to be server dot conf.
All right.
You should not do this in production.
But just for better understanding I am doing that now.
If I just do ls hyphen l on the default folder.
Let's see.
Server dot conf very server dot conf.
This is one.
So here we have added read and write capabilities so that we can modify this specific file.
Great.
So let's do one thing.
Let's do a VI on default server dot conf.
And now you will be able to modify.
Let me just press I so that we can enter the modification mode.
Here I'll specify Splunk default.
All right.
Let's go ahead and save the changes.
So now if I do cat on default server dot conf.
I'll do a grip on server name.
here.
The server name is Splunk.
Default.
In a very similar way.
If I open the local server dot conf here we have Splunk Local.
Now the question is which one will take the higher precedence?
As we have studied, the local will take the higher precedence.
However, it is important for us to test.
So let's go ahead and test it.
I'll say opt.
Splunk will restart the Splunk I'll go to bin.
We'll go to Splunk and we'll quickly restart the Splunk instance here.
Great.
Splunk is restarted.
This means we'll have to log in again.
Let's do that.
So now you see the Splunk server name is still Splunk Local.
Now what we are going to do we are going to remove this specific directory from the local which is the
server name.
So they will only be one server name in the default directory.
And then we'll see what is the precedence that happens in such cases.
So let's clear the screen.
Let's go ahead and we'll modify the local.
Server dot conf.
Within here you have this server name directive.
As you can see what I am going to do I am going to press double D like d two times so that we can delete
that specific entry and we'll save the change.
Now we are going to restart the Splunk again.
So at this stage you only have one directory of server name.
In the default.
You don't have anything in local.
So this time we'll see the behavior again.
Great.
Splunk is restarted again.
Let's log into Splunk again.
And this time you see the Splunk server name is Splunk default.
Great.
So I hope you have started to understand on how there can be multiple configuration files with same
name and similar configuration with different values, and how Splunk will go ahead and prioritize one
file over other.
This is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now that we understand the basic.
There is one more additional step that we have to get used to it, which states that the configuration
file can also be present in the apps folder.
So we had discussed about etc. system default and local, but there is also a folder of apps inside
the apps.
Also there can be default and local.
Many times what happens is you install Splunk apps from the marketplace.
So this apps can also override some of the configuration.
So in the apps also you can have say a file called as debconf with a slightly different configuration
value.
So in such case the precedence slightly changes.
For example, note that the system local directory it always takes the highest priority.
Then the app local directory, then the app default directory, then the system default directory.
So system default is the lowest system local is the highest.
So in this case there is a debconf in system default as well as the system local.
Same thing with app default and app local.
So when it comes to priority which is the highest priority.
Highest priority is system local.
This is the highest priority.
Then you have the apps local.
Then you have the apps default and the last is the system's default.
So this is one important point to note.
Let me show you where do you find this apps folder in Splunk.
Let me show it from the perspective of VS code.
So it's a little easier.
So we were discussing that in the etc..
So in the etc. we had a system and inside system we had default and local.
So generally when you install certain apps Those apps will be present in the apps folder.
All right.
So within the apps folder also you see you have default.
In the default you can have various inputs dot conf props dot conf etc..
So same files like props dot conf.
You will also be able to see or inputs dot conf.
You will also be able to see in the.
Let's go back in the system's default.
So in the defaults let's see.
You see you have inputs dot conf that is also available here.
And you have props dot corner that is also available here.
So same file name is available in apps as well as the default.
So this is how the configuration precedence would work.
So in case if you want to override something you can do it at apps level.
So many times what happens is whenever you install some add ons and apps in Splunk, they will override
certain aspects of the configuration by adding the conf file inside the app's default or app's local
based on the requirement.
So this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now, before we conclude, let's discuss one of the last pointer for today's video.
It has gone a bit long.
However, this is a very important learning that we are having over here.
So the name of slide is how app directory name affects the precedence.
This is also slightly important.
So what it says that when determining the priority in the global context, Splunk software uses the
lexicographical order to determine priority among collection of app directories.
So generally what happens is Splunk Marketplace has hundreds of apps.
So what happens if you install 10 or 20 apps in production.
And these 1020 apps will have the local or the default folder with similar configurations like web.config.
Conf proc conf will be present in multiple apps folder as well.
So in such cases there is a precedence that takes place here.
For example, file in an apps directory called as a will have a higher priority than files in the apps
directory B, and so on.
So this is one point to note.
Along with that, all apps starting with an uppercase letter have precedence over apps starting with
a lowercase letter.
For example, capital A has precedence over Z, but z has precedence over a smaller case A, so this
is also one point to keep a note of.
Anyways, this comes when you install multiple set of apps and the configurations are similar.
However, the most important point from the perspective of core Splunk is the etc. system default and
the etc. system local directories.
So that's the overview about the configuration file precedence.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Introduction to Indexes ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video
we will be covering the basics about Splunk indexes.
Now in a very simple term
the index is a repository of Splunk data.
So whatever data that you put inside Splunk
it gets stored in a index.
Now Splunk transforms the incoming data into events
which in turn are stored in the indexes.
Now, once Splunk indexes your data
it creates number of files.
These files fall into two categories.
One is the raw data, which is in a compressed format
and second is the indexes that point to the raw data
which are also referred as the TSI DX files
which also contains some metadata related aspects.
So let's understand this in a practical scenario
since this is more of a theoretical aspect.
So I'm in my Splunk here and if I go to settings
and if you click on "Indexes", you see
that there are various indexes which are present over here.
Now, one important aspect to remember is
that whatever data that you put inside Splunk
it needs to be stored in the index.
Now, consider index
as a container where you put your data into.
So, now if you look into this specific diagram,
this is a a pretty good diagram from the documentation.
All credits goes to the documentation.
Now, depending upon where you take your data from
it can be from the monitored input
it can be from UDP, from TCP, even from the TCP input.
It goes first into the passing queue.
From passing queue, it goes to the passing pipeline.
So passing pipeline is where your data
is converted into events.
So all of the normalization, regex transformation
everything is done in the passing pipeline.
Then it is goes to the index queue
and from index queue it goes to the index pipeline.
From that, the data are stored in a specific directory
which is raw data and the index files.
So let's understand this with a simple example.
So what I'll do, I'll create a new index
I'll name it as "KP Labs" and we'll just ignore everything.
For now, we'll just create a very simple basic index
with no additional configuration and I'll click on "Save".
Now, once your index is created
you will see that this is the index right now
and it also shows the path where your index is done.
Now in, now in Splunk
your index are generally stored is in OPT, Splunk, var lib,
and within this you have a directory, call it "Splunk".
And here you will see
that these are all the index directories.
So we recently created a new index
called "KP Labs" and hence a new directory
called "KP Labs" got created.
So if I go inside KP Labs
you'll see that there are multiple directories inside this.
We'll be speaking about these in the upcoming videos
but currently the main directory that you have here is DB.
Now inside DB right now you only have the creation time
you don't have any data.
Since this is a empty index
you don't really have any data here.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's add some sample data to the index.
So speaking of sample data, I,
I'll just create a sample data here.
I'll say, this is a sample data "01"
and I'll also just copy this few more times.
So I'll just replace the numbering convention.
You have 02, 03, 04, and 05.
Now I have saved this
in a text document called a "Sample-data"
and we'll add this to us to a Splunk instance.
Now in order to add it, we'll go to settings,
we'll click on "Add Data" and we'll
upload our sample.tht file.
So I have selected my sample-data.txt file
and it got uploaded.
I'll go to the next.
Now basically this is even,
I'll just say, "every line, even breakers, every line".
So now we have five event.
I'll do a next
and basically it will ask me for a source type.
So let's just say, "KP Lab"
or I will just say "Test".
I'll click on "Save".
Now in the index you'll see by default you, it,
the, it goes into the main index.
So you have a default index called as "Main".
So unless and until you specify
that you don't want to or you want to put your data
in a different index by default
Splunk field put everything inside the main index.
However, since we have already created a index
called "KP Labs", I'll just select "KP Labs" over here.
I'll do a review and I'll click on "Submit".
So once I click on "Submit", if I do a start searching
you see I have my five evens which are present over here.
Now let's look the same into the CLI aspect.
So now if we do a LS DB, because earlier we did a LS DB
and we only found that there was a creation time.
So this was the only file.
Now if we do LS DB yet again
now you see there is a one more directory
created call this "hot_even_0".
So let's go there.
So I'll do a CDhot_even_0
and I'll do a LS-elevator.
And within this you have multiple directories.
Now, within this there are two important file
in directories that we want to look into.
One is that PSIDX file.
So this is also referred as the "Index" file.
So it's generally,
it is basically used to basically contains the summary
of what is present within the raw data.
Now, if you open up the raw data, this is a file 0,
and if you do a CAT on 0 you
you'll see that it contains, this is sample data 01.
Then you have, this is sample data 03.
Then this is sample data 04.
So raw is basically it contains the data itself.
So whatever data that you import into Splunk
it gets stored within the raw data.
Now, Splunk will also compress the raw data.
So currently it is not in a compressed format
but it'll also do a GZ based compression at the later stage.
However, TSIDX file over here, it basically, it is like a
whenever you open a textbook during the start
you have the index there
and TSIDX is basically, it is like a index.
So by default it'll not contain each and every word.
It only contains certain summary like host source,
source type specific information.
But we have option where we can
store additional fields here.
So in order to understand this
in a much more better way, we'll take a simple example.
So let's go back
and let's go into Index Scholars Internal DB.
So I'll go to internal DB here,
and basically the directory structure will remain same.
So if I do a CD, and if I do LS-L
you'll see that there are a lot
of directories which are present to Oya.
We'll be discussing about that at the latest stage
but we are more interested in the say,
hot or let's say, we are,
let's pick up some other one
which is not hot, directory name.
I'll say the first one.
All right, and now if you do LS-L
you'll have a similar structure.
You have a TSITX file
and you have the raw data within raw data.
Now you see you have journal.gz
you do not have a direct raw data.
Splunk generally compresses them so
that other file size can be saved.
So generally, let's come back generally whenever you scan.
So there are two ways in which you can scan.
First, is you can directly scan through the index.
And second way is you can go ahead
go into the raw data, uncompress the raw data
and search through the events which are present there.
So definitely if you are scanning through the index
which is the TSIDX file
it will be much more faster when compared
to scanning the raw data directly.
So in order to understand that, what we'll do,
we'll try it out.
So now I have two commands.
One is index is equal to _internal
and we are basically doing a stats count by source type.
Now a source type is one
of the field which gets stored within the TSIDX file.
So however, when you do a stats,
stats is something which will look into the raw data.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's do a stats count by source type.
And let's look into the job.
We'll do a inspect job.
Inspect job will basically tell how much time it took
for the SPL to complete.
And it is saying it took 2.059 seconds
for the entire query to be executed.
So now let's just quickly write
I'll say this is 2.059 seconds, and now let's do T, T stats.
So T stats will not basically look into the raw data
it will only look into the TSIDX file
and that is of great importance.
So now let's close the job inspector
and I'll run the T stats.
Come on yet again.
And now if you look into the inspect job
you see it just took 0.175 seconds.
Let me just quickly write it down.
0.175 seconds.
So it is huge.
The amount of difference between the execution
of T stats versus that of stats is huge.
This is just 0.1 second, and this is around 2.05 seconds.
So this is a beauty about TSIDX file.
However, important part to remember is that not
everything will be stored in the TSIDX file,
similar to not each and everything
will be stored in the index of a book.
Similar to that, not everything gets stored
within the TSIDX file in Splunk.
Now a Splunk enterprise basically comes
with pre-configured indexes, which includes the main index.
We have already discussed that this is the default index
and all the data will get stored within this index
unless specified to get stored
in a different index altogether.
Second is the internal index.
Now internal index is basically used
for storing the Splunk's internal logs
and you also have the audit index.
Basically, it contains
events related to the user search history,
file system, change monitoring,
as well as auditing specific information.
So these are the three indexes
which generally Splunk comes with a pre-configured manner.
So this is the very high level overview about indexes.
I hope you understood in basic
on what indexes are and where indexes are located
and how Splunk actually stores the data
in a specific index within the raw data fashion.
So this is it about today's video.
We'll be discussing in more detail in the upcoming videos.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Document - Reference Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Bucket Lifecycle ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be discussing
about the Splunk bucket life cycle.
Now, we already know
from the previous video that Splunk basically stores all
of its data in directories and that directory
in technical term it is referred as the buckets.
Now a bucket, basically it moves
through several stages as it ages.
Now that stages are primarily hot, warm, cold, and frozen.
So let me give you one example.
So let's say that typically if you do searching in Splunk
you will or you might want to search
from last three days or from last seven days.
Typically, people will not search
for data like from last one year, right?
If you want to search from data
from last one year, that is something which very
few queries will have such requirement.
And this is the reason why Splunk will store
the data depending upon its age, so that the older data
it might be one year older
or whatever you specify it goes into disc
which is least expensive
because generally the data which needs to be searched
or which analysts would be searching quite
frequently it needs to be in a much more faster disc.
Otherwise there will be a lot of performance impact.
So what Splunk does is, any data which generally
is tended to be searched
it's it stores it in hot and warm bucket primarily
and then you can move it to cold bucket
which can be a different hard disk altogether.
However, the data which is in the cold bucket
it has little amount of chance of it being searched.
And the last is a frozen bucket.
So this is the overview about why
Splunk basically moves the data
into several stages depending
upon the age as well as various different factor.
Now coming about the bucket life cycle
you primarily have hot, warm, cold, frozen and thawed.
Now hot is basically any new data that is being
actively written to Splunk or any most recent data
it gets stored within the hot bucket.
Now data gets rolled from hot to warm
and a warm bucket are generally where no writing is allowed.
So one important point to remember is
that anything that you write
it only goes into the hot bucket.
Once the data goes into the warm bucket
it cannot be written to, alright
so hot is read plus write warm, cold
and others are only read only.
So you cannot write here.
Now once data goes from hot to warm
we know that data is not actively written to warm buckets.
Now after warm, it goes to cold.
Alright, so data gets rolled from warm bucket
to cold bucket.
Now the data which is there in the cold bucket, the
chances of it being searched by the analyst is little less.
So generally it gets rolled depending upon its
age or whatever configuration policy that you define.
Now from cold, it goes to frozen.
Now, frozen data are generally deleted by default
unless and until you tell Splunk to not delete
it or store it somewhere else.
Now from if, if you archive it
let's say you tell Splunk not to delete the frozen data
you archive it and if you want to restore the archive back
to Splunk, that process is called restore.
Now one important part to remember is
that typically in the organization which has compliance
they do not delete the data for compliance reasons.
So they might store the data
for for one year or even for five years.
And for this reason
typically frozen data will not be deleted.
So you'll have to explicitly tell Splunk not to
delete the data which goes
into frozen and archive it instead.
Now this is a nice little diagram
for the bucket life cycle so that we can understand.
So any events that comes into Splunk
it goes into the hot bucket.
Now, once the hot bucket is full
it goes into the warm bucket.
Now typically hot and warm bucket are in the same
hard disc right?
So you see they're typically in the same disc.
Now from warm bucket it goes into the cold bucket.
Now cold bucket you see it typically is a cheaper storage.
Now whatever disc you have in hot and warm bucket
it needs to be very fast
otherwise you'll have a lot of performance impact.
And this is the reason why the requirement of disc iops
or various other disc related performance matrix is very
high. Again, depending upon the data volume for hot
and warm bucket, however, you can have a little slower disc
for the data which is there in the cold bucket.
Now once data from cold bucket, it goes to frozen bucket.
Now a frozen bucket it
so any data that goes to frozen, it is deleted by default.
You can specify a frozen part
so that the data can be archived.
And then you have the thawed part.
So thawed part is you put the archived data
and you do the restoration process
so that it is again searchable in Splunk.
So this is the high level overview
about the bucket life cycle.
So this is the theoretical perspective.
Now, before we continue with more slides
again it will be more theoretical.
Let's do a practical and let's look
into how exactly this would look like.
So what we'll do is we'll go
to settings and we'll select indexes.
All right, so these are various indexes and
if you'll see each index here has its own max size.
It tells how many events are currently present
within the index, what is the earlier event
what is the latest event, the path
and also the frozen path.
Do remember that if you do not really specify frozen path
the data by default as we know it will get deleted.
So now let's go ahead and we'll create a new index.
So we'll give this index name
as bucket life cycle so that we can relate it to our video.
And the maximum size
of index you can specify in MB, GB or TB.
Now I'll select four MB so that we can actually test
on how exactly this works and that's about it.
So this is a simple configuration that we'll do
with our video.
I'll click on save.
Now once you have saved it, you'll see
that you have a new index colors bucket life cycle
and the maximum size is of four MB.
We have not really specified any frozen path here
and this is the path where
our directory lies or where our bucket lies.
So let's go to the CLI and then understand it better.
So I'm in my CLI and if you do a OPT Splunk, we'll do a ETC
and we are looking for a file call indexes dot conif
So if you typically do a a file, come on
I'll say indexes dot conif
there are various indexes dot conif.
Now we are more interested in the indexes dot conif
which is present within the search
and reporting app that we have created.
So we'll go to apps, we'll go to search, we'll go to local.
And within local you have indexes dot conif.
Now this indexes dot conif
so this is the bucket that we have created.
Now again, there are two ways you can either do it
through GY CLI or even directly to configuration.
So there are three ways here.
Now each of this index
over here has its associated configuration path.
So this is a field value pair.
So a cold path is a key
and this is the path where the cold data will be stored.
We already discussed here that cold data can be stored
in a cheaper storage and this is the reason why
in case you have multiple disc
and one disc is little cheaper
you can specify the path of that disc over.
And along
with that there are various other configuration parameter.
One important one is the max total data size MD is equal
to full.
So this is one important configuration path.
So this is it about the indexes dot conif.
Now real quick, if we go to org Splunk, var lib Splunk
we already know that our bucket will be stored here.
The bucket name is bucket life cycle.
I'll go to bucket life cycle.
And within this you have the cold DB.
Again, we'll be discussing this and if you do a DB
only thing that you have currently is the creation type.
So DB directory is where your hot
and warm buckets will be stored.
Cold DB we already know this is where
the cold data will be stored
and frozen is something that gets deleted by default.
So currently
since we do not have any data users at the creation time.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and add some data
to our bucket life cycle index.
So for our test purpose
what I have done is I have selected a file.
So this file is of size 4.06 MB.
So this is the file that we have selected.
So this is this file and we'll do a next.
The source type is access combined and the index,
this time we'll give bucket life cycle.
We'll do a review and we'll reconcilable.
Perfect so now if we do start searching
we have a total of 13,000 events.
Now once you have this, let's go to the indexes once again.
And currently if you look into the bucket life cycle event
you'll see that the current size is of three MB.
So three MB of data has been indexed.
Now the question is how three MB
because we actually uploaded a 4.2 MB
of data and it is showing three MB.
So now in order to understand this,
if I do L, S, hyphen, L
you see now you have a hot bucket created.
So this hot bucket we already discussed.
So any new data or any data which is actively written
to it gets stored within the hot bucket.
So if I do a hot 1.0 and here
you have the DS I D X file and you have the raw data.
Within raw data you see you have the journal dot GZ file.
So what Splunk has done is Splunk has compressed the data.
So Splunk actively does lot of compression of raw data
and this is why our size of index is much more lesser
than the file which was uploaded because it is compressed.
Now one important part in fact that is
in the next slide that we have, is when will the data
from hot bucket go to the warm bucket?
Again, this is a important pointer to understand.
So there are certain conditions as follows
where the data will be pushed from hot bucket
to warm bucket.
First is when we have too many hot buckets
which is basically defined with max hot buckets parameter
within the indexes dot conif that is the first.
Second is hot bucket has not received data since a while.
Then is time span of the bucket is too large.
Then is bucket metadata files have grown large
you have index clustering, replication error
and one more is Splunk is restarted.
So these are the factors through which the data
from hot bucket gets rolled to the warm bucket.
So let's look into one important aspect here.
We'll do a Splunk as restarted
and we'll see on how exactly it would work.
So what I'll do is I'll do O P T Splunk
bin Splunk restart.
So we'll manually restart Splunk and see how
the data gets rolled from the hot to warm bucket.
All right, so our Splunk is now restarted.
So if you quickly go to OPT Splunk,
var lib
Splunk bucket life cycle, then we'll go to
let's go inside here.
If you do LS, we'll go inside the DB.
Remember DB is that directory where hot
and warm buckets will be stored.
So now if you go into DB
now you see whatever bucket which was present
hot underscore we when it got changed
into DB underscore, these other identifiers.
So now this is what is referred as the warm bucket.
Now once warm bucket is present
this is where new data will not be stored.
This is just the read only data
and hence it is also possible to back up the data.
I do remember that a data within a hot bucket
cannot be backed up and should not be backed up
only the warm bucket.
So if you want to back up data
you need to roll it from hot bucket to warm
bucket and then only you can go ahead and
back up your data.
So let's do some interesting thing so that we
understand it in a much more better way.
So now that we have restarted, I'll just have
to log in and these are what our logs were earlier.
So now let's do one thing.
I'll create a directory in the route.
I'll say M K D I R slash backup.
All right, so let me do a pseudo
Now once we have the backup directory,
we will move
the entire warm bucket that we have to the backup directory.
So now let's move the DB underscore and we move
it to the backup directory.
We'll have to do a pseudo year alright.
Now once you have moved it
if you go back to this Splunk and let's do a search again.
Now you see you have zero events.
The reason why you have zero events is
because the entire warm bucket is now moved
to a different directory altogether
and Splunk does not really have access to it.
So this is something about backup.
So you can safely, I, really should not be doing move
but you can do something
like copy and copy it into your backup drive.
It can be AWS S3, which most
of the organization typically they back up their data into.
So let's quickly
re get our data.
I'll just put it here with the pseudo alright.
So now we have our warm bucket yet again.
So if I do a quick search, our events are backup.
Now along with that
one interesting thing that I wanted to show you is typically
if you go inside the warm bucket
the data that you'll see inside the raw data
everything will be in a compressed manner.
So you see you have journal dot GZ, and typically
this is the compressed data that you have here.
You'll not have data like earlier we saw that in raw data
like in the previous video, the data was we we
we were able to do a cat on the file directly.
However, once the data moves to the warm bucket, it will
it is, it'll typically get stored in a compressed manner.
So this is it
about moving the data from hot bucket to warm bucket.
We'll continue with this series in the upcoming video.
Otherwise the length of the video will go quite long.
So with this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Warm to Cold Bucket Migration ---

-: Hey everyone.
Hey everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were basically discussing
about how data moves from hot bucket to warm bucket.
Now continuing the series,
in today's video, we will discuss
on how data moves from warm bucket to cold buckets.
Now, one important part to remember is
that ideally, historical data should be stored
in the cold bucket because
if you remember in the diagram that we were discussing,
the cold bucket path ideally should be in a cheaper storage.
So hot and warm bucket should be in a disc
which has a much more faster performance.
However, the cold bucket can be in a cheaper storage.
So where the discs are slow
but the storage gap SET is cheaper.
So this is how generally you will see lot
of organizations implementing the architecture.
Now, this is the reason why this point says
that ideally the historical data should go there
because if you search for the data which is present
within the cold bucket, your performance will be impacted.
Now basically buckets are ruled
from warm to cold when there are too many warm buckets.
Now, what do you mean
by when there are too many warm buckets?
Now, this is specified
within the indexes configuration, which you define.
So this is a sample index configuration where
you have your index name, you have your cold path
so this is the cold path.
This can be whatever path that you define.
It can be of current disc, it can be of remote disc.
And the last important configuration here
is max warm DB count is equal to 300, and that means
that there can be maximum of 300 warm buckets, after 300
warm bucket limit is reached
the bucket will be moved from warm to cold.
And in today's video, we will be looking
into this in practical aspect so
that we understand on how exactly it works.
All right, so I am in my Splunk CLI.
So we'll go to opt Splunk etc apps, search, local.
And within this directory you have a indexes.conf.
So let's open indexes.conf here,
and basically we have two indexes which are
present. One is KP labs, and second is bucket life cycle.
So bucket life cycle is the index that we are more
interested in.
Now, now within this index, you will see at the start
you have the cold path.
So this is the path where your cold database
buckets will be stored.
However, we do not have any configuration related
to maximum bucket that we were discussing.
So this specific configuration is not present.
So let's do one thing.
I'll just copy this configuration to avoid any typos,
and I'll paste it here.
So this is max warm DB count, and this time we'll
say count is equal to one.
That means there can be maximum of only one warm bucket.
We'll go ahead and we'll save it.
Now, before we do a restart, let's quickly look
into how many warm or hot buckets are there currently.
So if you go to opt Splunk, var lib Splunk
within this we'll go to bucket life cycle.
Within this you have DB, and within DB you currently
have only one warm bucket.
So this is the only warm bucket that you have right now.
So what we'll do is we'll go ahead and we'll add a new data.
So let's go
to the indexes right now and we'll go to add data.
This time, since our index sizes quite less, what we'll do
is we'll just upload a very small text file.
You can just upload any text file that you intend to do.
I have one test file, which is lookups hyphen sample
hyphen zero one.
I'll just upload this text file.
It does not really have much, it just has this spy event.
I'll go ahead and let me just say test source type.
I'll save it.
Now within the index
I want to save it in the bucket life cycle index.
We'll go, we'll do a review and we'll click on submit.
Perfect. So now your file is uploaded.
So now if you do a ls, once again,
you see you have a hot bucket which is present over here.
So this is the hot bucket where your events
are currently present.
So we have one warm bucket.
We have one hot bucket.
Now we have modified the indexes dot conf.
So now next time when you restart
what would happen is the data which is there
within the warm bucket, it will be shifted
to the cold bucket and the data which is there
in the hot bucket, it will be moved to the warm bucket.
The reason why, because there is,
there can be only one warm bucket.
So currently this warm bucket is already present.
Now if you restart, the hot will be converted to warm
and there there'll be two warms.
So the, and, our configuration says that
there can be maximum
of only one warm bucket, and hence Splunk will move one
of the warm buckets to the cold storage.
So what we'll do,
we'll do a opt Splunk bin Splunk restart.
Perfect. So our Splunk is now restarted.
Now if you do a LS save and L, once again
you see that there is only one warm bucket.
And previously if you go a bit up
our warm bucket name ended with 6936 under score zero.
And if you see here, this is little different.
So basically now we can confirm
that whatever hot bucket was present,
it moved to the warm bucket here.
So this is the new warm bucket.
And if you go out of this directory
you have also directory called cold db.
Now if you go to cold db
you see this is the warm bucket that we had.
So this is how the migration actually happens.
However, one problem here is
that everything that we have here is
within the route. In the idle practice.
generally the cold DB that you generally create it
it should, you should avoid it to be in the main disc,
because the main disc is supposed to be very, very fast.
And if you start to store all the cold DB here
one thing is that storage will be expensive
and hence it's better to move cold DB
to a cheaper storage so that you only have the hot
and warm in the disc, which has a very good performance.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Archiving Data to Frozen Path ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now continuing our journey about the bucket life cycle.
In today's video will look into the cold to frozen aspect.
Now one important part to remember over here is that
whatever data that you might have in frozen bucket
will no longer be searchable
and by default Splunk will delete the data unless
and until you specify it not to do so.
Now data rolls from cold to frozen bucket when total size
of the index, which basically means hot plus warm
plus cold grows too large, this is one important aspect.
Second is oldest event in the bucket exceeds
the specific age.
So these are the two factors when
a Splunk will basically move data from
the cold to frozen bucket.
Now the configuration that you can specify
for frozen bucket is this, which is called to frozen dir
which basically means store all the data which goes
to the frozen buckets to a specific directory instead
of deleting it.
By default in the default process the TSID X file is removed
when the data goes to the frozen bucket.
So you only will have the raw data event
in a compressed format.
Great. So this is the basics about a call to frozen.
Let's go ahead and do this practically
so that we'll understand how exactly it works.
Now to make things little exciting.
Now to make things little exciting
we'll do some interesting thing today.
So we have a bucket life cycle.
So this is our index.
Now if you'll see the current size of the index
so this is the current size.
The current size of the index is three mb
and the maximum size of the index
if you'll see, is four mb.
Now what we'll do is we'll basically add a good amount
of data to this index and we'll look
into how Splunk will behave in such use case.
So I'll go to Splunk Enterprise
and basically we'll have our search window open
for index is equal to bucket life cycle.
So this is our index physical to bucket life cycle.
And if you do a search from last 24 hours
you'll see that there are five events.
These five events are basically
from the lookup file that we had uploaded earlier.
Now let's go to settings.
Let's click on add data.
So basically what we'll do is we'll upload a file which is
of size 28 mb.
So I have a access hyphen big.
This will be in the upload directory.
I'll share you the link.
So we'll upload this and we'll look
into how Splunk will handle things when
the index size is reached and you upload,
you still continue to upload user amount of data.
So now this is done.
We'll go ahead and we'll do a next.
It has automatically determined the source type
the index this time would be bucket life cycle.
We'll go ahead and we'll do a review and do a submit.
Great, so now the file is uploaded.
Let's go ahead and start to search.
So these are all the events which are currently present.
However, we are not interested in this event.
We are interested in the events which were present earlier
before this big file was uploaded.
So instead of searching for the entire string,
I'll just search by index
as you call it, the bucket lifecycle.
And within this, if you will look into the source,
there is only one source that you can see over here.
However, earlier we had a file
of source as lookup hyphen sample hyphen zero one
but it seems that the sources still not present.
That means the earlier data which was present,
it is now deleted.
Let's confirm that also.
So I'm in my vault in Splunk.
So if you go to cd, bucket life cycle, and if I do a lsof
let's do a call db, you don't have anything here.
Let's do a db.
And the only thing you have is the hot bucket.
So there were huge amount,
since we uploaded huge amount of data.
Whatever data that we had earlier, it went to frozen.
And by default we already know
that the frozen buckets are deleted and hence,
we don't really have any thing which is present over here.
So now, let's specify this frozen bucket directory also.
So I'll do opt/splunk/etc/apps/search local
and let's edit the indexes dot conf.
Now this time within the bucket life cycle.
You know that we discussed that there is
a specific path call it cold to frozen dir.
So now we'll specify this path
and here we have to specify what is the parts.
I'll say temp, I'll say frozen db.
So this can be any path
I'm just specifying it just for our ease of understanding.
And along with that we'll go to temp
and we'll create a new directory call it frozen db.
Alright, so now let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and restart Splunk.
I'll say opt/splunk beam/splunk restart.
Perfect. So now our Splunk is restarted.
So quickly if you try and open frozen db,
you see now you have the warm bucket here.
So this is what frozen db is all about.
It is recommended specifically if you are having compliance,
a lot of compliance states
that you should not be deleting your data.
Instead, you should archive the data
and archiving is the best way
through the helper frozen db parameter we had set
in the indexes dot conf.
Again, it's very important
it's better never to delete your data
at least for the period of one year.
Specifically if you are working with security
because it might happen that there was a security breach
which happened six, seven months ago
and you just realized that
because it came into the public like
a attacker had released the data into public.
It has happened with lot of major organizations
and hence if you do not have the data
you'll not be able to search the log files.
So this is it about the basics
of moving data from cold to frozen db.
I hope this video has been useful for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video now.
Now before we actually, I'll just stop the video.
I forgot that there is one last step
that we forgot to discuss.
That in default process, that TSID X file is removed
and the buckets is specified to the destination we specify.
So this is an important part to remember
which is TSID X file is removed.
So we did not confirm it.
So if you go to db, I'll say frozen db.
And within this, if you go to db,
you see you only have raw data,
you do not have a TSID X file.
Now within the raw data you'll only have journal or jz
which is the compressed version of the data.
You don't really have other files.
So this is one last point that I forgot to discuss,
but now that we have the entire slide covered.
So that's it and I look forward to seeing you
in the next video.

--- Thawing Process ---

-: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in today's video we will be discussing
about the last stage of the bucket life cycle,
which is for restoration.
Now generally the restoration is a manual process
and it is also referred as the thawing process.
Now, we already discussed that data
which is supposed to be deleted
can be moved to a frozen DB directory that we specify.
Now, if you want to restore the data
from the frozen DB back to Splunk,
there are certain steps that we need to perform.
Because if you remember the data in frozen DB,
it only contains a compressed format
which is journal.gz.
It does not really have any tsidx file,
or any of the meta data files.
So there are three steps which are required
as part of the thawing process.
One is moving that data from frozen DB to the TAR DB here.
So this is the TAR DB directory that we have
within our bucket.
We have to move our archive data here.
The second thing is you need to run
the Splunk rebuild command and you need to specify the part
of your restore archive that you want to index it again.
And third part is you have to do a Splunk restart.
So, these are the three steps
and we'll be looking into these three steps.
Now, one more part that I wanted to quickly show you.
Let me just open
up the index as you call to bucket lifecycle.
And if you search by all time,
you see there are no events right now.
This is primarily because Splunk has deleted those events.
In our case, they would be
in the frozen DB because we had specified there.
Now typically when the size
of the index is much more higher
I mean the data size is much more higher,
the change process begins
and Splunk moves the data to the frozen buckets.
So let's go to our CLI
and this is our bucket life cycle.
We are inside the DB
and we don't really have any data over here.
So we already discussed that our data lies
in the empty frozen DB
and this is the directory part.
So what we'll be basically doing
is we will be moving this specific bucket inside our TAR DB.
So let's go to TAR DB
and now here we'll be moving or let's do a copy recurs it.
I'll say 10 frozen DB and I'll specify here.
So now within the TAR DB,
we have this specific directory which contains the raw data.
So if you quickly open this up,
it only contains the raw data.
And if you open the raw data,
it only contains the journal.gz file.
So this is what we want to reindex back to Splunk.
Now, in order to reindex back to Splunk
what you need to do is first thing
you need to go to OPT Splunk bin
and here you have to run this Splunk rebuild command.
So if you look into the Splunk rebuild command here,
you will see you have Splunk rebuild.
You have to specify the exact part
inside the TAR DB where your DB directory lies.
So this is the part.
So let's try it out.
I'll say Splunk rebuild,
OPT, Splunk,
WAR, LIP, Splunk.
The index name is bucket life cycle.
You have TAR DB and you have the DB directory.
So this is the command
and currently you see
it says the maximum bucket size is larger
than that of the index size limit.
So basically it is saying that the data which is present
in the compressed format is much more larger
than what we have in the maximum index size limit.
However, if you see over here,
the events are archived over here.
Whatever events that we wanted to be present
as part of the compressed format are archived.
But do remember that although
the maximum index size is lesser,
it is very important
that we increase the index size
of our bucket life cycle.
Otherwise the evens will be moved
to the frozen bucket yet again.
Now, if I quickly go to indexes.
If you go to bucket life cycle you need to edit,
and make sure that if you are archiving,
or I would say if you are rebuilding that data from archive,
make sure that your index size matches
the data which was archived.
For example, let's say every year
your total index size is 10 GB
and you want to rebuild
or you want to reindex the data from previous two years.
That means you need to make sure
that you increase your index size by 20 GB
so that the older data can be reindexed
without your maximum index size being reached.
Now, in case you want to do that, you can directly do
from the GUI or you can do from the CLI as well.
You need to increase the maximum index size,
let's say 20 GB,
or whatever you intend to do,
and just restart Splunk,
and then you can rearchive whatever data that you have.
So this is it about this video.
I hope you understood the basics
about the Splunk bucket life cycle.
Again, we went into each
and every detail so that our concepts remain clear.
I really hope that these practical sessions has been useful
for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Splunk Workflow Actions ---

Speaker: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be speaking
about Splunk Workflow Action.
Now, Workflow action is one
of my favorite features that I really like about Splunk.
So let's get started.
Now, Splunk Workflow Action basically allows us to
add that interactivity between the index field
and other web resources.
Now let's understand this with an example.
So let's suppose that there is a field called Client IP
in our access underscore combined source type
based log file.
Now what you can do is,
you can add "whois lookup" based field
which can automatically query this specific IP address
on the client IP field whenever someone clicks on it.
So let's understand with the practical example,
so that it becomes much more easier for us to understand.
So I'm in my Splunk,
so I'll go to the Search and Reporting app.
And within the data summary, we'll select the source app
which is Access and the score combined under score test.
And these are the log files.
Now, if you open up this log and you go a bit down,
you see that there is a client IP failure.
Now what you might want, or you also have a Referer domain.
So maybe what you want is that
you want to see whether this IP is a blacklisted IP
or whether there are any known reports for this IP
for spamming other providers.
So ideally if you just do a Google here
and basically you can, you see there are so many results.
So while you can get a lot of information like
from which country and from which city
the IP is coming from,
the data center the ISV related information,
and various others.
So this sometimes proves to be quite important, specifically
during the analyzing phase, specifically when some kind
of a security attack takes place.
So generally for such scenarios,
what a typical analysts have to do is he have to
copy this IP address, he has to go to Google
he has to create a query to get some meaningful information.
So maybe what we can do is we can automate that specific
part so that all the analyst has to do is they have to click
on certain field and they'll automatically redirect it
to this specific page, which is abuseipdb.com.
So this part can be done with the help of workflow actions.
So in order to create a workflow action, you need to go
to Settings and you need to go to Fields.
Now within the field page, you have a workflow actions here
and currently there are three workflow actions.
So these are the default ones that comes. So we'll go ahead
and we'll create a new workflow action.
Now the destination app is Search.
The name would be, let's say "whois lookup".
The label that will basically appear while
as a field in search is whois lookup again,
we'll let it be the same.
Now it can apply only to the following field.
So, which is the field which contains the IP address here?
It is the client IP field.
So what we need to do is
we have to specify the client IP field lawyer.
Now, here you have to basically specify the URL,
and you can say http://www.google.com/search
and query should be DOL client IP.
So the client IP is a variable.
So instead of going through Google, what we do,
we'll make use of this website,
which is abuseipdp.com/.
And at the end you have the variable here.
So this is the IP address that you can feed here.
So we'll put this here and we'll replace this,
the last portion of the URL with client IP portion
and open link in, it's definitely new window because
if someone clicks in and it just opens up in this window
your search will go away.
So it's better to open it in new window.
And the link method you have get in post, we will work
with get as of now.
I'll go ahead and I'll save it.
Perfect. So now what we do,
we'll quickly refresh because sometimes Chrome
is known to do caching, so it does not really work well.
So once we have refreshed it, now if you quickly click
on open and here you see you have the client IP
and within event action you'll see you have a whois lookup.
So when I click on whois lookup,
it'll automatically redirect to the abuseipdp.com
and it'll put in the variable associated with the client IP.
And now you see you have a nice information related
to which IPs belongs to with city
which country it belongs to, et cetera.
So now you see this workflow actions becomes a lot of-
it adds a lot of meaning depending upon the use case.
This again, is one of the interesting use case,
and in the organizations that I have been working with
we only have security logs
and Splunk is extensively users as I am,
and we do use this specific type of workflow actions
so that it becomes easier for the analyst to do things.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you,
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Overview of Universal Forwarders ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video
we will be discussing about
the Splunk universal forwarder.
Now generally in any organization,
one of the common things that
you will see is that users have laptop
and organization have set-up servers
where their application is running.
So when you want to send the logs
from the users laptops or from
the servers to the central Splunk,
then you need a specific agent.
And this is where
the universal forwarder
comes into the picture.
So at a high level overview,
the Splunk universal forwarder
is basically an agent
that collects the data
from a server or maybe from
a specific device and
sends it back to the Splunk.
So this can be better understood
with this diagram
where there are two servers
and each server has a
specific set of log files.
So when you want this log files
to be sent to Splunk you need
a agent that needs to be installed.
So this universal forwarder agent
you install in server one
you install it in server two
and this agent takes the log file
and sends it to the
central Splunk instance.
And from the central Splunk instance,
you can go ahead and
query the log files as well as
create the relevant set of alerts.
Now, do note that
in this specific diagram
we have considered servers
but it can also be various
other devices like laptops.
The Splunk universal forwarder
can also be installed
at a laptop level,
and all the log events
from the laptop can be
sent to the centralized Splunk.
So let's quickly look into
the basic architecture.
So you have a Splunk and
you have various set of devices
like you have a laptop,
you have servers, et cetera
where you install a universal forwarder.
And the universal forwarder
will take the logs from the device and
sends it to Splunk at
a specific receiving port.
So in this case,
a receiving port is triple nine seven.
So this port is where all
the universal forwarder agent
will send the logs.
And the logs that have been
received on this port will be
indexed at a Splunk level.
So this is the high level architecture
of how things work at a
universal forwarder level.
So for today's demo video,
I have two servers.
First is where our
Splunk instance is up.
So this is our basic Splunk instance.
And second server is where our
universal forwarder is installed.
So currently I'm logged into
the server where we have installed
the universal forwarder agent.
And if you'll quickly look into opt,
Splunk forwarder,
bin,
Splunk status,
you should see it states
status Splunk is running.
So basically this forwarder agent will
go ahead and take various log files
from the wire log directory.
So there are various
log files like alt log,
cloud in and output log, et cetera.
So it'll take this file and
it'll send to the Splunk instance.
Now I already have a
Splunk instance up and running.
So if you'll go to the
search and reporting app
let's quickly look into
the data summary here.
And within here you see that
there is one host.
The name of the host
is Splunk forwarder,
and basically it is
forwarding various log files.
So log files like alt log,
cloud, in and output log.
All the things that we were discussing
are being forwarded here.
So if you'll quickly look into
the alt log over here
these are all the contents of
the authentication logs that
the universal forwarder agent
has sent to the Splunk server.
Great. So I hope with this
you understood the basics of
the universal forwarder.
Now generally in organization
where you're managing Splunk
one of the very important components
that you'll be actively managing
as well as troubleshooting
would be universal forwarder.
All of the servers
in the organization must
have universal forwarder and
you also have to ensure that
appropriate log files are being sent
by the universal forwarder agent
to your Splunk instance.
Now, one of the great things about
the universal forwarder is that
it is supported in wide variety
of operating systems including
Linux, Windows, Mac OS,
Solaris, et cetera.
So even though you have laptops
you can install a universal forwarder
in laptops very easily,
as well as the servers
to send the log centrally.
So this the high level overview and
with this will conclude today's video.

--- Installing Universal Forwarder in Linux ---

Instructor: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video we'll look into
how we can install the universal forwarder,
and how the log files from the servers can be sent
to Splunk through universal forwarder configuration.
Now for this setup,
there are two components that are needed.
First, you need a central Splunk instance
where the logs will be pushed to,
and second, you need one more test server
where you can install the universal forwarder
and complete the appropriate configurations.
And this is one of the reasons why we have two servers.
First server, which is Splunk zero one is where
we have a brand new Splunk setup that is installed.
And second server is called the Splunk forwarder.
This is a new server based on Ubuntu where
we do not really have any Splunk component installed.
So what we will be doing,
we'll be installing the Splunk Universal forwarder
into this specific server and we look into
how the data can be sent.
Now if you look into
installing the Splunk universal forwarder,
you need the agent to be available.
So this agent,
you can download it from Splunk website itself.
So if you'll quickly go to the trial and downloads,
so within the trial and download space
you have the Splunk Universal Forwarder
Splunk Enterprise, et cetera.
So we take the universal forwarder from here,
and as we are discussing the universal forwarder
can be installed in Windows,
it can be installed in MacOS et cetera.
Since we have a Linux machine for test set up,
we'll be using the Linux option here.
The one that we are interested is the 64 bit,
and depending upon the operating system,
if you have a Red Hat based OS like Rocky Linux
or CentOS or Red Hat itself, you can use rpm.
If you have Ubuntu, then you'll have to make use of Deb.
So we'll be using the Deb one.
Let's click on download now.
If you'll click here, you'll basically
get a Wget command to install a universal forwarder.
So currently, I am logged into the server,
which is going to act as a Splunk forwarder,
and we'll run the Wget command over here.
As expected, the dev file is downloaded.
So if you see this is the file,
let's go ahead and perform the necessary operation.
We'll say dpackage hyphen I
forward by the name of the dev file.
Great, so the setup is complete.
Now, very similar to the Splunk instance,
if you'll quickly go to O-P-T,
this time it should be Splunk forwarder.
So this is the path,
and basically you're very similar to Splunk.
You have various directory structure like ATC,
you have bin, et cetera.
So we are more interested in bin.
And within here you have Splunk binary available.
So this is the binary for the universal forwarder.
If you'll quickly do a Splunk start,
you'll have to accept the license agreement
very similar to that of Splunk.
I'll say why.
And here you'll have to also give the username and password.
Let's quickly do that.
And great our Splunk server demon is up and running.
So now let's quickly go back to root.
So the exact part to the Splunk universal forwarder
would be O-P-T Splunk forwarder bin Splunk follow.
So this is the entire path
and if you'll quickly do a status,
the status should be up and running.
Now, if you're interested to see what are
the log files that the Splunk forwarder would be sending,
you can say list monitor.
It will ask you for the username and password.
Let's quickly add the username and password.
So these are the credentials that we had set
while installing the universal forwarder.
So if you look over here under the monitored directories,
these are the directories that are currently monitored,
which is O-P-T, Splunk forwarder one,
Splunk audit dot log, et cetera.
So at this stage you'll see that
no system level logs are being monitored.
So basically, when you connect this Splunk forwarder
to the Splunk instance, there are certain log files
that needs to be sent,
so you can determine which are the log files
that you want to be indexed.
Now as we were discussing
for the logs to be sent from the universal forwarder
there needs to be a receiving port at the Splunk side,
so this is one important thing that needs to be done.
So what you'll have to do is
you have to go to settings, forwarding and receiving.
At this stage we are interested in receiving all it.
So we want to configure the receiving here,
and at this stage there are no ports assigned for receiving.
Let's click on new receiving port,
and I'll say triple nine seven.
I'll go ahead and do a save.
All right, so now the Splunk universal forwarder
can send the logs to this specific triple nine seven port.
Now again here you have to be careful whether
the connectivity between the Splunk instance
of triple nine seven port and your server is there or not.
If connectivity is not there, then it should not work.
So this is one important thing that you need to note,
specifically when you have a firewall environment.
Many times it happens that due to firewall
the server is not really able to send the log
to the Splunk instance, and then you keep on wondering why
your universal forwarder is not really working.
Alright, so one quick way to identify the connectivity
is that you can quickly do a tell net on the IP address
of the Splunk instance, 134.209.149.241.
And the port would be triple nine seven,
and you see it states that we are connected.
You'll have to specify the escape character,
and I'll say quit to Warrior.
Another way that you can use,
you can use the net cat command.
Just specify the IP address here
followed by the port.
Oops, a small mistake.
(keyboard clicking)
And it states connection is succeeded.
Similarly, if you want to try with another port,
let's say triple nine eight,
it basically states connection refused.
So you should basically see
that the connection should be successful.
So this is one important part to remember.
Great.
So at this stage universal forwarder is installed.
We have tested that the connection is successful
between the server and the Splunk instance
on port triple nine seven.
The next important part is we have to monitor
the appropriate log files that we want to send to Splunk.
So, generally in Linux, you will see
that the log files are stored in the var/log directory.
There are a lot of important log files
like OS Log and various others.
So let's say that you want to send the data
from var/log directory to the central Splunk instance.
So how can you do that?
You'll have to specify that to the Splunk forwarder.
So I'll say O-P-T, Splunk forwarder, bin Splunk,
and we'll ask the agent to add a new monitoring
on the var/log directory.
Alright, so this directory is now monitored,
and if you want to quickly verify that, you can just
say list monitor, and within here you should see var/log
and various log files, like history log, audit log,
basically the contents that are
part of the var/log directory.
So this is fine.
Now we have told a universal forwarder
to monitor the contents of var/log directory,
but at this stage we have not yet told the forwarder
the address of the Splunk instance
where the data needs to be sent,
so the next step is we have to tell forwarder
that this is the IP address of the Splunk instance
where you have to send the log files.
So very similar to the earlier command.
This time I'll say add forward server,
basically add a server where the data needs to be forwarded,
and we'll have to specify the IP address
of this Splunk instance.
So this is the IP address followed by the port where
the data needs to be sent, which is triple nine seven.
And you see it states added the forwarding over here.
So now if you go to this Splunk Enterprise instance,
if things are configured properly, you should see the logs,
so let's quickly verify it.
Now within the data summary,
due to some reason the logs are not being sent.
All right, so this is completely fine.
This gives us an opportunity to troubleshoot
on what went wrong.
Now one of the ways in which you can quickly troubleshoot
on why the universal forwarder is not sending the logs
let's quickly find it out.
We'll go to opt, Splunk forwarder, var/log.
Alright, and under this we are interested
in the directory called Splunk.
And under this there is log file call splunkd.log.
So this is where we are interested in.
Let's quickly do a tell on splunkd.log.
So here you'll see you are getting a lot of error.
So this is the one that we're interested in
stating that took the connection to IP address.
So it is stating it is timing out,
so it is basically not able to connect to the server.
Now there can be multiple reasons behind this.
First let's quickly verify
if we have specified the IP address correctly.
So let's run the NC -Z on this IP address.
Oops, let's remove this.
And yes, this is where we have made the mistake.
So if you will see the IP address, 134.209.149.24,
But the actual IP address is 241,
So we had missed one over here.
Alright, so due to this,
the data could not be sent to this Splunk instance.
Now there are multiple ways to achieve this.
Let me quickly show you a different way
on how you can change this configuration settings.
So when you go to O-P-T, Splunk forwarder,
since we are modifying the configuration setting,
we have to go to the ATC directory over year,
and then you have a directory of system.
And within here, again, you have a defaults and local,
let's go to local, and then here
you have a configuration setting called outputs.conf.
So if you'll quickly do a cat on outputs.conf,
this is where the data related
to the Splunk central server is configured.
So you can modify this file.
Let's quickly modify this file over here and I'll say 241.
All right.
Perfect.
So now let's go ahead and
restart the Splunk universal forwarder.
Great.
Now, in order to verify if your setting has applied,
you can quickly do O-P-T, Splunk forwarder, bin Splunk,
followed by list forward server.
Let's specify the credentials,
and you should see this is the forward server
and we have 241 as expected.
Now again, you can also verify from the configuration file
from O-P-T, Splunk forwarder, var/log, Splunk, Splunk,
and the log file we are interested is splunkd.log.
So I'll says splunkd.log.
And this is what you are interested in.
So if you'll see connected to IDX.
So this is the log entry that you're interested in.
So basically it means
that the connection has been successfully established.
Now from the Splunk instance as well, you should see
that you have one host of Splunk forwarder.
And if you look into the sources, it is basically
sending various log entries from the var/log directory.
So if you'll just open up any of the log file over here
all of these other entries that are being sent.
So this is the basics of the Splunk universal forwarder.
We also looked into the troubleshooting step.
It is good that I made a typo into the IP address
so that we also looked into the troubleshooting on how
if things are not really working, what are the log files
and what are the configuration files that you can also edit.
Now, generally in organizations when you have thousands
of servers, the universal forwarder related
troubleshooting is a very important step.
It will happen that out of thousand servers there are five
or 10 servers which are simply not able to
send the data to Splunk.
This is one of the common occurrences,
and as a Splunk administrator, you have to spend
a good amount of time in troubleshooting these scenarios.
And one of the important file to check is
the splunkd.log to see on what is the exact issue
due to which the data is not being sent.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Installation Manual - Splunk Universal Forwarder ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Agent Management ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we are going to discuss about agent management.
Now before we discuss about agent management, let's take a step back to understand the challenge that
organization generally faces with the universal forwarder based approach.
Now what happens is in larger enterprises you will have thousands of servers.
So you will have to monitor all of those servers in Splunk.
So what is one common thing that you will have to do.
You'll have to install Universal Forwarder in all of the servers.
This is fine through Ansible, chef, puppet, etc. you will be able to do that pretty quickly.
Now after installation of Universal Forwarder you will have to run certain commands.
So in our practical video of Universal Forwarder installation in Splunk, we had ran two primary commands.
One was the Splunk ad monitor var log and then the Splunk ad forward server, followed by the IP address
of the server where the log file needs to be sent to.
Now this is also fine, and maybe one time you can automate this as part of the ansible or chef.
Now the issue that happens is, let's say after one week, there is one more requirement to monitor
an additional log file.
So let's consider that there is a log file.
And you want to monitor that in all of the servers.
So now what you will have to do in all of the thousands of servers that you might have, you will have
to create an Ansible playbook or a chef recipe that will go ahead and get deployed and will run the
add monitor command based on the newer path.
Now, after one month, maybe you have one more log file that you want to monitor.
Again, you will have to run Ansible on all thousands of servers and so on.
So this is something that you do not really want because for each modification at a universal forwarder
level, you have to run a ansible or some form of automation in all thousands of servers.
And this is something that is not the best of the approaches.
Again, again, a lot of organizations still uses that approach, but there is a better approach that
is in-built and available in Splunk.
Call as agent management at a high level.
Overview.
Agent management allows us to centrally deploy changes to all the universal forwarders, eliminating
the need to manually execute commands on each individual forwarder.
We'll be discussing about this in just a moment, but the aim here is that there is a central feature
in Splunk through which you can deploy all of these changes.
No longer you have to run Ansible manually on all of those servers.
So this is the basics.
Now let's discuss about the basic architecture of agent management at a high level.
Overview.
The agent management feature in Splunk is used for managing the data collection agents.
So these are basically the universal forwarders that you might have installed in your servers.
Again, you have a wide variety of support that is also available over here.
And the primary purpose of agent management is to manage the large group of forwarders that you might
have.
So in Splunk you enable the agent management feature, and now in the agent management you can set various
set of configurations.
Now these configurations can be very detailed.
For example, you can say that if there is a server whose IP address is starting from 192 star, so
192, one six, eight, 10.5, etc. for those servers, monitor only var log secure.
Then if there are servers whose IP addresses are starting from 10.77 monitor var log secure as well
as var log audit, or if there are servers whose hostname is something similar to win star monitor windows
events as well as the Active Directory logs.
So all of these customizations you can do at the agent management level.
And this is of great help in enterprises.
Now discussing about agent and agent management.
Note that agents can be universal forwarders.
In most of the cases is universal forwarders are the agents that are actively managed.
It can also be heavy forwarders.
It can also be indexers, search heads or various others.
So this is one point to note.
So if you look into the screenshot, there are two servers that are managed as part of agent management.
One is the backend server zero one, backend server zero two.
So the status is also showing as okay.
And the agent type you can clearly see as universal forwarder.
Let me also quickly show you a demo.
This will give us better clarity.
So currently I am in my demo Splunk instance.
Now as part of this, if we go to the agent management over here, you see within here you are able
to see two servers where the universal forwarder agent is installed.
The agent type here is universal Forwarder.
The status is also okay.
Now this is very beneficial.
So generally in larger enterprises you will have thousands of servers.
So you would like to see the status of universal forwarder whether it is working it is not working etc.
so you will be able to see the status from here.
And in case out of 1000 servers, maybe there can be 2 or 3 servers where universal forward is not working
as expected.
You can quickly identify from here and then you can troubleshoot by logging into the server.
So this again is very beneficial.
Second thing that we were discussing is that you can centrally manage them.
For example we have one application here which is sample underscore app.
So within the application you can configure what log files you want to monitor.
So for example let's say in the sample app you have specified I want to monitor var log.
But after one week there is a requirement to monitor app log.
So all you have to do is you have to deploy a new application centrally from here to all of the universal
forwarders.
And that's about it.
Splunk Agent Management will take care of everything in a similar way.
If you have deployed an app to the universal forwarder and you do not want that app, now, you want
to remove it.
That is also something that is possible.
Let me in fact show you.
So at this stage, you see we have a sample app that is available.
The deployment status is successfully deployed in two agents because we only have two servers that are
connected as part of the agent management.
So let's say that I want to remove this sample app.
So this again is simple.
So I can click on uninstall.
Let's refresh.
So in the agents you see this time you only have one.
So it is removing this app in all of the universal forwarder based agents.
Let's refresh again.
And you see in the agents it is zero.
So the deployment status at this stage is not deployed.
So from the centralized console it becomes very simple to go ahead and manage things through the agent
management feature.
Now before we conclude one more thing that I wanted to show you.
What happens if one of the servers may be the universal forwarder agent stops working, or the server
itself stops working?
How does the status really looks like?
Let me also show you so that we get better clarity from here.
Now for today's demo.
Currently I'm logged in to the backend server two and what we are going to do, we are going to stop
the Splunk as part of this.
All right.
So let's currently I'm in Opt Splunk forwarder.
Let's go to Bin Splunk.
And I'm going to stop this.
All right.
Now if Splunk is stopped over here you will be able to see the changes as part of the agent management
also.
So in the agent management the backend server two as of now the status was okay.
And slowly you will be able to see the changes as well.
Let's quickly wait for a moment here and on refresh.
You see in the status associated with backend server two, the agent is now offline.
So from here you can quickly diagnose if there are issues with the universal forwarders.
And then once you see the status as offline, you can quickly troubleshoot by logging into the server
to see what is the issue.
And also your agents offline.
It is showing as one.
So this proves to be very useful over here.
So this is one more part related to the agent management.
Now before we conclude few pointers that we have to keep a note of, first important one is that starting
with Splunk version 10.0 onwards, Splunk has made some changes towards the product names.
So Deployment Server is what we use to refer earlier.
However, now it is called as agent Management and also forwarder management is now also called as agent
management.
So if you discuss about Splunk Splunk nine and then you compare it with Splunk ten, then there will
be some terminology differences as well as the option names might be different as well.
But if you hear someone say deployment server, it is very similar to what we were discussing in today's
video.
One more thing that I wanted to share is that in the earlier versions of Splunk here, the name was
Forwarder management.
It was not agent management.
So for example, if you discuss about Splunk eight you had option of forwarder management.
Now it is referred to as agent management.
And again there are slight changes in GUI as well as some features are also additionally added.
So naming convention is something that you have to be careful about.
So in case if you hear deployment servers in the documentation or in some older videos, you do not
really need to get confused.
So this is the basics of agent management.
I hope at an overview you have started to understand what it is all about.
In case if there are any confusions, then in the upcoming videos, we are going to discuss in more
detail about this specific feature along with practicals, and that will make things much more clear.
So that's the overview.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Important Concepts - Server Class and Deployment Apps ---

Hi everyone and welcome back.
So in today's video, we are going to discuss in more detail about the agent management in Splunk.
Specifically, we are going to discuss about the server class and deployment app.
If you understand the server class and deployment app, then the overall feature of agent management
will become much more simpler for you to understand internally.
Now, before we do that, if you remember in the earlier set of videos, we had set up the Splunk Universal
Forwarder and there were two important commands that we ran.
One was the Splunk ad monitor followed by the path, and second one was the Splunk ad server, followed
by the IP address of Splunk server, to which the logs needs to be sent to along with the port of 9997.
Now, although this is easy to understand, but one more thing that we need to know is that internally,
whenever you run this command, what Splunk will do behind the scenes, it will create a file called
as inputs dot conf with the exact path that you want to monitor.
It can be var very long.
It can be tmp app dot log.
Now since in this specific command we have add monitor tmp app dot log.
So even though you run the CLI command behind the scene, Splunk will go ahead and create a input.txt
conf file.
And within here you will have a monitor on this specific path over here in a similar way, in the second
command of Add forward server.
Forward server is a server to which the log needs to be forwarded to.
So here you define the log, but to which Splunk server the log needs to be forwarded to.
There must be some form of IP address of that Splunk server.
So this is where the second command comes into picture.
So when you run this command behind the scenes internally there will be one more file of outputs conf
that will be created.
And this outputs dot conf will have this specific IP address of Splunk server along with the port.
So this is one important point that we have to remember.
Now before we proceed further, let's go ahead and look into how exactly both of these get generated.
Again this is going to be a demo video.
Aim is to understand the concept.
Now for today's video I have Splunk that is set up and running in terminal tab one, and I have a universal
forwarder that is also up and running, and I'm currently connected to the instance where the universal
forwarder is set up.
Now, as we were discussing, generally when you install the universal forwarder, the first thing you
have to run is add monitor followed by the path which you want to monitor.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
Now.
Again you don't have to do it.
The reason I'm showing you is to understand this specific concept on how the inputs and outputs dot
conf gets created.
So let's go ahead and copy this.
Now in the universal forwarder instance, if I go ahead and whenever I run this specific command at
this stage it says path must be a file or directory.
That is fine.
It is primarily because I don't have the file called as app dot log.
All right.
So now let's go ahead and run this command again.
Great.
So this time you see added monitor of temp app dot log.
This is one part to note.
Now behind the scenes as we know there would be a inputs dot conf that would be created.
Let's go ahead and find it out.
So generally if you go to Splunk forwarder.
Oops we made a small typo.
Opt Splunk forwarder.
So within here if you grip.
So let's try and grep for the path of tmp app dot log.
And let's see where exactly it is added internally.
So here you see this is the path.
And the most important part is inputs dot conf.
So if I'll quickly do a cat in fact let's clear the screen.
If I do a cat here you see in the inputs dot conf automatically there is a monitor on the tmp app dot
log.
So this is the first thing that we were discussing.
Alright, so I hope you understood the first part.
The second part as we were discussing is whenever you add the forward server, then there will be a
outputs conf If that will be created.
Let's also try it out.
I'll copy this.
And within here I'll go ahead and I'll run this command.
So now what you are going to do, we are going to run the grep command again.
And this time we are going to search for the IP address of this which we had just added on this path.
And here you see there is a output dot conf that is created with this specific IP address of Splunk
followed by the port.
So in fact if I copy this you can run the cat.
And this is the configuration that is actually created behind the scenes whenever you run the CLI command.
Now it is not necessary to run the CLI command.
Even if you directly add this configuration in Splunk it is equivalent to the CLI command and Splunk
will forward the logs to this specific server.
Great.
So I hope with this the things that we discussed in the first slide are now clear.
Now comes the important part which are the two important terminologies in the agent management.
One is the deployment apps and second is the server class.
So whenever you configure the agent management the first thing is the forwarders.
You can see the list of universal forwarders that are connected.
Then you have the applications.
Then you have the server class.
So in today's video it is important for us to understand what these applications mean and what this
server class mean.
Before we do that, let me show you on where do you find this.
So in Splunk again I have already set it up because this is a demo video.
We will have a separate video.
So generally in the agent management the first step is related to forwarders.
Second tab is related to applications.
Third tab is related to server class.
Now forwarders is something that we already know.
These are the universal forwarders that are connected.
And you can also see the status associated with it.
So in today's video we are going to discuss about the applications and the server classes.
The first one is related to application and the title is the Deployment App at a high level.
Overview.
The deployment application is a set of content.
It is primarily the configuration file maintained on the agent management server.
So whatever Splunk instance is present that is acting as an agent management, the deployment app is
maintained over there, and from that it is deployed to all of the universal forwarders depending upon
the requirement.
Now let us understand what this deployment app does.
So generally let's consider that you have a deployment app of Linux underscore logs.
So now in this deployment app you can go ahead and define the inputs dot conf which will define what
are the log files that you want to monitor.
For example here you have defined that I want to monitor var log.
So this is something that you can define as part of this deployment app.
And then you can also define the outputs dot conf that once this log files are monitored to which Splunk
server do you want the logs to be forwarded to.
So this is the outputs dot conf.
Now again a deployment app can contain other configurations also.
But we are keeping it simple to the core that it can contain inputs dot conf and it can contain outputs
dot conf.
I hope you understand the importance of both inputs and outputs.
The second important area is the server class at an overview.
You can use the server class to map a group of agents to one or more deployment apps.
So let's say that you have created a deployment app of Linux underscore logs.
And this has the inputs and the outputs dot conf.
So in order to install this deployment apps to the universal forwarder agent, what you'll have to do
you need a server class.
So this server class will be connected to deployment app.
It will also be connected to the servers.
So to whatever servers the server class is connected to.
Depending upon the filters, this deployment app will get installed over here.
And then whatever logs that you are monitoring those logs will be collected and it will be sent to the
server that is part of the outputs dot conf.
Now again, note that it is not necessary that a server class needs to connect to all of the forwarders.
You can go ahead and create a filter which states that only this specific deployment app should only
go to the server one and server two.
So a lot of flexibility is available over here.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's have a small demo to understand this specific structure.
Now within the agent management as we can see we have one agent.
And the hostname here is App server zero one.
This is simple to understand.
Now if you look into the applications I have sample underscore app that is available.
Now this sample app the deployment status at this stage you see it says successfully deployed.
So in our example instead of sample app you can make use of Linux underscore logs.
And Linux logs will have inputs and outputs dot conf.
And this app will get deployed to the universal forwarder.
Whatever is available now will it get directly deployed?
The answer is no.
For the deployment app to be installed as part of the Universal Forwarder, you have a server class
which acts as a map.
So if you see you have server classes over here and you have Linux servers, windows servers, now Linux
logs, it needs to be connected to only Linux servers.
So in the Linux servers based server class, if you see you have this sample app that is connected.
So this is the first part for Linux servers.
There is a sample app or whatever app that you might have Linux logs.
It needs to be connected.
And this server class also connects to the forwarder.
So it is connected to App Server zero one.
Now what will happen is since this server class has one forwarder and one application, this sample
app will get deployed to the app server one based agent.
It is currently already deployed.
In fact, let me quickly show you.
So in the app server one that we have, let's quickly look into the path it is opt Splunk forwarder.
So when you go to etc. let's do a ls you have the folder of apps.
So let's go to apps.
Let's clear the screen I'll do a ls.
And here you should see sample app that is available.
So this sample app was deployed through the main Splunk server where the agent management is configured.
How can we verify.
Let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and do associate.
So we will associate the deployment app from the server class.
So now what will happen is this sample app will be removed.
So let's do one thing.
Let's click on Edit Application again.
Note this is a demo video.
We'll just remove whatever sample app was assigned to the server class and I'll click on save.
Alright, so for this server class now there is no application that is available.
So this is one part.
Now let's do one thing.
Let's go to the application over here.
So this application, it will now be removed from the universal forwarder that it was successfully deployed
to earlier.
So here let's clear the screen.
Let's run the LS command.
At this stage the sample app is still available.
It is fine.
It takes slight amount of time for this to work.
So let's quickly wait for a moment here.
So within here, let's quickly refresh.
At this stage you see the deployment status changed from successfully deployed to not deployed.
So now if I run the LS command over here, the sample app that was available, the sample app has been
removed in a similar way at a later stage, whenever you want to monitor some specific log file, you
can create a deployment app.
It can contain the necessary inputs.
Conf outputs dot conf.
Associate that deployment app to the appropriate server class and whatever agents or universal forwarders
are connected to that server class.
Your deployment app will go there and the logs will be pushed to the Splunk server.
Now, before we conclude, I also wanted to show you the high level workflow.
In fact, let's maximize this.
So generally in a production based instances in the agent management you can have multiple set of server
classes, for example Linux server, Windows Server and so on.
And this server class, each server class can be connected to specific set of universal forwarders.
All right.
So this Windows Server based server class will be associated with all of the instances which are related
to windows.
Similarly the Linux server class can be connected to all of the Linux specific agents.
We can configure which agents we want to be connected to the appropriate server class.
Let me also show you this.
So generally in the server class over here in the Linux servers over here, you can go ahead and edit
the forwarders.
So if you do not really want a specific forwarder you can also remove it.
Currently since I have added a wild card, this forwarder is associated with the Linux server.
However, if I say say test, if I do a preview then you see it.
This one is not matched only if I add an asterisk.
If I do a preview, the matching happens.
So a lot of flexibility is there.
You can use certain areas like hostname, IP address, DNS names.
You can filter by machine type also.
So all of the Linux servers will be connected to the Linux servers server class.
And windows machine will be connected to the Windows Server Server class.
Along with that, each server class, for example, this deployment type of Linux logs where we are
monitoring var log.
You do not really want it to be deployed to the windows agents.
So all of those configurations you will have to do properly.
So that right set of deployment app goes to the right set of agents based on the architecture.
So I hope at a high level overview, you understood the basics of server class as well as the deployment
apps.
And with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Practical - Agent Management ---

Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in the previous few videos we have been discussing about the basics of agent management along
with various important concepts related to it like server class, deployment apps, etc..
Now although we were having demo and understanding it theoretically, but the practical portion was
still missing.
So today is going to be the practical video where we'll go ahead and test the entire setup.
This will give us solid clarity.
Now for today's practical I have two servers.
One is the Splunk instance and second is where the universal forwarder is installed.
Now I have already configured both of them.
We have already done it in the previous videos as well.
So I hope you know the basic steps.
So let me quickly show you.
So this is our main Splunk server.
Again this is a fresh server that is currently running.
And from the terminal I am connected to both the servers.
One is the Splunk server where the main Splunk enterprise is installed, and second is Splunk Forwarder
where Splunk Universal Forwarder is installed.
Let me also quickly show you.
So if I say opt Splunk forwarder bin Splunk status.
Currently the Splunk De is running again.
This is very simple and we have already discussed about this in the previous set of videos as well.
Now what we are going to do as part of today's practical, since we are dealing with agent management
in Splunk Enterprise over here, if you go to the agent management, at this stage you have everything
as zero.
There are forwarders as zero, applications as zero, server classes as zero.
So you can go ahead and you can configure them.
So if you look into the overall architecture you have certain forwarders.
These forwarders will appear in the agent management over here.
Then you have the server class.
And inside the server class you can have the deployment apps.
So if you will see associated with the server class you can have the deployment tab.
and in the deployment tab you can have the inputs dot conf as well as outputs dot conf.
So this is one point that needs to be noted.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
First what we are going to do.
We are going to create the deployment app.
So let's go ahead and use the same name which is Linux Logs.
And for this deployment app we are going to create the inputs dot conf as well as outputs dot conf.
So the deployment apps it resides on the Splunk server.
This is very important.
So you don't have to directly create it in the forwarder.
So in the main Splunk Enterprise server you can go to opt Splunk.
Within your you have an important folder of Etsy.
So if you go to Etsy, if I do a ls over here you will see that there is a specific folder called as
deployment apps.
So these are the apps that will be deployed to the universal forwarder or to the other instances.
So in the deployment apps over here we have to go ahead and create our first app.
So currently you don't really have any app.
Let's go ahead and create an app called as Linux Underscore Logs.
Let's go over here.
And within this we'll create a folder of local and oops we have to create a folder of local.
And inside the local we are going to create two file.
One is input dot conf and second is output dot conf.
All right.
So if I do a list you have inputs dot conf and you have outputs dot conf.
Now in the inputs dot conf we have to have a stanza which monitors a specific file and in the outputs
dot conf you need to have stanza related to how and where the logs will be forwarded to.
Now we were discussing in the earlier video as well.
Whenever you run the CLI command this CLI command behind the scenes, it will create the necessary inputs
and outputs dot conf for us.
Now, just for simplicity, in my windows laptop I have the conf based configuration and the outputs
dot conf configuration that is already available.
We'll use this and we'll modify it based on our requirements.
I'll also be adding the contents of both of these after this video for you to reference.
So first is the inputs dot conf.
So within here you are monitoring this specific file called as tmp dot log.
So let's do one thing in the Splunk forwarder.
Let's go ahead and create this file say touch tmp app dot log.
And within here we'll just add a sample text.
Let's say hello world one.
All right.
So this is the file that we are going to monitor.
And in the outputs conf you have to replace this specific IP address with the IP of the Splunk instance.
So in my case, the IP address of the main Splunk server is this one.
This is the public IP.
So I have to make sure that I replace it in both the places.
This is the first part.
And also verify that 9997 port is available.
So from your Splunk Enterprise you can go to settings.
Click on Forwarding and Receiving in the Configure receiving.
Currently you don't have 9997.
In such cases you can just open the port 9997 so that the forwarder can send the logs over here.
All right.
So this is one important point to note.
Let's just verify again 9997 is open.
So this is the IP address.
And this is the port.
So let's go ahead and copy both of these.
Going to the Splunk server.
First we are going to use the VI to populate the inputs dot conf I'll press I so that I can paste the
contents.
will save the changes over here.
Similarly, we'll do a VI on outputs dot conf file.
Press I to insert in here.
Let's copy everything.
And we'll save the change.
All right.
So ultimately what will happen is this deployment app called as Linux underscore logs.
It will be forwarded to all of the universal forwarder based on what configuration you add in the server
class.
So this is one point to note.
Once you have added the configuration in the deployment apps, the next step is to go ahead and restart
Splunk.
So let's go ahead and do that I'll say opt Splunk bin Splunk restart.
All right.
So it took around a minute or two.
And as Splunk is restarted.
So let's go ahead and quickly connect to our Splunk instance again.
Let's sign in.
Great.
So at this stage, you have one application.
As we know, the name of the application is Linux Logs.
Now in the forwarders you do not really have any forwarders at this stage.
Let's go ahead and first configure the server classes.
So here let's click on new Server class.
The name of the server class.
Let's just call it as Linux Server.
Let's click on save.
Now in the server class you have forwarders and you have the applications.
So if you remember we were discussing that server class acts as a map between the forwarders and the
actual deployment app.
So both of these you will be able to configure.
So if you go to the server class also at this stage various aspects like system architecture is not
assigned.
That is fine.
So in fact let's go inside the server class.
First we'll go ahead and assign the application.
So I'll click on Edit Application and we have one app that is available.
We'll include it as part of the server class.
All right.
So this part is done.
So our server class is connected to the Linux underscore log deployment app that we have created.
Now we also have to connect the server class to the forwarder.
So again within here when you click on Edit Forwarders you have a lot of configurations.
For example you can specify the host name IP address or DNS name.
So whenever a new forwarder gets connected, depending upon the IP address and the DNS name, it will
automatically be associated with a specific server class.
It can be Linux servers, windows servers, etc..
Now, just for simplicity, I'm going to add a wildcard over here.
So all of the forwarders that gets connected, it will be associated with the Linux server class.
I'll go ahead and I'll save it.
All right.
So now the last part is we have to connect the forwarder to the agent management over here.
So something similar to this screenshot where you have certain forwarders that are connected.
We have to do the same.
Now in order to be able to do that, you have to run only one command as part of the Splunk forwarder.
Let's go ahead and run this.
You have to say opt Splunk forwarder bin Splunk set deploy pull.
Now you have to specify the IP address of the Splunk Enterprise.
So let's go ahead and copy the IP address followed by the port of 8089.
Once you have done that let's go ahead and press enter before you do that.
One thing that I wanted to show you.
If I do a list, let's in fact go to opt, Splunk, forwarder, etc. apps.
When I do a list over here, there are certain apps that are available, but are Linux logs app is currently
not available, so this is one point that you have to keep a note of.
Now let's go ahead and run this specific command.
Let's specify the username and the password.
And great.
That's about it.
So now what will happen is this specific universal forwarder will connect as part of the agent management.
So in the agent management in fact let's go back in the forwarders over here.
It takes a little amount of time.
Sometimes it can take 3 to 4 minutes for the universal forwarder to appear over here.
So let's quickly wait for a few minutes till the time the agent appears here.
So after two minutes, when I refresh, you see we have Splunk forwarder that is available over here.
The status is okay and things seems to be good.
Now when you look into the application over here in the deployment status it says successfully deployed.
So let's also verify this.
So earlier if you see there was no Linux Logs app that was available.
But now if I do a list, you see there is a Linux Logs app that is available.
And when we open this, in fact, let's do a list.
When you go to local, let's do a list.
You see you have the inputs and the outputs dot conf and both of them will have similar configuration.
So if I say cat inputs dot conf this is the configuration here as well as cat outputs dot conf.
This is the configuration over here.
Now let's go back to Splunk Enterprise in search and reporting.
Let's go to Data Summary.
At this stage you see it is still waiting for the results.
So the data is still not appearing over here.
Now generally what happens is whenever you deploy your app, ideally for some specific configurations,
a restart is also required as part of the forwarder.
So in fact let me also do that.
So I'll say opt Splunk forwarder bin Splunk restart.
So let's quickly wait for a moment for it to be restarted.
Now let's go ahead and quickly do a refresh.
If I go to data summary you see Splunk Forwarder is appearing and we had written Hello World in the
tmp app dot log.
This is also appearing.
Now one more thing that I wanted to share because we had done a manual restart.
However, whenever you're configuring a application as part of the agent management, you can configure
the application in such a way that it will automatically restart the universal forwarder for us so that
we don't have to do it manually.
For example, when I click on this specific app, you see there is a specific option of restart agent.
So you have to make sure that this specific option is set whenever you're configuring it in the production
servers so that you don't really have to go through this manual process.
However, the reason why we had not enable it at first place is because I wanted to show you both the
approaches so that in case if things are not working, you know the troubleshooting steps over here.
Great.
So I hope with this from practical perspective, you understood the basics of agent management and how
without having to manually add this specific line like add monitor, add forward server, etc., you
can just deploy the app with the appropriate inputs and outputs and automatically the appropriate log
files will be fetched.
So tomorrow, if you require to monitor new log files in the server, you don't really again have to
log into the server and run these commands.
In the app itself.
You can add the inputs and outputs.
You can edit it to monitor few more log files, and you can select the restart agent feature so that
the Universal Forwarder will receive the latest updates and the forwarder will also be restarted here.

--- Document - Practical Agent Management Code ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding Regular Expressions ---

Educator: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video,
we will be discussing about regular expressions.
Now regular expressions, which are
also referred as the Regex, is a very important topic,
specifically during the parsing of logs.
Basically, if you do not have a proper field extractions,
and if your logs are not parts, then it would be meaningless
and you'll not be able to find a needle in the haystack.
So this is the reason why having the understanding
of regular expressions is important.
And in today's video we'll have a high level overview
about regular expressions.
Now regular expressions also refers as Regex,
is a sequence of character that defines a search pattern.
Now this is a very simple search pattern,
which says there is a rainbow which arises
on south shore of Mumbai.
Now if you'll see, over here, when I just type rainbow,
so this is refer to as the literal character,
which means just literally find me
this specific word within this sentence,
so also refer as a little character.
However, there is also something,
which is referred as meta character.
So meta character is a character
or a sequence of characters that has a special meaning,
which provides information about other characters.
So there are various meta characters that you can use
in your regular expression.
Definitely this is a very small list.
There are dedicated books written
for regular expressions, but in today's video,
we'll just cover the high level overview basics
so that you know when we look into regular expressions,
which are built-in in various plunk add-ons,
we should not get confused there.
So let's do one thing.
I'll copy this sentence, and I'll paste in this website,
which is regex101.com.
So what you basically do, you paste your string here,
and you can write your regular expression,
and it'll show you the matching information.
Now on the right hand side,
it has certain health document
where you can go with meta sequences,
general tokens, you can go with all tokens.
So you want to see what are the Regex that you can use.
This is a nice reference here.
So as we had already discussed, if you just type rainbow
over here, so it'll just match a literal character.
So this is basically a literal character, which is rainbow.
However, this is something which is quite easy
and everyone of us already knows about it.
So the first thing that we'll be looking into
is the D\D and \W.
So \W basically stands for any word.
It can be capital A to Z, small a to z, or 0 to 9.
So if, if I do a \W,
basically you will see
it is capturing each and every individual word.
So let me do one more time,
and it has capturing two words now.
So if you want to capture the first, which is there
which basically contains five words.
So you can type
W-W-W five times.
So basically it will only capture any word
which contains five characters.
So on the right hand side, you see it's,
it is matching there, it is matching rainb
which arise south shore and M-U-M-B-A.
So if I just do one more W, now you see it has
captured the entire Mumbai word.
So this is something that you can use.
Now, instead of typing this entire string,
what you can do is you can say like this.
So within the brackets, you can put five,
and the meaning would actually be the same.
So if I put six over here, now you see entire string
is been captured, so you don't really have to
write a super long regular expressions.
So let me remove this.
Now you can use something
like A to Z within your square brackets.
So what this will basically do is it will match
any character which is A to Z between A to Z in capital.
So you see the capital T has been highlighted
capital R, capital M, and so on.
Now if I replace it with small a to z
it will basically start to capture the small ones.
It will not capture any capital character which is present.
You can also do something like this.
So what will happen here is that it will not capture
anything which is between A to Z over here, right?
So, so this is like, it will not capture anything,
which is in small case a to z.
Now, you can also change to something like capital A to Z
and basically within the full match over here,
you'll get everything except the characters
or the words which are starting with a capital A to Z.
So this is something that you can utilize.
So this is the basics on very basics of regular expression.
I hope you, you started to understand the basic
on what regular expressions are.
So within our first example,
this example contains sample data, which has the,
which has the use case of matching phone numbers.
So I have two phone number over here,
and my aim is to match, write a regular expression
which can match both of these number lists.
So let me copy this up,
and I'll remove the regular expressions,
and I'll paste the phone numbers over here.
So basically you need to write a regular expression
which can match both of these numbers.
Now, if you look into the list here for any word
you can do \w for any digit.
You can directly even use \D.
So if I do a \D, you see it,
it starts to capture individual digit.
Let me try one more time and let me try one more time.
Alright, so now you have the first three digit
which is 125, 459, 955.
So there'll be six matches that you would typically see.
Now, in order to match the first expression over here
that contains a hyphen, so I, I'll say hyphen,
and if I do D-D-D and let me put one more hyphen,
I say DDD. So basically this will have a full match
on the first data sample, but since the second data sample
does not really have any hyphen,
basically the second one will not match.
However, this is something that we do not need.
So basically what you do is
you have a special meta character, call this a dot.
Dot basically signifies any character.
Alright, a very important part to remember.
So instead of hyphen, you can put a dot here,
and instead of hyphen here, you can put a dot.
So now you see both of them are now matching
because your dot basically signifies any character.
So let's add one more sample, say 120, 150, 200.
Now you see it also got matched primarily.
So it might happen that this is not a phone number,
but since you have added a dot here, a dot matches hyphen
it can match this specific dot character.
It can match the asterick character as well.
So in case, so let's say for example
this is not a phone number
and you just want to match the first and the second one,
you don't want to match this specific ones.
So what you, what the requirement is that
any number which contains hyphen or dot,
only those need to be counted.
You do not want this specific sample data to be counted.
So if you look into our sample graph,
you have square brackets,
it says matches characters in brackets.
So basically what you can do here is that
after your three digit, you can add a hyphen,
you can add a dot, and let me remove a dot here.
And what it basically does is that after three digits,
it will look for either hyphen or either dot.
And here you see it only captures
the first and the second one,
it does not really capture the third one.
So this is the regular expression that you can utilize.
Now, just to optimize this further,
you can even make use of other brackets
which actually makes things much more easier to understand.
It does not really.
So let's quickly do that.
I'll replace by three and
I'll replace by three again.
So now you see it becomes much more easier,
and it becomes much more smaller
rather than writing \D multiple times.
So this is a much more efficient regular expressions.
So in our example too, we have a sample data over here.
So this is a sample data, and we basically need
to write a regular expression
which can match the entire data set wire.
So let's do one thing.
I'll copy the entire data set,
and I'll paste it within a regular expression editor.
So let's go ahead and write a regular expression here.
So the very first thing that maybe you can do is
if you type M-R, you'll see that it is matching
the first four sample data.
However, the challenge there is that
in the first sample data you have a dot.
In the second you do not have a dot.
In the third you have M-R-S,
and in the fourth you have M-R, followed by letter L,
and in the fifth you have M-S.
So what you want to do,
let's say you want to match this specific sample data.
Now we have already discussed that
if you use a dot, dot basically means any character.
So if I use a dot over here
it actually matches various sample data
because it also considers space, and it also considers
this sample where you have a S over here, which is M-R-S.
So if you just want to match this specific string
what you need to do is you have to do a escape sequence.
So escape sequence. So basically,
if you just want to actually capture the dot character,
this is where you can do a escape sequence,
and you can put a dot over here.
Now this will only match this.
Now what you basically want to achieve is
that you not only want to match this,
but you also want to match the data
which does not have this dot.
So you can put the question mark over here,
and it will start to capture the data
which does not have a dot.
So this basically means capture anything,
which is M-R, dot, or it does not have a dot.
Alright? Now after M-R, basically you have a space.
So for space, you have the \S.
So the \S basically is for white space.
So what we'll do is, we'll do white \S.
Now you see, it, that space has been accounted for.
So now, after space, you see I have Z, I have Hursh.
So basically these are, can be considered as a word.
So if I put a \W, it has started to capture
the first character which is Z-H-L.
However, it might happen that you have the entire word.
So what you can do is you can make use of plus.
So when you make use of plus,
you see it actually considered the entire characters
which are after the specific R-W, which is here.
Mr. L also is considered.
Now you can even use asterisk depending upon the use case
you can use one of them.
So we'll use word, and some of them are now highlighted.
But if you see over here, the expression M-R-S Surica
and M-S Alice is not been accounted for.
So basically what we want is we want to have
a regular expression, which can even fulfill
the M-R-S and the M-S field.
So what you can basically do is you can create a group
which basically says anything, which starts with M.
And after M, it can have R, it can have S, it can have R-S.
And once you do this, you see you, you have
Mr. Z, Mr. Hursh, Ms. Soreka, Mr. L, and Ms. Alice.
So all of these are being accounted for.
So you have Mr. Ellis, Mr. L, Soreka, Hursh, and Mr. Z.
So this is all condition basically that you are putting.
So these are certain basics
of what regular expressions are.
Now when you learned regular expression,
there are entire books
which are dedicated for regular expressions
and we basically do not want to do entire quotes
on a regular expression right now
because this course is not dedicated for that.
But we did the basic ones
so that when we see a regular expression,
we should not get confused on what exactly it is all about.
And this is the reason why I decided to have a basic video
so that we understand what these regular expressions
are all about. So this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you, and again,
I'll be posting the samples that we have been testing
with below the video so that you can try it out yourself
and practice it.
Now again, there are a lot of tutorials
which are available for Regex, both in YouTube,
both in Google as well,
so you can try them out and improve your Regex skills.
So with this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you,
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Regex - Exercise ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Parsing Web Server Logs & Named Group Expression ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we'll have a high level overview
about the parsing of web server logs.
Now generally, whenever you import data in Splunk
there are two ways in which you can do the parsing.
The first is you can write your own custom add-on
which contains your own created regex
which parses the data,
or else if you do not want to go about this,
what you can do is you can search
through the Splunk base,
check whether there are already add-on
which have been built by Splunk or some third party vendor,
and you can use that directly within your Splunk instance.
So basically we have a sample log data.
So in any organization,
web server logs is something which is pretty common
and I have a sample web server logs over here.
Now, parsing the entire log set is something
that is not the primary goal of today's video.
The primary goal of today's video is to see
on how add-on has the regex inbuilt
which contains the parsing of logs,
as well as we look into certain naming base groups
featured in regex, which allows us to have a much more
better understanding of the logs which are parsed.
So with this, let's go to our regex101.com
and I have a sample web server log,
which is parsed over here.
So basically now I think we should already know
on how we can get the basics done.
So if I do a W+, it'll match 93.
So after 93, you have a dot here, so I'll add a dot,
then you do a W+.
Again, you put a dot W+, dot W+.
Perfect. So now within the match information
you see my IP address have got matched.
Along with that, there are a lot of other fields
which have also got matched,
but the primary aim of this expression
was to match this string.
So we do not want to, we will write a separate regex
for other things, but for my IP address parsing,
this is the regex that I want to, right.
So what you can do is you can add here.
So now since you added this, you only have the IP address.
So anything that starts with,
so basically this asserts a position,
so like a start off line.
So anything that starts with this regular expression
is something which gets matched over here.
So now that we have our IP address matched,
you have a space over here if you would see,
so I'll add a space.
After space you have a hyphen.
After hyphen you have a space,
then again, a hyphen,
then again, a space.
Oops, I think we did a mistake.
I'll add a hyphen and I have a space.
Now after this, you see you have a square bracket over here.
Now you cannot really have a square bracket
because this again, is like a expression.
So what you have to do
is you have to do a escape sequence here.
So in order to do a escape sequence,
I'll do a back slash and I'll put a square bracket.
So now you'll see this got selected,
So this string got selected.
Now you have a word,
so let me do a word plus.
You again have a slash over here,
so you have to escape it.
So now you see a slash has been added.
Now you again have a word,
so I'll do a W+.
Again, you escape a slash here,
again, you have a word, I'll do a W+.
And currently till 2015 it got matched.
So after this, you have a colon.
After colon, again, I can do a W+, a colon,
W+ again, colon W+.
Now you have space.
So I'll add a space, you have a plus.
Or what you can do instead
is you can escape this character and do a W+.
Perfect. So now if you see my entire,
at least this sample data got parsed
with my specific regular expression.
However, this does not make really sense.
If you'll see, even though it has been in the output,
you cannot really have a meaningful information.
So what we might want is we want
this specific group to be named as IP address.
Now this specific group
should be named as timestamp and so on.
So basically this is something
that we'll be looking into now.
Now named capturing group
basically makes the understanding of parsed data
in much more easier to understand manner.
Now, typically whenever you will look into Splunk add-ons,
specifically the Splunk built add-ons,
you will see that named capturing group is used extensively.
Now, of the sample syntax here is you have a group here,
you have a question mark followed by you give a name,
followed by the regex.
Now I'll quickly show you, it will not make sense now
but once we add it to our sample data,
it'll make much more better sense.
So this is the sample.
So now what we can do over here,
let me add a square brackets.
So I just want data to be parsed til IP address, right?
So I'll add a square brackets here
and I'll add a question mark and let me give a name.
I'll say name as source_ip.
Say source_ip.
All right,
and let me quickly remove this.
And within this you'll see
there is a new group, colorsSRC_ip,
and it has this specific information.
So now if you create a named group-based conventions
in your regex, it really,
so anyone who is reading a regex,
for him, it'll become very simple.
So he'll know, okay, this is the source IP
and then you have a regex for each and every one of them,
and it'll become much more simple.
So this is one important aspect
that you need to remember whenever you are writing a regex.
Now what we'll do is let's go to Splunkbase.splunk.com.
And since we are discussing about the web server log,
let's find an add-on for NGINX.
So you have a Splunk add-on for NGINX
which is present over here.
Go ahead and download this add-on in your workstation
and we'll look into how this add-on
parses the web server logs.
So I have my add-on within my test directory.
So this is Splunk add-on for NGINX.
I'll go ahead and I'll extract the add-on here.
So within the add-on, I have a lot of directories.
We'll keep it simple.
Let's go to the default directory
and there is a file called transforms.conif
So let's quickly open this file with our Atom editor.
Now, if you'll open the transforms.conif
you will see within the NGINX_main_extract,
you have a regex
which basically matches the common NGINX logging format,
and this is the regex that is part of the add-on.
And now if you'll see this regex,
it becomes easier for us to understand
because what they have done extensively is
that they have followed the named capturing group.
So you have the named capturing group for source IP address,
you have user, you have request time,
request method, and others.
So if I copy this regex here,
let's copy this regex entirely.
And within this, I'll paste the regex here, let me paste it.
And you will see everything got matched.
And on the right hand side you have the full match
and then you have the source IP address.
If you look into the filled up field
you have a request time,
you have the request method which is GET,
the access request, so this is the URL
which is /download/product_1.
The protocol is http, response code is 304
and the user agent is Debian.
So now you see it becomes very easy
for anyone who is reading this specific match information
to understand what this individual fields are,
and this is the right way of writing the regex.
So this is something that I wanted to show you
within this video.
So this is it about today's video.
Again, I'll be posting the sample of web server log
that we were using to parse,
below the video so that you can download it
and you can try parsing it to yourself.
So this is it.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Sample - Web Server Logs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Importance of Source Types ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be discussing about some
of the importance with the source type field that you
generally set within your logs.
Now, one important part to remember is that in Splunk field
extractions are generally defined at a source type level.
This is one important part to remember.
Unless you are putting something like Reg X
on the SPL command at the global level,
they can be defined at the props dot conif as well as
transforms dot conif file.
Now if your source type for your log fight is incorrect
then it'll not get passed properly and a Splunk comes
with certain built in source type and its associated logs
or I would say associated Reg X for common logs
that you see like Apache and and similar.
So let's directly jump to practical to understand this
in a much more better way.
So I'm in my search and reporting app.
Let's go here and let's filter by source type
is equal to access combined.
So during the earlier section we had imported
some sample logs of type Apache
so it had a source type of access underscore combined.
Now if you'll see over here
all of these logs are extracted properly.
So now you have a proper field name
on the left and you have the associated value on the right.
That means that the field extractions has been done properly
Now let's do one thing.
Let's import the same logs
however this time we'll put it in a different source type.
So let's do that quickly.
So I'll go to add data
and we'll upload the relevant access dot log file.
So I have my access dot log file
closed around four mb
sounds good enough.
I'll upload that.
And in the next screen
basically you will have to select a source type here.
Now it automatically detected a source type
which is access underscore combine.
But what I intended to show is what happens
if you select a
not correct source type.
So currently if you go into the source type
you will see that a lot
of source types are divided into certain categories
like database has source type associated with MySQL
slow query with the MySQL Lead D, then
you have email specific source type
application specific source type and various others.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go to settings.
We'll go to source types
and we'll be creating our own source type here.
So on the left hand side you see there are a lot
of source types which are present.
So these are the default source type, which generally comes
with Splunk as we have already discussed.
Splunk does come with basic source types
for common log files that you will find
in most of the organizations.
So we'll create a new source type.
Let's name this as KP Labs
underscore demo.
Alright,
and even break.
Let's set it at every line and we'll click on save.
So once we do that, we'll have to refresh the page.
Basically it will not appear directly.
So I'll just quickly re-upload the access dot log file
and this time we'll look go into the custom and
within custom category you have a KP Labs underscore demo.
So this is the source type that we are giving.
I'll go to next and host value
you can just give it whatever you intend to.
Let's put it in a separate index.
I'll say the index name would be demo source type
and I'll click on save, go to review and click on submit.
So once you have a file uploaded successfully
let's click on start searching
and it will select the index that we just created.
Alright, so this is the index that we just created.
Now if you try to open this up
you see not everything gets extracted over here.
So when you compared with the access combined source type
you will see that very few things
are being extracted over here
and this is not what is intended.
Basically what you want is
that each and every item here should be extracted.
And since you do not have it in a right source type
the Splunk will not extract that.
Now coming back
to the topic of the access combined source type
that we were speaking about,
let's do that once again.
So I'll say source type is equal to access combined.
The timeline I'll give it as all time.
And if I just open this up, you will see each
and every field is extracted and every field also
has a appropriate filling, which is easy to understand.
Now all of these things are basically
if it comes from props dot conif
as well as transforms dot conif
So let's, let's find it out
and look into where exactly those aspects would be stored.
So one thing is you can directly go to the CLI as well
but let's start with the high level and click
on access and this code combine
and you go to advance.
You see that it has certain configurations
which are being set
including there is a file
or a value call is access hypha extractions.
So if you quickly go to CLI here
now I'm in my directory of OTs, Splunk, ETC system default
And let's go to transforms dot conif.
And basically within this file you should see a field
call as access hyphen extraction.
So let's copy this up and
I'll do a search.
Let's go a bit down and you will see
that there is a appropriate Reg X for that.
Now this Reg X is specifically called
if the source type is access under score combined.
So only then this specific Reg X will be called.
However, if you give a source type which is not
access combined like we did like AP labs demo
then all of these configuration settings that we have
they will not work.
And hence your data will not get extracted.
And this is the reason why it is important to have
a right source type defined whenever you upload a log file.
So this is it about today's video.
Again, we'll be discussing in detail about props dot conif
and transforms dot conif in the relevant section.
But for this video
I'd just like to share the importance of setting
up a right source type for your log files that you upload.
So this is it about this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Interactive Field Extractor (IFX) ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing
about Splunk's Interactive Field Extractor,
which is also referred as the IFX.
Now typically whenever you want to extract fields
within your log data, regex writing is the ideal way.
However many times if you want to quickly wrap up things
or if the log file has a simple pattern,
then the Interactive Field Extractor can do things quickly
for you.
Now, Interactive Field Extractor basically
allows us to teach Splunk on how to extract fields
from your data, without really writing your regex.
So in the earlier few videos we have been writing regex
and we were looking into how our Splunk
is actually extracting the data based on the regex.
However, in today's video we'll look
into how we can make things work
without really writing those complex regex.
Now if you remember in the earlier video,
we had basically created a index scholars demo source type
and we also had uploaded a sample access log,
a purchase sample access log.
Now if you'll see here,
not every field is extracted over here.
So for example, if you see over here,
the first field is the IP address.
Now, within here, you cannot really see any IP address
portion being extracted.
Now the reason for this is because
first it is not in the right source type,
where you have a proper regular expression.
And second thing is you do not have a regex
for this specific source type.
So let's look into how we can make use of
Interactive Field Extractor to at least have
a better feel extractions than what we have right now.
So in order to do that,
what you need to do is you have to
click on extract new fields
and this will bring up a new page.
Now within this new page,
you have to select a sample log file.
So I'll just click on one sample log
and it has brought that sample log
and you can click on next.
On the next, you have two options.
One is either you can write a regular expression
that can pass the field for you,
or you can do it based on delimiter.
So we do the delimiter way and we'll select next.
Now in the Rename fields,
you see there are certain delimiters that you can use.
One is space, comma, tab, pipe, and others.
So let's select space over here.
And as soon as I selected space, you see how well
the log file got extracted.
So now you have the IP address, you have field 2,
field 3, you have the timestamp, you have the request.
Basically this is the URI, it contains the request URI.
You have the response code,
you have the bytes and various others.
So from here you can even put a field name.
So let's put src_IP.
I'll rename this field.
I'll rename the fourth field as timestamp.
I'll rename the field five, let's say as request code.
The field six, I'll say as response code.
And that's about it.
This is the only thing that we'll do as of now.
Now if you go a little bit down,
you'll see I have src_IP here
and it has extracted the source IP.
You have timestamp.
The reason why you have a hyphen here is
because within the log file you don't really
have any value associated here.
So you have source IP, you have timestamp,
you have request code.
So this is something that we're setting up here.
So what you can do now is you can click on next.
Again, in case if you want to rename each and every field,
you can do that.
But just for our demo, we are just renaming certain fields.
So I'll go ahead, I'll do a next.
Now you have to give a extraction name over here.
So let me say as demo data.
And the permissions,
I'll just give it as all apps and I'll click on finish.
So once you have click on finish,
you can go back to the search and reporting app
and you can put the index as equal to demo source type.
Perfect.
So now that we have our data loaded,
now if you try to open this up, you see now much more.
The field extraction is much more better.
So you have src_IP.
So you have 182.
You have response code.
You have certain fields that you had not named it earlier
but this is something that you can always do.
Now, if you quickly want to see the list of IP address,
you can do a stats count by src_IP.
And now you say you have the list of IP addresses
which are part of the combined log.
So one thing that I wanted to share is
not all the time writing regex would make sense.
So typically in this example, we saw how quickly,
we were able to extract the relevant feeds
with the Interactive Field Extractor.
And it is much more faster.
And if you quickly want to analyze some data
which has simple kind of a format, then IFX makes sense.
It is much more faster.
However, on the production side,
it's always recommended to a use regular expressions.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you.
And if you have any doubts, questions, suggestions,
feel free to connect us at Twitter, Facebook or LinkedIn
or mail us at instructors@kplabs.in.
Thanks for watching.

--- props.conf and transforms.conf ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
So before we begin the video
I would just like to share that today's
Diwali here in India.
So happy Diwali to all of the viewers who are watching.
Now you might hear a bit of music in the background.
This is primarily because it's running everywhere.
So I tried my best to isolate things
but you might hear a little background music.
So anyways, you can ignore that.
So today's topic is about props and transform.conf.
So during your projects and assignments
of Splunk props and transforms.conf
is something that be working quite often on a regular basis.
So let's go ahead and understand both of them.
Now generally the default installation of Splunk
it comes with a certain default sort types
and it's associated field extractions
for various common log files.
Like it can be Catalina
it can be access combined and others.
So we do have flexibility to create
our own source type as well.
So generally whenever we create our own source type
we have to put its associated configuration settings.
And this associated configuration settings are generally
put in props.conf and transforms.conf file.
So let's understand this
with a simple example so that it'll make sense.
So I'm in my Splunk and if you go to settings
on the right hand side there is a feel of source types.
Now if you'll see on the left hand side
there are various source types which are available.
So these source types are the one which comes
with Splunk by default.
So let's open up the access underscore combined source type.
And it has certain settings,
like if you see event breaks is every line
then if you go into timestamp then the timestamp prefix.
So this is the prefix that you have for timestamp.
So if you look into the access combined log file
understand what this is and
if you go into the add one settings,
you'll see that this specific source type
of access underscore combined has
various configuration settings associated with it.
One is car set is a UTF eight.
You have report hyphen access
which is access hyphen extractions.
You have time prefix, you have category
you have no binary check is true
and you can add various other configuration
settings which are required for your source.
So let's understand on how exactly this might work.
So we'll take this specific setting which is
report hyphen access.
And the value is access hyphen extraction.
So let's look into what exactly
this specific configuration setting does.
So I am in my Splunk.
So let's go to OTs, Splunk ATC system.
And since we know that there are certain default
source types which comes pre-built
we need to go into the default directory.
Now, within the default directory there are two files.
One if you will see here, one is props.conf
and second is transforms.conf.
So let's open up props.conf
and see on what are aspects that it contains.
So we'll go a bit down and
if you'll see every source type is associated
with a source type name and they have certain
configuration settings which are associated.
So we'll be looking into access underscore combine
and we'll look into one more for ease of understanding.
So let's go a bit down.
Perfect.
So this is the access underscore combined source type.
Now typically whatever configurations
that you would generally give here in the,
you can do anything via g I as well as C A.
Not anything we are gy
but everything we have ELI or through configuration files
which is the features supported by Splunk.
And generally whatever configuration settings
that you give here, they get stored
in the file call props.conf.
And if you'll see you have report hyphen access
is equal to access hyphen extractions.
So what is basically mean is that
since this is a source type and we know
that every source type needs to have certain RegXs
so that the file that you input it needs to be extracted
so that RegX is defined
in access under code extractions feel
which is present in the transforms dot corner.
So this is what it basically means.
So now if you open up the transforms.conf
within the access restrictions, let's go a bit down
you will see that there is a access hyphen extractions
and it has the RegX associated with the field type
which is access underscore combined source type.
So all of those regs x can be defined
within the transforms.conf.
Now one important part to remember is
that you can define the regular expressions
in props dot con of as well but
if you do a transforms.conf then it can be used
by multiple other props.conf aspects as well.
So this is considered
as a best practice where what you do is you say report.
So this is like a function report hyphen fund access
and you specify the the the global parameter
which is access hyphen extractions
which will have the actual regular expression
which will be used to extract access underscore
combined source type.
Great.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's clone this, we'll do a clone here
and I'll say access underscore combined underscore test.
Now everything is a colonial.
Now one thing that we'll do is access hyphen extractions.
We'll change it to access hyphen extractions hyphen test.
Alright, we'll go ahead and we'll save this.
Perfect.
So now you have access high underscore
combined underscore test.
Now since this is a modified value
it'll not be present within the default.
We'll have to go to local and if I do a ls, you will see
that there is a new file call list props.conf.
Now if you open up the props.conf here, you'll see
the configuration settings remains the same.
One thing that we edited over here is report hyphen access
and it has access hyphen extractions hyphen test.
Great.
So this is the basics.
Now if you remember
we do not have a transforms.conf associated with it.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and import some data
and look into whether it gets extracted or not.
So I'll add the access dot log file
and this time it automatically detects the source type.
However we want to have a custom source type.
Now the source type which we created since we cloned it
it should be under the category of web.
And if you'll see your access underscore
combined underscore test, now we'll go ahead
and click on next index.
Let's just put it in the default index
for now and I'll go ahead and I'll click on submit.
So now when you do a start searching
and you'll see not every feel has been extracted over.
So one sample is, let's take the first fill
which is the IP address
and you'll see the IP address is not extracted.
The reason why it is not extracted is
because we do not have our
we have basically defined report
which is a like a function hyphen access.
And we had said that this is the parameter name
which will have the regular inspections
but we do not really have this parameter name defined
in the transforms.conf at all.
And this is the reason why it is failing.
So in order to have the feel extracted
we need to create a transforms.conf
and it should have this global parameter which
would have its associated regular expressions.
So let's do one thing, let's do a cat and we'll open
up default and we'll see the transforms.conf.
Now within transforms.conf the value
that we are need right now is the regular expressions.
So this is the access hyphen extractions parameter.
Let's copy this entirely.
And what I'll do is within the local
I'll say nano
transforms.conf and basically
I'll just paste everything here.
So this basically it includes the regular expressions
and we have to change this to access hyphen extractions
hyphen test.
So now let's quickly verify whether it was hyphen test
and it was hyphen test.
Great.
So this is basically what is needed.
Now if you just press search again
and you try to open up the field,
you see, and now other fields are much
more better.
So you have the client IP address, you have item id
the product request, et cetera, which has been
coming in perfectly as we had ex expected.
So this is what the props and transforms.conf is all about.
However, in order to understand better, let's take
one more example and look into one more function
which is within the default source type.
So let's go to the source type
And let's look into MySQL this time.
So there are a lot of source.
Type one is MySQL D underscore error.
So let me open this up and if you go into advance
again it has a certain configuration parameters.
Now one configuration parameter
that we can take is break only before.
Now this is a interesting configuration parameter.
So let's look into how exactly this might work like
so I have a sample mySQL underscore error file
and if you'll see, oh this is the format where
now basically when you push this format to Splunk
Splunk should know which is an individual event.
So the first line is of one individual event.
Then you have the second individual event here
which is panning across two length.
Then you're the third individual event here
and you have the fourth individual event here.
Now house Splunk will know that there are four events.
So there should be a way in which Splunk can identified
that this tool line is a single individual event
and the waste Splunk does is
through the parameter of break only before
and it has the regular expression which has digit.
And how many digits are there?
There are six digit.
So if you'll see in every mice error log the it starts
with a six digit number year
and this six digit number is something which you
your configuration will look into and it'll break.
So as soon as it finds a six digit number
it'll consider the entire line which starts
with that six digit number as an individual event.
So even though if you have a five
six line of such events here, it'll not matter
Splunk will be able to identify
that the five six line is a single event here.
So that is what this is all about.
Now in order to try it out
let's try it out because nothing really sinks in unless
and we really do practical that is the best way to learn.
So what I'll do, let me do a clone here.
I'll say MySQL D underscore error underscore test.
Alright?
And this time within the a advance
will remove this parameter break only
before we can remove this parameter
or we cannot remove this parameter or let's do anything
let's go the easy way right now.
Let's go to add data.
We'll we'll just find a easy way to do things.
This is something that you can write out in
the practical aspect.
So I'll upload the data here and this thing I
have selected mySQL underscore error do THD file.
Now if I do a next year, basically what Splunk
will do is it'll not be able to identify this.
So this is the reason why you'll see it has
taken all the data
within the mySQL error dot thd file as a single event here.
Now the reason why is because Splunk has not been able
to identify the source type.
And since the source type
of mySQL underscore error had a specific configuration
with says that it needs to look for this RegX
and it has to break event when it finds this RegX
as the start of the line.
So this is the reason why it is not able to
break events right now, but as soon as soon
as you configure the right configuration
let's find the database one, I'll go to
database this time let's select MySQL D underscore error.
Now you see the events are breaked accordingly.
So this is the importance
of break underscore only underscore before
and this is the RegX.
Now similar to this, every configuration that you
see over here has its appropriate importance.
So in case if you want to understand what each one
of this is, let's take break only before and basically
within the props dot corner of documentation of Splunk.
So this is how the documentation looks like.
Now what they have done is they have defined everything
within this file.
So what you can do is you can do a control F and you
can basically specify which one you are interested to learn.
So I say break only before
let's go down and you say it says when sets
Splunk software creates a new event, only if it
encounters a new line that matches the regular expressions.
So we already tested it on how exactly it looks like.
So anytime if you come across certain configuration
parameter which you are not understanding
you can go to prop dot documentation, do a control F search
for that specific a key, and you will have the documentation
within the Tabler box itself.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope you understood the basics of what props.conf is
as well as what transforms.conf is
and importance of various fields the key value pairs
which you define in props.conf
if when the events are added to these Splunk.
So with this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Sample Log - MySQL Error Logs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Splunk Event Types ---

Instructor: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be discussing about the basics
related to Splunk event types.
Now event types are basically categorization
which can help you make sense of your data.
So let's understand this with an example.
So let's assume you write a query where you have source
type is equal to access underscore combine status is equal
to 200, and action is equal to purchase.
So this can mean that someone has purchased your product
and the status of 200, which which means it was a success.
Now what you can do is you can
save this as a event type call it
success_purchase.
And what you can do is instead of writing the entire query
you can just do a event type physical to success
underscore purchase and you'll get all the result
which has this specific events.
Now do remember this is not,
although it might look similar to saved search,
it is not because any event that gets returned,
it'll have the success_purchase feed associated with it.
So let's understand this with a practical example
because that is what will make sense.
So I'm in my Splunk, I'll go to the search and reporting app
and let's quickly wait and let's say
source type is equal to-
Linux_secure.
I'll do a time range of all time
and currently using you have various events
like failed password for invalid user
then you have failed password for route.
So there is a difference between both of them.
Failed password for invalid user means
that someone is trying to log into the machine
with the user which does not exist.
And failed password for route basically means that
the user is already existing
and someone is trying to brute force into that.
So you can write a query which is similar to that.
So let's say I'll say fail
I'll type fail and I'll have invalid user.
So now you'll have all the events which contains
invalid user.
So now what you can do is you can save
this as a event type here and let's say I put it
as invalid_user and we'll click on save.
Now similar to that let's go back to Linux_secure.
Now if you go a bit down
you would see that there is a event type field.
Now within the event type field you have something called
as the invalid user.
So what it basically means
that when whenever someone does a source type
as you call it Linux Secure, something similar to that
they will be able to see just from the event type
they'll be able to see a graph on how many
of logs in total have invalid user kind of attempt.
So from entire Linux_secure you have 59.7%
of the lock type which are off invalid_users.
So it really makes much more easier
for anyone to understand who is reading your lock file.
So for them, if they just look into the event type
and they see okay, there is a failed login of these many,
there are successful logins.
If they just see from event type,
it just makes much more simpler sense.
So similar to this, let's create one more event type.
So you would be creating event type
for let's say session open.
Let's quickly find if you have event which has this data.
Perfect. So Session Open is like someone has logged in
or created a session via SSH.
So now what you can do, you can save this as a event type.
I'll say success log logins
and I'll click on save.
Now if you just do a source type Linux_secure
and if you just go by event type,
you see that out of total events
you have 5.28% success logins
and you also have a fail login is 82%.
Now, in case you are wondering where this failed login
came from it came from the event types
which are prebuilt by Splunk.
So if you go to settings and if you go to event types
you see there are so many event types
which are already pre-built by Splunk.
So you have free disc space.
So this is a event type based on Windows logs.
So you have a source type of WMI and so on.
So there are a lot of event types
which are already pre-built by Splunk
and hence it really becomes simpler for anyone
who is looking into your log file
to make some meaningful information.
So with this I hope you understood the difference
between what saved searches and what event type is.
Although with event types, the great benefit is that
if you just do a source type Linux_secure
and you click on event type you can quickly see
how many fail logins are there,
how many successful logins are there.
So you don't really have to write any additional query.
Everything comes from the event type.
So with this, there are certain limitation
of event types that we need to understand.
First limitation is that it cannot include a pipe
operator after a simple search and you cannot
have a sub search as well with event types.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you and I
look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Tags ---

Instructor: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing about tags.
Now, a tags feature in Splunk basically allows us to
assign names to specific field and value combination
which can be even type, host, source, or even source type.
So, let's understand this with a simple use case
where tags will be useful.
So, you have your network logs
and it has various IP addresses
which belongs to three subnets
which is 192.160.10.0, 10.77.00.16, and 10.66.00.16.
So, typically network logs,
if you see some IP addresses, which belongs to this subnet
a typical analyst will not understand
whether it is a dev, fraud or staging.
So, what he'll do is he might refer to a documentation
which the network team has provided
and from there he'll be able to analyze.
However, it is better that if the person or the analyst
if he can analyze it from the Splunk itself
that is the best bet.
So, what we can do is for any IP addresses
which belongs here, we can assign tag
saying that this is a Singapore region VPC.
Or for 10.77 you can assign a Mumbai region.
For 66 you can assign a Oregon region VPC.
So, you can say Singapore is production.
So, you can add one more tag saying this is production,
this is staging, and this is a development environment.
And as it becomes much more simpler
for anyone who is looking into your logs
to identify the information out of it.
So, let's understand this practically
with one more use case.
So, let's go to the search and reporting app.
And within the data summary, we'll be scanning
by source type of Linux underscore secure.
I'll say the time range as all time.
And if you remember during the even type demo,
we had created a event type call as invalid user.
So, we can associate tag as well.
So, we know that...
So, let's take an example of compliance.
So, in compliance there's something called as okay
or not okay, or it may be compliant or maybe not compliant.
So, invalid user is definitely not okay.
So, security-wise it is not okay at all.
So, what you can do is you can assign a tag,
call as not okay, to the invalid user event type.
So, what you can do, you can go to settings
and you can go to event types.
Now, within in event type, let's put invalid
and this is a invalid user.
So, let's click on it and we'll assign a tag.
So, this definitely, this is not a okay thing.
So, I'll say the tag as not okay, and I'll save this.
Similarly, we know that we had created something
called a session opened or let's say sessions.
And this was our success logins.
So, for success login, let's put a event type of okay.
This is just for demonstration to just show
on how tag works.
It might not necessarily mean that session okay
is always, it should of be of tag okay.
All right, now, similar to this,
it might happen that if you talk about access combined logs,
it might happen that the logs of
which contains HTTP 500 response code or HTTP 403,
which is access denied response code
those can be termed as tagged, not okay.
So, now that we have two tags that we have created,
we can search by tag or we can search by event type as well.
I'll quickly show you how it works.
So, let's go by source type as Linux underscore secure.
And now if you do a tag, you'll see
that there are already many tags which are associated.
However, these are the two tags that we have.
One is not okay, and second is okay.
So, now what you can do is you can do a tag
is equal to not okay.
And now you'll get a list of all the events
which have the tag as are not okay.
Now let's take one more example.
So, let's say source type is equal
to access underscore combined underscore test.
And here there would be a fee call as response code.
Let's quickly verify.
It should be response code or status.
So, within status, let's quickly check.
Within status, you have various type of status.
You have 200, which means response okay?
It is a success status.
You have 503, you have 505, you have 500
which basically is internal server error.
And you also have 403.
Do you have that?
Let's quickly check.
I says that's count by status.
You do not have a 403 here in this demo
but you do have the 500 error.
So, now what you might want to do is,
you say that what I want is any HTTP response code,
like 500, it should be considered as not okay?
And you can associate a tag with these type of events.
Let's say I put a status is equal to 500 here
and I'll save this as event type.
Event type is equal to let's say web server underscore 500.
And I associate a tag, call as not okay, over here
and I'll go and save it.
Perfect, so, now you have done that.
What you basically need to do is you to do a tag
of not okay here and now you'll see you will get
all the events which are have are not okay.
Primarily from Linux underscore secure
and access underscore combine.
So, this becomes much more simpler.
So, similar to this you can have a tag call as compliant
and you can also have a tag call as not compliant.
So, for compliance related aspects, it becomes really easy
for the auditor as well as maybe for the management
to see what is missing and what is not missing.
So, tags becomes really useful.
So, ideally you should be tagging things
and it really helps a lot in identifying the issues.
So, this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Splunk Events Types Priority and Coloring Scheme ---

Instructor: Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video we'll be discussing
about a feature of colored events.
So this is one of my favorite,
one of my favorite features in Splunk,
and I generally use it actively
typically in the searches that we configure,
and it really helps any management team,
or any analyst who is viewing the events, a lot.
So let's look into what exactly this is.
Now, typically we generally group a similar event
by event type.
So whenever you search based
on like or like index is equal to star,
you'll get lot of events and each
of the event will have its associated event type as a field.
However, if you just look from here,
it seems okay, not that great,
but now if you look into this, now you see from
the color itself you might be able to determine all red.
So red color events is dangerous.
Orange color event is less dangerous.
And blue color events, they are good enough.
So if you have a color associated
with individual events based on priority or severity,
it really makes things easy to search
for any analyst or even management.
So in today's video, we'll be looking into how exactly
we can associate color depending upon the various factors.
Now, I am in my Splunk, and within the source type
of access_combined_test, we have our test file.
So this is the access log file
that we have been using actively throughout our demos.
Now, what we'll be doing is if you basically
do a quick search on stats count by status,
you see there're a lot of status which are available.
Now, not all of the status are good, so 200 is good.
Now, 500 is not a good status that you would like to see.
So typically let's say anything except
of 200 or maybe 300 series status
as something that one might not like to see typically
at a high level overview.
So what we'll be doing is we'll be coloring
events based on the status code.
All right, so let's look into how this would work.
So as a basic scenario, typically when you install,
I do not have an app right now,
but typically when you install a various app
of Nginx or Apache, it comes with its own event types.
Now, currently you'll see
that there are certain event types
which are present by default.
So always remember that if you do not need
any event type you can just disable them
instead of just adding additional field to your searches.
Now, let's go ahead and look into the coloring part.
So a coloring, whatever coloring that you do for events,
are based on the event type.
So let's say I do a status is equal to 200,
and now I have all the events which has this status of 200.
So I'll save this as an event type.
I'll save to status_200.
And now you have a option for color.
I'll say 200, the status code is generally considered good.
I'll say it is green, and the priority,
it starts from one to ten
where one is the highest and ten is the lowest.
I'll put it as one for the time being,
and I'll go ahead and save it.
All right, so this is one event type.
Now, apart from that, there can be various other status code
that you'll typically see within your events.
So, let's quickly find it out.
And it seems that in the first page
you have the events with 200 as a first glance.
So now if I do a quick search,
or let me just remove the status here,
Now, if I do a wildcard kind of a search,
you see none of the events are being colored.
You have a 200 status here
even on the second event and so on.
Now, the reason why you do not really have it
is because of the clash.
Now, currently you see there're a lot
of event types which are present over here.
One of the major one is nix-all-logs.
Now, what we can do is we can go to the event types,
and let's just quickly search based
on the event type which was present,
which is nix-all-logs.
Now, this specific event type, if you see,
it also has its search string, it also has its priority
and the color is non (indistinct).
So, many times what happens is that there is a clash,
which really happens.
So if you do not need a specific event type,
you can just go ahead and disable it
so that you only have the event types which you created
or which are useful for your analyst or for your searching.
Now that we have disabled it,
if I quickly do a search again,
now you see the event associated
with the http status code of 200 are being marked as green,
and this is now much more easier to read.
Now, let's do one thing.
You also have certain events which has the status of 408.
So let's do a status is equal to 408.
And we'll save this as an event type.
I'll name it status_408.
The priority, again, I'll put it as highest,
and this time, we'll give it a orange color,
and I'll do a save.
Now, once we have done the save,
you can remove the status.
It's going to 408.
You can search by source type.
And if you press search,
now you see you have a green as well as orange event.
So just by looking at the color,
you will be able to determine the severity of the events.
And this is extremely useful
specifically if you are having security logs.
So security logs might have high priority events
or medium priority or a low priority.
So if you tag all the events which are of high priority,
for an analyst, it becomes much more easier.
So if he's just doing a source type
where index is equal to start,
just by looking at the color, it becomes much more easier
for him to determine that, all right, this is a orange,
there is something which is wrong over here, he can just
maximize this event, and he can look into the detail
on why this has an orange color associated with it.
So this is what colored events are all about.
So, this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you,
and I look forward to seeing you next video.

--- Splunk Lookups ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video,
we will be discussing about Splunk Lookups.
Now the Lookup knowledge object
in Splunk is something which is very widely used.
And typically if you are working
in an environment where Splunk has been implemented,
you'll find that there are a lot of use cases
where the Lookups will be required.
So let's go ahead and understand
the Lookups functionality in Splunk.
Now going with the definitive terms,
Lookup basically enhances the power of Splunk
by enabling correlation of search results
with third party data like databases, directories,
CSV files, and others.
Now in, in very simple terms,
it basically allows us to correlate our Splunk data
with the external information,
which can be in a database, CSV files and others.
So let's understand this with an example.
So let's suppose that there is a event within the Splunk
which basically contains the customer ID field.
So customer ID can be like 01, 02, 03
but just by looking at the customer ID,
you'll not be able to get much more meaningful information.
So maybe you might want to know
what is the customer name associated with customer ID
and various other information.
So, Lookup will be able to tell you
what is the customer name
when you have the customer ID field.
Obviously now customer name needs to be passed
through CSV file or through other mechanism,
but Lookup is the functionality which basically
allows us to do that.
So with this, let's go ahead and do things practically
so it makes much more better sense.
So within a tutorial data we have two files here,
one is Lookups hyphen sample zero one and second is Lookups.
Now if you look into Lookups hyphen sample zero one file,
this is a sample data here.
So you have zero one purchased microphone
on 24th August, 2018.
So this field is basically the customer ID.
And then you have the product name and then
you have the purchase date.
So this is a sample file over here.
Now if you see just by looking into the customer ID,
we do not really know who that person is.
All we know is the customer ID.
Now within the tutorial data, I also have a file
called as Lookups.CSV.
So if I quickly open this in Wordpad,
you will see that I have two fields,
one is customer ID and customer name.
And within customer ID, you have 01, 02, 03, 04, 05.
And on the customer name,
you have Zeal, Harsh, Supratik, Yash and Ankit.
So we'll be importing this data to Splunk,
and we'll be doing a Lookup so that we know
that zero one is basically Zeal,
zero two is Harsh,
zero three is Supratik,
zero four is Yash and zero five is Ankit.
So let's look into how it would work.
So within Splunk,
let's go to settings and we'll quickly add a new data.
So this time, I'll add
the Lookups hyphen sample zero one which contains our data.
I'll select next.
So currently you see, there is no breakage of line.
So within the event breaks, we'll break
at every line interval so that we have a individual event.
So there are in total five events over here, I'll do a next.
So let's save this source type
as Lookups hyphen test
and I'll save it.
So we'll go ahead and we'll click a review and submit.
So this is a sample data.
However, within the sample data you see
that the fields are not really parsed properly.
So we'll make use of the interactive field
extractor functionality and we'll quickly parse these fields
with the help of a space as a delimiter.
So,
we know that this zero five is basically the customer ID.
(keyboard keys clattering)
Then, field three is basically the product name.
Then August is month,
24th is date,
and last one is the year.
So this makes sense.
We'll go ahead and we'll put this extraction name as Lookup.
You can give it any name that you intend to
and you can go ahead and you can do a finish.
So now if you go to Splunk search and reporting app,
within the data summary, the source type is
Lookups hyphen test.
And now you'll see if you just expand this event,
you have a proper
field extraction.
However, let's say a analyst is looking into this log file.
Now from this, only thing that he'll be able to
identify is that someone from Customer ID zero five
has purchased a scooty on 24th of August, 2018.
However, many times you might need to have more information.
Say Analyst also wants to know what is the name
of the customer who is associated with the customer ID.
So one way is that your analyst needs to have
a maybe read only access to database.
He'll create a query to find the name associated
with this customer ID and he can get the name.
However, that is a trivial approach and you need
to have multiple things, multiple access that is needed.
Ideally what you need to do is, from the single interface
if you can get all the relevant information,
that is the best bet
and that is the ideal thing that is needed.
And this is the reason why Lookups are very important.
So in order to have the Lookups on, what we'll do,
we'll go to settings and on the left hand side,
we'll select Lookups.
Now within the Lookups, let's create a new Lookup.
The destination app would be search,
we'll select the Lookup file basically
which is the Lookup.CSV.
So this is the Lookups file and the destination file name,
let's say that it is
KP Labs
Lookup.CSV.
So this is the destination file name which will be stored.
I'll go ahead and let me just remember this,
otherwise I'll quickly forget it.
Perfect. So your Lookup has been successfully uploaded.
Now if you search here,
you will see that the path where your Lookup is stored
is Ops, Splunk, ETC, users, admin,
search, Lookup, KP Labs Lookups.CSV.
Now since I am logged in as admin,
it has stored inside the admin user directory.
So now once you have your Lookup file present,
what we can do is
we'll go back to our search and reporting app,
and we'll select the source type
which is Lookups underscore test.
Now,
now what we need to do is we have to do the mapping
of customer ID of this event
to the event which is present in the CSV file.
So here in the CSV file, every customer ID is associated
with a given name.
Now, within Splunk event, by looking at the customer ID
we need to know, what is the associated name.
So in order to do that, what you need to do is
you have to pipe it to Lookup command
and you have to basically put the file,
the name of the Lookup file.
So you have Lookup KP Labs, Lookup.CSV, followed by
you need to give the name, which is customer ID,
which is present in the Lookup.
I'll say customer ID as,
now you have to give the
field associated with the customer ID,
which is present in your event, which is customer ID.
So your ID is capital, so I'll say customer ID.
And that is it.
Now if you open up any event here, you will see
that there is a customer name field which has come.
So now this customer name is Ankit.
Let's try once more.
Let's try zero one.
And within zero one, you will see the customer name is Zeal,
and all of this data is actually coming up from the Lookup
which is KP Labs Lookup.CSV file.
And, and if you know, this becomes much more easier,
so if analyst is going through the file,
it becomes much more easier for him to understand
what exactly is going on,
and it becomes much more simpler here.
So with this, what I wanted is, let's take one more example.
So many times what happens is that in the add-ons
and app that,
in add-ons basically, if you download it,
those add-ons, they come with a Lookup file by itself.
So let's try it out, let's download the Apache add-on.
(ambient background noise)
And we'll go ahead and we'll do a restart.
With this, we'll quickly log in.
Now once we have logged in,
I quickly wanted to show you is that
now that we have downloaded the Apache app,
now if you go to ETC apps
and let's do a LS hyphen L, where is the Apache?
This is the Apache add-on that we have.
So we'll go to Splunk
TA Apache
and if you do a LS hyphen L,
there is a directory called as Lookups.
So now if you go to Lookups, you'll see
that you have Apache underscore HTTP status.CSV.
So this is the Lookup which the add-on is coming with.
Now if you open up this file,
you'll see that
you have status,
status underscore description and status underscore type.
So you have various status, 100, 200.
So basically HTTP has various status code.
And it is actually difficult to remember
each and every one of these status codes.
So for analyst, it might be easier that,
if they see a status called as 205
within the Apache or Nginx log,
for them it'll be much more simpler
if they also have the description
on what that status is all about.
So let's try it out on how we can achieve that.
So what we'll do is we'll go back
to our Splunk search and reporting app.
We'll go to the data summary,
within the source type, we have access combined test,
let's put it as all time.
And along with that, within the settings we'll go to Lookup.
Now if you open this up,
you'll see that every,
every log has a specific status.
It might be 200.
So if, if you quickly do stats count by status,
you see there are a lot of status and,
for analysts he might not really know each and every status.
So what he might do is, he might do a Google.
So if you have a 406,
he might have to do a Google on what exactly 406 mean.
Now if you have the description associated
with this status within the Splunk itself,
so it becomes much more easier for anyone to read.
So hence what we'll do is, we'll go to settings,
we'll look into the Lookup table files
which are already present.
So there are a lot of Lookups which comes with Splunk
and this is the Lookup file that we are interested in
which is Apache underscore HTTP status.CSV.
So we'll copy this,
and let's create a new query which is Lookup,
you have Apache underscore HTTP status.CSV.
Now within the event, the field name is status, and,
within the logs,
within the CSV,
the field name is status.
So first,
the first thing that comes here
is the field name in CSV file.
And then you have to put the field name in your event logs.
So now, let's run the query.
So the query has been executed, let's open this up.
And now you see, with status, you have a status description
of okay and the status type of successful.
And now if we quickly verify,
you have status description field over here,
it says, "Okay", and the status type here is successful.
So I hope you understood the benefits
with Splunk Lookups bring in
and it really becomes much more simpler.
So go ahead and try this out because this is a fun practical
as well as this is going to be very useful
within your Splunk career.
So with this, we'll conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Access Control ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing
about the access control in Splunk.
Now depending upon the use cases
and the requirements you might have,
the way in which you should be taking care
of segregating the data or using access control will depend.
So let's take an example where you have a extremely
sensitive data where even having access
to the system might involve legal risk.
Now, for such type of use cases, it is recommended to
use a isolated, separate Splunk instance
which is specific for relevant audiences.
I still remember that in one
of the organizations that I have been working with
it dealt with payments.
So we basically, we had two Splunk instances.
One was very isolated one
and it had a different VPN altogether.
So, and second was the centric one,
where a lot of people,
well including developers and various others had access to.
So there were two Splunk instances,
and each Splunk instance required
a different VPN connection altogether.
So again, depending upon what type
of requirement you might have, you will have to
consider using a separate Splunk instance altogether.
Now, when you have a sensitive data,
not extremely sensitive data,
then maybe you can restrict access based
on index to the user.
We'll be discussing more
about this as well in the upcoming videos.
Now in Splunk, the basic user authentication happens
with the help of users, groups, and permissions.
So Splunk enterprise authentication allows us
to create users.
Now, once the users are created
we can attach those users to roles.
Roles can be considered as groups as well
and assign permission to those roles.
So you have the users on the left hand side here.
Now you have a role.
Now this role has two permission.
It can be any permission that you might define.
And what you do is you attach the user
to this specific rule.
So any user who is connected to this rule will inherit the
permissions which are connected to the role
with the user is associated with.
So let's look into the practical aspect on how
exactly this looks.
So I'm in my Splunk page, and if you go to settings
there is a feel of access control altogether.
So we can click here and basically there are four options.
One is authentication method, one is users, one is roles
and the last one is password policy management.
Now, typically whenever you create a user,
now user can be stored locally within Splunk,
or it can be stored in a center location like LDAP
or it can even come from SAML.
So depending upon what you might want to have
the authentication method would dictate that.
So currently our authentication method does not
have any external entity which is associated with it.
So you do not have a LDAP,
you do not have a SAML, you if you, in case you have a LDAP
within your organization, you can select LDAP
and you can configure the LDAP accordingly.
You even have option
for the multifactor authentication based on dual security
and RSS security in case you might want to have a MFA.
Now, again, it really depends upon the compliance
and requirement that you might intend to do.
I'll give you one use case where in,
in the compliance that we had
like it was a regional compliance
it required multifactor authentication
before anyone connected to Splunk.
So what we did was we had a separate VPN altogether
for Splunk, we had a multifactor authentication on VPN.
So the MFA was there on the VPN and then
on Splunk we do not really, did not really have a MFA there.
So again, it depends
on the use cases that you might want to have.
You can have a MFA for VPN,
you can even have MFA first flunk
in case you want to go all out on the security aspect.
So going back to the access control
let's go to the users now.
Now currently you see I only have one user.
This is the admin user, and if I click on "Admin User",
this admin user is assigned to a role.
So this is very similar to what we were discussing
in the PPT where any user that you create
you assign that user to the role.
And role in turn has its own permission.
So my admin user here is assigned to the admin role.
Now again, there are a lot
of default roles that you see which are present over here.
Some of the roles, it comes from the apps and add-ons
that you install, however not,
and some of them comes by default in Splunk.
So this is what the users are all about.
Now the next thing is the roles.
So let's quickly go inside the roles.
So you see there are a lot of roles which are available.
Now again, certain rules like AWS admin
it does not come by default.
It comes through the apps and add-ons
that we install within the Splunk.
So many of them, like admin role, can delete power user.
All of these are the ones which are
which comes by default in Splunk.
Now, if you click on the "Admin Role",
let's quickly open this up.
Now, this role has a certain conditions
which are associated with it.
It has a certain inheritance
and it also has certain capabilities.
So if you look into the admin role
it has a lot of capabilities that you will see over here.
And if you go a bit down
you can specify the indexes that it searches by default.
Now, along with that, let's do one thing.
Let's open up roles again
and we'll open the user role this time.
Now, if you compare the capabilities
of the user role and the admin role,
let's see, you have admin, all objects, AWS,
admin, capability, change, authentication.
Are there a lot of capabilities that you have?
And for the user role, you do not have much capabilities.
Only the basic capabilities that a typical user
might need are the ones that is present over here.
So the last thing before we go ahead
and create a user is the password policy management
where you can define the password policy.
So currently you see the minimum characters is eight.
You can even have much more complex password policy
like if you want the password to have numeral lowercase,
uppercase, special characters and so on.
You also have option for password expiration where
users would have to change their password every 90 days.
And you also have lockout settings.
So if someone tries to log into Splunk,
it fail password continuously
say for five times, then he will be
locked out for the duration of 30 minutes.
So all of these configuration parameters are part
of the password policy management.
Again, these are quite useful
and you need to make sure that it complies according
to the security policy that your organization might have.
So with this, let's go to users
and we'll create a new user.
So I name this user as "Z".
Let's skip the other aspects
and let's set a default password here,
and we need to assign it to a role.
Now there are various roles which are present to Oya.
If you want this user Z to be admin, you can select "Admin".
However, the default one is user.
So I'll just leave it for the timing so that we can see
on how exactly the user role would typically look like
because everything that we have been doing currently is
through the admin role.
And hence we have all of the settings that you see
because everything is the admin capabilities.
So let's go ahead and we can do a save.
Now, before we do a save, I do remember that there is option
of require password change on first login
which basically means
that a first time when the user will log in
he'll have to expect to change the password.
So I'll go in and I'll do a save.
So now I'm logged into a Firefox private window.
I'll do a local host 8,000, and let's log in
with the user Z and the password, which we have set.
Now it says that,
"For security reason, the admin on this account
has requested that you change your password."
This is something that we have already seen.
So let's change our password this time
and we'll go ahead and we'll do a save.
Now, this user Z, it has limited capabilities.
So now if you go to settings
now you see you do not really have all of the configurations
that you typically would have with the admin privileges.
So the amount
of capabilities that user role will be able to do
is much more limited and much more basic.
So that's about the high level overview
about the Splunk access control.
Again, we'll be discussing things
in detail in the upcoming videos, but with this video
I hope you understood the basics about
three important factors
that form the part of access control.
One is users, second is role, and third is permissions.
Permissions, typically they also referred as capabilities.
So these are the three important elements
which forms a strong access control.
So with this we'll conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Creating Custom Roles & Capabilities ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
So continuing a journey with the access control in Splunk.
In today's video we'll be looking into some
of the important aspects which you'll typically find
under the access control area, as well as
how we can create our own role.
Now in the earlier video, if you remember
we had created a user called as Z.
And typically now if you look into
the options which are associated with Z
the authentication system here is plug.
The default app here is launcher.
The default app inherited from is plug.
The role is user and the status is active.
Now if you quickly click on the user Z,
one important aspect that you'll find here
is the default app.
Now this is quite important
so let me quickly show you what exactly this means.
Now if I quickly log in as Z in my Splunk instance,
you'll see that I am in the homepage.
So this is the homepage.
However, you can even tell Splunk
that whenever a user logs in
he should directly go to the search and reporting app.
So now whenever we go to homepage, we then go
to search and reporting app, and then we start to search.
So that capability is done
with the help of the default app settings.
So let's look into how exactly this would work.
So from the launcher home,
I'll say the default app here is search and reporting
and I'll click on save.
Once done, what I'll do, let's verify it.
I'll do a logout here and let me re-log in.
I'll say Z and password.
And this time I'll be redirected
to the search and reporting app directly.
So this becomes useful for a lot of time
because many times you might have various apps
like Splunk app for AWS and what you want is
that there are certain AWS administrators.
They only might want to see
the dashboards related to Splunk app for AWS.
So you can directly do the default app
as Splunk app for AWS.
So whenever they log in, they directly go
into this app and they see the dashboard.
So this is much more easier thing to do.
So with this set, let's go ahead
and we can create our own role
and let's see on how exactly it would look like.
So I'll go to new role.
So the first option that you'll see
over here is the role name.
So let's give a role name of custom role.
Then comes the default app.
We'll just ignore this for the time being.
The the important part here,
the first one is the restrict search term.
Now typically what happens is that,
let me quickly show you this with an example.
Let's say I am logged in with a user called as Z.
And if I do a index, as you call to asterisk
and preset would be all time, you would typically see
that I am getting information from various sources.
You have access log, secure log,
various other sources that I have.
And even if you have multiple hosts,
you can get information from multiple hosts.
Now in case you want to restrict that information,
you can put it over here.
So I say source is equal to access dot log.
Let's say source is equal to access dot log.
Now what will happen is here, instead of all the sources
he'll be only be able to find the log events which are
from a specific source.
So this is what this restrict search name is all about.
Next important part is the restrict a search time range.
Now generally whenever you search,
you have a certain time presets: today, the last 24 hours
the last 30 days, even previous year.
So all of those, so if you do from last 90 days
and if the amount of events are used
it will take huge amount of resources.
So you can restrict the search time range
from this specific option.
Now the next option is user level search job limit
and user level concurrent real time search job limit.
So this is a concurrent search job limit
and this is a concurrent real time search job limit.
Now real time, whenever you do a real time
it typically takes a huge amount of resources.
So if you look into the presets
there is a preset called as all time, real time.
So it will typically show you the logs which are coming in
in the real time fashion and that takes good amount of CPU.
So this is the limit that basically you can put
at the user level.
So let's say I have a user level search of limit of five
and I have user level of concurrent search
real time limit as five year.
Now, in respect to that,
you have one more configuration setting called as
role level concurrent search job limit
and role level concurrent real time search job limit.
It is important to understand the difference here.
So since we are creating a role
and let's say there are five users
who are connected to the role,
now five users will be able to have
five individual search job limit,
and five individual real time search job limit.
So instead of that, you can combine all of them and say
that any user who is part of the role can run maximum
of 10 concurrent search jobs
and maximum of 10 concurrent real time search job
with at a role level.
So this is at the individual role level,
I would say individual user level.
And this is at the individual
or this is at the global role level.
The next important part here is limit total job disc space.
So typically whenever you run searches
or whenever you run some complex job,
it would take a certain amount of disc space.
So all of those configuration, you can put over here.
Now below this, you have inheritance.
So let's say I, what I want is I already have,
so let's go to roles over here.
Now I have a role call user which comes by default
and it has certain capabilities.
Now what I want is, along with these capabilities,
I want to add one more capability
called as admin underscore all underscore objects.
So if you click over here,
it will be selected and it will be appearing
under the select selected capabilities.
So you see admin underscore all underscore object,
but as a best practice, it is recommended
that you should not modify the pre-built roles
that are present.
You can create your own custom role.
So in case you want all the capabilities
of a user role, plus one more capability
which is admin underscore all underscore object,
instead of modifying from here, what you can do is
within the custom role you can say it is
inheriting from user.
And there is one more capability that we want to assign
which is admin underscore all object
and or I say AWS underscore admin underscore capability.
So this is the ideal way of doing things.
Now the next part you have the index searched by default.
So whenever you do some kind of a vi cut search
what it will happen is it will only search
on the selected index, which is mean.
Now you can have a lot of index.
Now if you do not specify, explicitly specify
index is equal to special underscore index
it will not search in other index,
it will only search in the index called as main.
And you also have a option for restricting indexes.
We'll be discussing about that in in the upcoming videos.
But for the time being,
this is something that we will be looking into.
So once we have seen the basics,
we can go ahead and we can click on save.
Perfect.
So now that we have our role which is created,
we can go ahead and we can create a new user.
So I'll click on new user.
I'll say the username is custom user.
I quickly set the password.
Now you can even set the time zone.
If he is from, say, US, you can set the time zone for him
and even he will have the capability to change the time zone
according to what he intends to do.
So default app for, let's say, search and reporting,
this is the default app.
Now assign to roles, the default one is user.
We do not want him to go to the user role
because we had added one more capability.
So we'll just deselect it by clicking on it
and we'll click on the custom role
and it automatically goes into the selected items.
And require password change on first login,
I'll just deselect it for now, just for a demo purposes.
Once you click on save, your custom user is created.
So now let's do one thing,
let's log out or from the user Z
and we'll log in from the custom user.
So as expected, we are directly
into our search and reporting app.
Now if you do a index is equal to asterisk.
Let's say index is equal to asterisk.
If you do a all time, now you see where you are just limited
to the source of access log.
I hope you remember that we had explicitly restricted
the search to access dot log and hence,
even though there are a lot of other logs which are present
or logs from other sources which are present
but the user is only able to search based on access dot log.
So this is the high level overview
about how you can create a custom role,
add a new user to the custom role,
and we also looked into what exactly
the default app option is all about.
So with this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Overview of Distributed Splunk Architecture ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we'll be discussing
about the distributor Splunk Architecture.
Now a Splunk Enterprise that we generally use
it consists of various other sub components as well.
Now, this includes, now the Splunk Enterprise that we use,
it consists of various sub components.
Now these sub components includes,
Indexer, you have Searchhead, you have deployment server
you have forwarders, you have license master, you have,
you even have monitoring console.
So simple example I can give you is of my mobile here.
So although this mobile is a complete package
but it consists of various other sub components.
So if you'll see, oh yeah, my motto, Motorola phone
it contains this big camera at the back.
So this is a external component
although what they do is they fit together
and it becomes a a single unit.
And similar goes with the Splunk.
Splunk also con contains various other components.
They can be distributed.
However, if you just install Splunk,
all of this forms a single unit which you can use
within a single Splunk Enterprise installation.
So let's understand this with a simple animation.
So let's assume that the entire blog that you see over here
it's a Splunk Enterprise.
Now, within this you have various sub components
like this can be Indexer, you have searches,
monitoring console, deployment,
server forwarders, et cetera, et cetera.
Now if you use a single Splunk Enterprise instance here
it might happen that one of the components might fail.
And many times what happens is
that if you install everything within a single server
this failure can cause the failure
of the entire Splunk instance itself.
So you need to be careful specifically when you
are using Splunk in your corporate environment
where the searchability is a important aspect.
You don't want Splunk to be going down
and hence having a single Enterprise instance
is something which is not preferred.
So what you do here is you do a distributed setup.
So in distributed setup, what you do is
individual Splunk Enterprise instance is used
for a single component.
So let's say this one can be used only for Indexes.
This can be used for Searchheads,
this can be used for for orders.
This is exclusive for
monitoring console, et cetera et cetera.
And for such cases, if one of the component fails
it will ensure that rest of the component will not
be affected totally because this is
in a isolated Splunk instance.
All right, so many times
distributed Splunk components really helps a lot.
However, do not consider distributed Splunk
or distributed setup as the best setup
because even if this component fails at this amount of time,
let's say, "currently this component has failed,
a component B has failed."
So during that time
what will happen is, I'll not be able to utilize the feature
of the component B, whatever it may be.
It may be Searchhead,
it may be Indexer, it may be forwarder.
But during the time this is in the fail state
although it might not bring all the other components down
but it will, we will not be able to use the feature
of the fail component.
And hence distribute setup
by itself is not a very ideal approach
and hence we make use of something like clustered setup.
So what happens in clustered setup is you have
a cluster of individual components.
So say you have a cluster of Searchhead,
so you have a cluster of Searchhead,
you have a cluster of Indexer,
you have a cluster of forward as well.
So in this kind of a setup, even if one,
if one instance within the cluster goes down
your component is still not down.
Alright? So now let's say the second instance
of your component has gone down
You still have your third instance of your component up
and your functionality will still be preserved.
And this is the importance of a clustered setup.
Remember that if you're going to install or if
you're going to run Splunk in your production environment
having a clustered setup is very,
very important to ensure that all the functionality
of Splunk is up and available all the time.
So although we were discussing in terms of various symbols
over here, when you talk about clustered setup
you, you need to have a systematic diagram
about how exactly it works.
So if you see, you have a three Indexer nodes in cluster,
Indexer are basically it's used for indexing the data.
Then you have the Searchhead cluster
which is basically used for Searchhead component.
And if you see how Indexer cluster interacts
with the Searchhead cluster.
So this is what the cluster set up looks like.
When it terms of the technical diagram,
we'll be doing the entire cluster.
We'll be looking into how we can create Indexer cluster.
We'll be looking into how we can create Searchhead cluster
in the upcoming section.
But I just would like to show you on how exactly
this would look like in terms of technical diagram.
Now, before we go ahead and do all of these clustered set up
it is important for us to understand what each
and every components within Splunk is all about.
So we already discussed
that Splunk Enterprise contains various sub-components
which can be Indexer, Searchhead, deployment,
server license, master, forward, monitoring console.
So before we do a clustering
before we do high availability, it is important
for us to understand what this component is
because if we do not understand
we'll not understand the true motive
of doing a clustering setup.
So throughout this section
we will be understanding each of these components in detail.
Post witch we'll look into the clustering
or maybe a high availability setup as well.
Now, one very important part to remember is
that Splunk does not support clustering feature
for each and every component, which is present over here.
Now two of the major components within Splunk
which supports clustering is Indexer and Searchhead.
And our next two sections are dedicated
for achieving clustering for both Indexer and Searchheads.
So this is very important part,
for other components like license, master, heavy, forwarder,
Splunk does not support clustering
It supports active passive based failover.
So this is one important part to remember.
So that's about it for the Splunk distributed setup.
I hope this overview has been useful for you
and I look forward to seeing the next video.

--- Understanding License Master ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be discussing
about the Splunk License
Master component
as well as we'll look into some
of the licensing
related aspects in Splunk.
So these are the five important pointers
that you typically need to remember
as far as the licensing is concerned.
First is,
Splunk Enterprise
ingests external data,
indexes it and stores it in a disk.
Now this is something
that we already know.
Now,
license specifies
how much external data
that you can index per day.
Now if you have a 1GB license
then you can ingest
up to 1GB of data per day.
If you try to exceed,
then you'll go into the warning stage.
Now,
all the Splunk Enterprise instance
requires a license.
This is one important
point to remember,
and if you have a Standalone Indexer
you can install the license locally.
So if you have like a standalone
Splunk Enterprise instance
you can go ahead and install
the license locally.
In case of Distributed Environment,
we need to configure a License Master.
So let's understand
both of these points
in great detail.
So if you typically look into the
license architecture.
Let's assume you have
three Splunk Enterprise
instances and
you buy
one
Splunk License of say
1GB
of data per day.
So you cannot use that one
single license and put it in
all the three Splunk instance,
that will go against the TOCs.
So if you typically see whenever
you buy a license it might look
something similar to this.
If you just open it,
you'll see the actual license.
So whenever you buy a
license from Splunk
you'll get this file.
Now,
you cannot install that file
in the same file in
three Splunk Enterprise instance.
That is the important part
to remember here.
So for such use cases
you need to have a
Splunk License Master.
So for use cases where you have
multiple Splunk instances,
and you just have a single license file
and you cannot really put that single
license file in all
the Splunk instances.
So when you have such type of use cases
typically when it comes to a
distributed architecture
type of use cases,
you need to implement a License Master.
So the License Master architecture looks
something similar to this
where you have a License Master server.
So this again is a
Splunk Enterprise instance,
where you have a license,
where you have that
single license install
and then you connect
end number of instances which
you have within your environment
with the License Master.
So these instances that
you connect to the
License Master are called
as the license slave.
So let's understand this
in a detailed manner.
So typically if you see
this is a single
Splunk Enterprise instance,
and if you go into settings,
if you go into licensing.
So by default this is
a trial license group
which is present over here.
And if you'll see it says this server is
acting as a
standalone license server.
So in case you want to connect
this standalone license server
to the License Master,
you can click on change to slave.
And in the next screen,
you'll have to specify
the host names of the License Master.
So we need to select the second option,
which says designate a
different Splunk instance
as a License Master server.
And you have to specify
the URL of that instance where
the license is installed
and the one which is going to act
as a License Master.
So we'll look into it in
the practical session
in the upcoming video.
But along with that,
do remember
is that whenever you
launch a Splunk instance,
typically it'll go to
the trial license group
and it does have a license expiration.
Once License is expired,
a lot of functionalities like alerting,
clustering a specific
functionality will go away.
You also have a licensed
daily volume of 500 MB.
It'll also show you how much
volume you have
used today.
And if you have used
more than 500 MB of data then
you'll have a
warning count over here.
So if you exceed a certain
warning threshold,
then you'll not be able to index
the data within your
Splunk instance.
So that's about it,
about the basics of License Master.
In the upcoming video,
we'll go ahead
and look into how we can
create a License Master
and associate a Splunk instance
to the License Master,
as well as look into
various other features which are
licensing component of Splunk products.

--- Implementing License Master ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
Now, in the previous video we were discussing
about the license master architecture typically required
when you have a distributed kind of setup.
So in today's video we'll go ahead
and implement a similar setup and look into
how we can have a license master
and it's associated license slave.
So for our testing purpose,
what I have done is I have created three docker containers.
One docker container here is associated
with a splunk master.
So this is the license master.
Second is the slave 01
and third is the slave 02.
And the master has is running on port 8,000.
This is the host port.
Remember the backend port are all 8,000.
Second slave is running on port 8,001 in my Windows host.
And slave 02 is running on 8,002 of my Windows host.
Great. So let's go ahead and open the local host 8,000 port.
So this is going to be my master server.
Let's log in here.
So once you logged in, if you go to settings
and if you go to licensing, you'll typically see
that this is a trial license group
and this server is acting as a standalone server.
So what we want is we want this server to act
as a license master so that it can associate the license
with the other licensing slave that we create.
So in order to make this as the splunk license master
what you need to do is you have to click on change to slave.
And here there are two options.
One is designate this splunk instance
as the licensing server, which is the master license server.
And it's saying designate a different splunk instance
as a master license server.
So basically we want to associate this instance
as a license master.
So I'll select this option and I'll click on save.
Perfect. So now the master server was successfully changed.
You can click on, OK.
Now the next thing that you need to do
is you'll have to add a license.
So we can go ahead and we can add that trial license
which we had generated during the earlier period.
So I have selected my splunk.license file over here,
I'll go ahead and I'll click on install.
So once you click install, you'll need to restart
your splunk enterprise server.
Perfect. So my splunk instance is restarted.
Let's quickly log in here.
And now if you see the trial license got changed
to enterprise license group and you, you got a lot
of more options which you would typically see,
one of them is the pooling related functionality
that we will be discussing.
So now this basically it acts as a master license server,
which is also said here that this server is acting
as a master license server.
So our next thing is to create a slave.
So we already had the slave containers up and running.
So if you'll see over here, I have my splunk master
and I have two slaves splunk servers which are running.
One is on port 8,001 and second is on port 8,002.
So within my different browser I have open local host 8,001.
Let's go ahead and log in here.
Now what we'll do is this splunk enterprise instance
we will connect this to our license master,
so that our trial functionality will go away.
So currently you see this is a trial license group.
So what we'll do is we'll connect this specific instance
to our license master.
Now in order to do that,
you need to click on change to slave over here.
And there are two options.
You can make this as a master.
We do not want to do that because we already have
a master created.
And second is designate a different splunk instance
as the master license server.
So we need to provide the IP address
of the license master server
where our license is installed.
So basically what you need to do here,
you need to do a Docker inspect on splunk master.
You will get the IP address which is associated
with the master server which is 172.17.0.2.
So I'll specify
172.17.0.2
and colon, you'll have to specify the 8089
which is the management port.
You can go ahead and you can do a save.
Perfect. So once you've done that
let's quickly restart our server.
Great. So ask splunk instances, restart it.
Let's quickly log in here and we'll go to settings.
We'll go to licensing.
And this time you would see that this server is associated
with a remote master license server.
And now if you go to licensing, you'll not any
you'll not get any option
to see on how much consumption is been happening
in other aspects because this is connected
to the remote master.
In a similar way, you can connect one more Docker container
to the remote master in case you require.
Otherwise, just one is also good enough
for the demo practical.
So now going to the master licensing server,
you typically see a feature
of auto generated pool enterprise.
So pooling is one of the important aspects or one
of the important features of the license master server.
And this is something that will be discussing
in the upcoming video.
So with this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you,
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- License Pools ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be discussing
about the Splunk license pool.
Now basically whenever you install a Splunk license
that license resides in a license stack,
which is also referred as a Splunk enterprise stack.
We'll be looking into it after this slide.
Now this stack has a default license pool,
called as auto-generated pool enterprise
and any slave that connects
to this license master has access to the default pool.
So let's understand this
by looking into the licensing aspect.
So if you go to the license master,
you would see that this is a Splunk enterprise stack.
So this is a Splunk developer personal license.
Do not distribute.
So this is just for the name.
So this is a stack.
So if you are,
basically, you have a Splunk enterprise license,
it'll be call a Splunk enterprise stack.
And this stack has a pool.
So you see you have a auto-generated
pool enterprise over here
and that pool has a volume capacity of 10 GB.
So any server which connects to my license master,
it has access to this pool.
That means if I connect my license slave here
that license slave will be able to use
volume of up to 10 GB, which is part of the pool over here.
So that is what the first three pointers are all about.
Now there is a problem with the default approach here.
Let's understand.
So let's say you have a license master
and the license master has up to 10 GB of license.
And there are three slaves which are connected,
which are the individual Splunk instances.
One is used by the development team,
second is used by the SRE team,
third is used by the security team.
Now when you connect all of these Splunk instances
to the license master, all of these slaves will have access
to the auto-generated pool, which by default has access
to the entire 10 GB of the volume license.
Now the problem with this scenario is that
if development team uses 8 GB of data per day
that will only leave 1 GB for the SRE team
and maybe 1 GB for the security team.
In case SRE team uses the remaining 2 GB,
then the security team will not have any volume of data
that they can index.
And this is a problem with the auto-generated pool.
So what we basically do is we create a pool
specific for the usage.
So I say I create a pool for development team,
where they can use maximum of 3 GB.
I create a pool for SRE team,
where they can use maximum of 3 GB yet again,
and I create a pool for the security team,
where they can use maximum of 4 GB.
So in such scenarios you can have that isolation
of the licensing volume.
So let's look into how we can do that.
So if you go a bit down, the auto-generated pool,
you can edit this out
and you can basically specify the amount
that you want to index.
So I just create cancel for the time being.
Let's create a new pool.
I'll name them as dev pool.
I'll say this is
for development team and the license maximum.
So the specific amount, I'll say the development team here,
they need to have access only for 3 GB.
So I'll say 3 and I'll put it to GB
and which indexes are eligible to draw from this pool.
You can specify the indexer over here.
So in our case, if you remember,
we had created two license slaves.
So if I do a docker ps,
we are more interested in Splunk slave01
So let's quickly log in here.
I go to IT Splunk slave01
I'll do a bash and the host name here,
it starts with 8040.
So I'll say that this specific indexer
can access the license pool called as dev,
and it has a specific amount of 3 GB.
I can go ahead and I can click on submit.
So now it says that bad request,
failed to create pool, stack is fully allocated.
Now the reason why this error you are getting is
because we already have a default pool.
Let's see, let's look here.
You already have a default pool of auto-generated pool
enterprise, which is currently taking a hundred percent
of the license.
So you either you can edit this specific pool
or you can delete it all together.
So let's look into how we can edit it.
So if I click on edit, I'll remove the license
maximum here.
I'll say specific amount and I'll say 1 GB,
you can click on submit.
So once you have done this,
then only you can create one more pool.
You can associate it the indexer here,
and you can click on submit over here.
So now you see the license pool dev
has been successfully created.
So I'll click on OK.
And one more important aspect
that I wanted to show you is that
let's try and add one more pool.
This time we call it the pool MS SRE.
The allocated amount, I'll say 3 GB here.
And if you look into the specific indexer,
one indexer here is grayed out.
So one important point to remember is
that at an instant of time,
one indexer can only be associated with one pool.
It cannot be associated with more than one pool
is something that we need to remember.
So that's about it for the license pool.
I hope this video has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Indexer ---

Speaker: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing
about one of the very important components of Splunk
which is Indexer.
Now, Indexer is a component in Splunk enterprise
whose responsibility is to index data,
transform the data into searchable events,
and then place the results into the appropriate index.
Now, generally what happens is that
since this is such an important component,
typically to ensure high availability,
Splunk provides an out of the box clustering capabilities,
which most of the organizations who are running Splunk
typically opt for.
Now, in order to understand the Indexer component
let's take this diagram where you can have multiple inputs.
So you can have a monitor input
you can have a FIF four UDP input
DCP input, scripted inputs, et cetera, et cetera.
Now, from these inputs, the data comes from parsing queue.
Now this is the queue from queue.
It comes to the parsing pipeline.
Now, in the parsing pipeline, lot of things like source,
even tagging the character normalization,
the reg transformation, everything happens here.
Now, once everything related to parsing happens,
the data then goes to the index queue.
From index queue, it goes to the indexing pipeline
where the index building happens.
And once this is completed, then the data,
which is the raw data, as well as the index file
gets stored within the raw disk.
So there are two stage, which generally offers over year.
One is the parsing stage, and second is the indexing stage.
So parsing queue and parsing pipeline,
they formulate the parsing stage.
The indexing queue, and indexing pipeline,
they formulate the indexing stage.
Now, let's understand the importance of both of these.
The first one is the parsing stage where let's look
into some of the actions which happens
during the parsing stage.
One of the first actions that happens is the extraction
of the default fields of each event,
which includes host source and source types.
So let's understand this before we proceed further.
So typically, this is my Splunk enterprise instance,
and whenever you open any event, you would see
that there'll always be three fields.
One is host, second is source, and third is source type.
So this is also referred as the default fields.
And then you have the event fields here.
So you have the default fields and the event fields.
This parsing of whole source and source type happens
at the parsing level.
Now, along with that,
basically if you go to settings, and if you go
into the data inputs,
let me quickly open up the diagram.
You see there are multiple inputs
from which the data can come into the parsing queue
and this inputs are something that we see.
Yeah, you have TCP, UDP, you have scripts, you have a HGC
and you also have a monitor where you can monitor
the files and directories.
So once this extraction happens,
you have various other capabilities which are part
of the parsing queue.
One is the configuring the character set, encoding,
identifying the line termination
using various line break rules, which you can define
or with Splunk and do it by themselves.
Next, one of the important things that lot
of organization uses is to mask the sensitive details
in the data, like credit card numbers which might come.
So these are some of the functionalities
of the parsing stage.
Second is during the indexing pipeline stage,
Splunk performs various aspects like breaking events
into segments, which can later be searched upon,
building index data structures, which is important
for quick search, as well as writing raw data
into index files to the discs.
So these are some of the aspects of the indexing stage.
So these are the two important states that happens
and all of these are part of the indexer component
which takes care of all these aspects.
So this is the high level overview
about the indexer component.
In the upcoming sections, we will be discussing
in detail related to how we can ensure high availability
with the help of clustering of the indexes.
But for this video that's about it.
I hope this video has been informative for you,
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Masking Sensitive Data at Index Time ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we'll be looking
into the masking of sensitive data before it gets indexed.
Now typically it might happen that whatever log file
that you are ingesting, it would contain,
or it might contain, certain sensitive information
like credit card information or social security numbers
or various other sensitive information.
Now, in such cases you might want to mask such information
that in such a way that an any analyst who might be
monitoring your logs, they would not get such information
like credit card or social security numbers.
So one of the example is that
let's say this is the sample log file,
and on the right hand side you have
a credit card information.
So let's assume this is a credit card information.
So what might you want is you might want to
transform this information in such a way that when
this gets indexed to Splunk, it would come something similar
to what you see in the second example.
So this is ideally important
during the indexing time itself.
So before the data gets indexed
it should be transformed,
such that whenever someone analyzes,
they'll not be able to find out original information.
So we already discussed during the indexer component stage
that there were two stages.
One is the passing stage and second is the indexing stage.
So before indexing stage we want to pass the information
in such a way that
any data which is containing such information
will be transformed to XXXXXX
before it goes to the indexing queue.
And this is something that we'll be looking
in today's video.
So we have a file callers mask.txt
and this is the sample log file.
All thanks to this Splunk documentation for that,
I did not really had to create this files.
So we'll just look into how exactly it might work.
So this is a sample log file and what we'll do
is we'll put it to Splunk.
So I'm in my Splunk instance.
So let's do one thing.
We'll go to temp and we'll create a file called as
accounts.log.
Alright, so the nano is not there, we'll use VI.
We'll use accounts.log and what we'll do,
we'll copy the information which is part of mask.txt,
and we'll be putting it to the accounts.log file.
Perfect. So once you have done this, let's go to OPT,
Splunk, ETC system, local.
And basically within local there is a file call as
inputs.(indistinct).
And within this file, you only have the defaults stanza.
So what you want is you want your Splunk to
monitor the accounts.log file that we have created.
So this is a sample document which contains the way
in which you can monitor.
Again, this is very simple but just for the documentation
sake I have added it in in.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go to inputs.conf
And we'll just use this stanza.
And what it is doing, it is monitoring.
What it is monitoring, it is monitoring for
the accounts.log and it is assigning a source type this.
So this is the source type which is being assigned.
And let's go ahead and save it.
And the next thing that we need to do is we need to
add a props.conf.
Props.conf, I'm sure you already know by now
we already have been discussing
in detail in the previous sections related
to props.conf
Now within the props.conf, if you will see over here
we have two sections.
Let's take this up and we'll paste it here.
So you have the two section. One is the SSN-CC-anon.
So this is the section.
And then we are using a function called as SCDCMD.
So this SCDCMD is like a function which basically
allows us to define a said syntax.
So said is a basically Linux utility.
I'm sure many of you might have already used it.
So it allows you to use a set like syntax,
within the value pair.
So you also have option for redis,
you also have option to use set based commands.
Now if you quickly look into the prop start conf manual
and if you do a set CMD, you would typically see
that you have a set CMD hyphen, you can give a class name.
And basically this is used
for anonymizing the data we already see here.
And basically it it used for putting the set scripts here.
So this is why we have the set CMD function
which has been used.
And this is a script which matches the the data
that we have within the accounts.log.
So we can go ahead.
Let's go ahead and save this
and let's go ahead and restart our Splunk instance.
So we'll do OPD splunk bin, Splunk restart.
Perfect. So now these Splunk is restarted
and if we quickly go to our Splunk instance
we'll go to search and reporting app.
So there is one event which has come.
So if I go to data summary and if you click on the host
you would typically see now within the event
you have the credit card information as mask.
So this is done at the indexing time itself.
Now, this is now within the example
we had made use of set CMD.
You can even make use of regex,
to define what needs to be masked
and do the masking at the indexing time accordingly.
So with this will conclude this video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to seeing you next video.

--- Search Head ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be discussing
about the search head component in Splunk.
Now, basically, search head is a component
in Splunk Enterprise whose responsibility it is
to manage the search related functions.
It also is responsible for sending the search request
to the responsible indexers, retrieving the results,
and merging the results before it sends back to the user.
So this can be explained with the below diagram
where you have multiple indexer nodes over here,
and then you have a search head.
So this search head component will send the request
to the indexer node.
Indexer node, I hope you remember,
it is responsible for a lot of functions.
The primary ones are related to parsing and indexing.
So a search head will not contain any data.
It will send the request to the indexers,
indexers will fetch the request,
depending upon the request
which the search head component gives,
it sends the request back to the search head,
search head will merge all the results,
and send it back to the user.
So that is the primary responsibility of the search head.
Now, typically when you are doing a clustered setup
or even a distributed setup, what you typically have,
you'll have a search head cluster
and you'll have the indexer cluster.
Now, indexer, by the indexer, you'll see all the forwarders.
It may be universal forwarders.
It will send the data to the indexer nodes over here
and the data will be stored in this specific cluster.
All right?
So no index data will be stored in the search head cluster.
All the index data will be stored in the indexer cluster.
Now, in order to search this cluster,
we make use of search head.
Now, if you'll see this diagram,
one search head member over here,
it connects to multiple indexer nodes
because it might happen that typically,
when you have a clustered setup,
20% of the data might be in indexer 1,
say 20% might be in indexer 2,
20% might be in indexer 3.
So typically when you search,
it needs to be searched across the indexer nodes.
So search head typically will send the data
to all of the indexer nodes, it retrieves the result,
and again, the user will be able to find those result sets
within the search head member.
So when it comes to the search head,
search heads are used for a number of functions.
Some of the primary one includes
definitely search related functions,
building dashboards and reports as required.
It is also used for building data models
or data model acceleration,
and definitely the alerting related functionalities
also built within the search head.
So typically if you have this type of architecture,
the users will not search the indexer nodes here.
They will log in to the Splunk instance,
which is part of the search head cluster,
they'll put their SPL query here,
search head will interact with N number
of indexer peer nodes which are present in the cluster,
retrieve the result, and send it back to the user.
So that is the primary component of search head function.
So, in the upcoming sections,
we will be discussing upon how we can formulate
the search head cluster after the indexer cluster is built.
So we have two sections which are dedicated
for the indexer cluster as well as the search head cluster.
So that's about the basics
about the search head as the component.
I hope this video has been informative for you,
and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

--- Splunk Monitoring Console ---

-: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video,
we will be discussing about these Splunk monitoring console.
So till now, we have been discussing primarily
related to search heads, related to indexes.
However, typically when you have a Splunk instance
and someone is saying,
let's say you have a Splunk instance in your organization
and a user comes back to you and say,
hey man, the searches are not working quite fast,
there's a lot of lag that is happening,
the search performance is slow.
So, monitoring is one of the most important aspect,
post, you have your deployment setup.
So you need to continuously monitor
not only your server performance,
but also various other performance
including indexing performance,
other searches performance, et cetera.
And all of those is the capability of a component call
as the monitoring console.
Now, the monitoring console basically allows us to
see the detail information, not only about the topology,
but also related to your Splunk enterprise deployment.
Now, the monitoring console provides pre-built dashboards
which gives you visibility on various areas
as we discuss which varies from indexing performance,
resource usage, license usage, and many more.
So, this is the screenshot that I have taken
from one of the clusters that we have,
and you'll see it says that there are three indexes
and there are three searches.
Now, it also says that one of the instances
among three indexes is unreachable,
and one of the instances in the search head
is also unreachable.
It is also telling us about the resource usage,
saying that the average is 75.25%,
the memory average is 15%.
And on the right-hand side
it says that there are two pures which are searchable.
It speaks about the bucket copies, the total bucket,
this is related to the indexes
as well as various CPU memory usage capabilities.
Now, the Splunk monitoring consult,
it comes pre-built with lot of dashboards
which we can use out of the box.
So we do not really have to build any dashboards,
we can just use the dashboards which comes pre-built.
Now these dashboards comes based on following areas,
one is the search performance
as well as the distributed search framework.
You have the indexing performance,
you have the operating system usage,
you have index and volume usage,
the HTTP one collector performance,
the TCP performance and various others.
So this is the theoretical part.
Let's go to the Splunk
and see where do we find all of these.
So I'm in my Splunk instance,
and if you typically go to settings on the left-hand side,
you have a feature of monitoring console.
So let's click on the monitoring console.
So, this is how the Splunk monitoring console
overview page looks like.
So if you see on the left-hand side,
it is showing us the indexing rate.
It also shows the disc usage, the license usage,
and if you go a bit down, it'll tell you about the CPU usage
in terms of which process is taking the highest CPU.
It talks about the memory usage
and it can also tell you information
related to (indistinct) store.
Now, this monitoring console,
if you see it has a lot of options,
like you have indexing performance,
you also have search usage statistics.
If you go to resource usage,
you have resource usage by instance,
resource usage by machine,
you have forwarder related configuration.
So all of these dashboards
comes pre-built with the monitoring console.
And typically when you have Splunk instance
up and running in a production,
monitoring console is one of the important component
that you should be regularly looking at.
So, for example, if we go to the resource usage,
if you will see a bit down,
it says that that these are the amount of course,
this is the machine host name, and if you go down,
it gives you the disc usage for the root partition
for the OPT Splunk water partition.
And if you go a bit down,
you'll get more information related to CPU usage by process
and various others.
Same goes for the resource usage on the machine level.
And if you go bit down,
it basically will give you information
related to physical memory which has been used,
the amount of load average that is there on the machine
and various others dashboards comes pre-built here.
Along with that,
if you typically go to the indexing performance,
this will typically show you
how the indexing performance works.
So I'm sure you might have already seen this diagram
or not exactly this diagram, but something similar to this
when we were discussing about the indexer component
where we had the parsing pipeline
as well as the indexing pipeline over here.
So after index pipeline, the data directly goes to the disc.
So based on this, you get various performance matrix
related to the indexing rate.
You can search by source type, index, host,
as well as the source.
And if you go a bit down,
you get estimated CPU usage by Splunk processor
and there are various other dashboards which are built-in.
Along with that, the search usage statistics
also proves to be important many times.
So typically it gives you the search
as well as the median run time on
what is the run time in terms of timeline it takes
as well as the long running searches.
This is also important because it might happen
that there is a search which is running in the background,
which is taking huge amount of CPU and memory,
and any user who is trying to do search
at that amount of time,
they're not able to get the results
in a meaningful amount of time.
So for such use-cases,
you can look into the long running searches.
This is very similar to the long queries
or I would say a slow query in terms of database structure.
So, all of these are part of the monitoring console.
So that's about it
in terms of the monitoring console component discussion.
I hope this video has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Our Community ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Indexer Clustering ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we will be discussing at a high level
overview about the indexer clustering.
Now, in the previous section we were discussing
about indexer as a component.
Now, one important part to remember is that till now,
we have been doing all the activities
within a single Splunk instance.
And let's say whatever data you have
in your Splunk instance and your Splunk instance goes down
then typically what would happen is your data would
either be lost or it would be inaccessible
till you bring back your Splunk.
So this is the reason why for corporate environment,
it is very important to ensure
that a high availability is present
and this can be achieved with the help of indexer cluster.
So within your Splunk enterprise instance,
if you go to settings,
and if you click on indexer clustering,
you see you have a option for enabling indexer clustering.
So by default, you do not have this enabled.
So if you click on enable indexer clustering,
there are three options that you'll be presented with.
One is the master node, second is the peer node,
and third is the search head nodes.
So let's understand what these mean.
Now, master node basically coordinates the activities
of peer node.
And peer node are basically the nodes
which contains the actual data
and it performs the replication related activities
or any activities which master node
tells the peer node to do.
Now we can understand this
with a simple indexer cluster architecture,
where you have one master node here
and you have two peer nodes which are present.
Now, depending upon the data size that you might have
for your organization,
the amount of peer nodes that you would need
typically would vary.
Now, currently you have two peer nodes here
but there are organizations who have 10
or even 20 indexer peer nodes.
So when you have a larger indexer peer node,
let's say you have 10 indexer peer nodes,
there needs to be some leader
who can inform about the configurations,
about the settings to all of the peer nodes.
And that leader who dictates the configuration,
the search factor related, the replication factor related,
and various other configuration settings.
So that is called as the master indexer.
So master indexer is responsible to inform each
and every peer node about the configuration set
that they should be adhering to.
And this is the reason why, typically you would be asked
whether this node that you are configuring,
whether you want it to be a master node
or you want it to be a peer node.
Now, search head node is a different aspect altogether,
which is basically used for searching.
Now when it comes to pure indexer clustering,
you would need a master node and you would need a peer node.
These are the only two aspects that you will be working it,
whenever you are working on indexer clustering.
Now, one more important part that I would like to share
before we conclude this video is that
what master indexer or the master node
does not take part in the replication by itself.
So let's say you add a data to indexer node zero one,
it'll get replicated to indexer node zero two
or it can even get replicated
to other indexer node which are present within the cluster
but it'll not get replicated to the master indexer here.
So master indexer is solely responsible
for informing or for dictating the peer nodes
about the configuration settings
that it should be adhering to.
Master node, by itself, does not take part
in the replication of data by itself.
So this is one important aspect to remember.
So this is it about today's video.
What we'll be doing in the upcoming video is
we'll be designing the infrastructure which will be needed
for master indexer and for two peer nodes.
And once we have the infrastructure ready,
we can go ahead and perform the configuration aspect
for the indexer cluster.
So this is it about today's video.
I hope this has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Infrastructure for Indexer Cluster ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video we will be discussing
about the infrastructure that we need
as part of this section of indexer clustering.
Now if you look into the basic indexer cluster architecture
you have one master note and you have two peer nodes.
You can have 3, 5, 7 et cetera
whatever peer nodes that you need.
But the minimum that we need is two peer nodes
so that we can also test various capabilities
like what would happen if peer indexer node one goes down
will the data still process
and so many other testing approaches.
So as part of the cluster architecture, what we need
we need three servers.
First will act as a master indexer
second will act as a peer indexer node
one third will act as a peer indexer node two.
Now, along with that
I have also added a naming convention here.
So the master indexer will refer to
as a Splunk MIDX01.
So this is the master indexer 01.
The peer indexer node zero one will be referred
as Splunk IDX01
and the peer indexer node 02 will be referred
to as Splunk IDX 02.
So few things that you need to do.
First, you have to launch three servers
representing one master indexer and two peer indexer notes.
Make sure that you also give right set of naming convention
because if you give right set of naming convention
now you'll be following this
in the production environment as well.
So this is one thing that I'll recommend you to do.
And once the servers are launched, you can go ahead
and install and start splunking all of them.
Now, do note that you can also go ahead
and launch three docker containers representing each one
of them in case you're comfortable with Docker.
So just to give you an overview about the infrastructure
I have already launched it.
So you'll see I have three virtual machines.
One is call MIDX01
and then you have IDX01, IDX02.
And in all three of them I have installed Splunk.
So you have the first representing the master indexer
second representing indexer 01
third representing indexer 02.
So now that we have three Splunk instances up
and running in the upcoming video
we'll be configuring the master indexer.
And once the master indexer is set up
we'll be configuring the peer indexer and then
we'll be testing various failure capabilities as well.
So these are the three things that I am expecting
that you will also go ahead
and keep it ready so that we can start
with our amazing practicals of indexer clustering.
So with this will conclude today's video.

--- Configuring Master Indexer ---

Instructor: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll be configuring the first component
of the indexer cluster, which is the master indexer.
Now, we have already seen the indexer cluster architecture.
So, the first thing that we need to configure
is the master indexer.
Now, once this is configured,
then we can go ahead and configure the peer indexer node one
and the peer indexer node two.
Now, speaking about the master indexer,
there are three important pointers that we need to remember.
First is, a cluster has only and only one master node.
So, this is one important part to remember.
At the time, there can only be one master node.
Second is, master node is responsible for coordinating
the activities between the peer nodes within the cluster.
And third important pointer is,
the master node by itself does not store
or replicate the data.
So, these are the three important pointers
with respect to the master indexer node.
So with this, let's open up the Splunk.
So, let's quickly log in here.
So, within my Splunk enterprise, I'll go to settings,
I'll go to indexer clustering,
and we'll enable the indexer clustering.
Now, this thing we'll be selecting the master node,
and we'll click on next.
Now, there are four important settings here.
One is the replication factor, second is search factor,
third is security key, and fourth is cluster label.
So among this, the replication and search factor
is the two most important configuration setting
within the indexer clustering that we need to set.
So, let's go ahead and understand what replication factor
and search factor means.
Now, the replication factor, basically, determines how
many copy of data your cluster will maintain.
Now, this specific configuration setting is a key factor
in determining the cluster's fault tolerance capability.
So, if you take a simple example over here,
let's say that if we want to ensure that the system,
or your cluster, can handle the failure
of up to two peer nodes,
then we must configure the replication factor of three,
which means cluster will store three identical copies
of data on a separate node.
So currently, if you'll see,
there are three peer nodes over here,
and we have the replication factor of three.
That means one copy of data will be stored
in each of the peer nodes.
That, basically, means that there will be total
of three identical copies of data on separate nodes.
So here, even if the node one and node two goes down,
you still have one identical copy
within the node three and your data will be searchable
and your data will be impact.
And hence, replication factor proves to be
one of the very important configuration settings
when you configure your indexer clustering.
The second important factor here is the search factor.
Now, search factor, basically, determines the number
of immediately searchable copies of data
that the cluster maintains.
Now, there are two important concepts.
One is searchable copy, and second is non-searchable copy.
Now, if you typically,
remember during the video of indexes,
where we were discussing about the bucket life cycle,
in the bucket life cycle,
there was something called a frozen bucket.
And, within the frozen bucket,
all you had was the compressed file.
You do not really have the index there.
So, a non-searchable copy is, basically, a plain raw data
without any index file.
All right, so this is what a non-searchable copy means.
Searchable copy, basically, means it contains the raw data,
and it also contains extensive index files,
so that the searching becomes much more faster and scalable.
So, that's the difference
between searchable copy and non-searchable copy.
So, now that we understood the replication factor
and the search factor,
we can go ahead and configure both of them.
So, let's do one thing, the replication factor,
since we are following this architecture
where we have two nodes, and what we want is that
if one node goes down, we also want a second node.
So, basically, we want two identical copies
of data to be present.
So, we'll put the replication factor of two.
Now, a search factor is, basically, we already discussed.
One important pointer to remember within the search factor
is that non-searchable copy of data will utilize
lesser disk space when compared
with the searchable copy of data.
This is important part to remember.
So, you can configure the search factor.
I'll keep it as two.
The next configuration is the security key.
Now, security keys, basically, useful for authenticating
the communication that happens
between master node, like, communication that happens
between master node peer nodes,
as well as when the search head connects.
So, this is the security key.
What we'll do is, we'll configure the security key.
I'll configure security key.
So, this is like a password.
You can configure, so far my case,
I'll just say password here.
And, the last factor here is the cluster label.
So, this is just to identify the cluster.
I'll say KP labs underscore indexer underscore cluster.
So, these are the configuration settings for master node.
We'll go ahead and enable the master node.
Once you do this,
you'll have to restart your Splunk instance.
Will do a restart now.
Perfect. So, our restart is now successful.
So, let me quickly log in.
And this time, now you are under the indexer clustering.
So, this is the master node.
And currently, you just have one tab here.
The tab name is Splunk hyphen M I D X zero one.
So, this is the host name of our M I D X zero one server.
And you do not really have any peer nodes.
So, once you configure peer node,
you will see much more better details here.
So, that's about it for the master node configuration.
In the upcoming video, we'll go ahead
and we'll configure the peer node,
and we'll look into how exactly the peer node gets attached
within the master node console.

--- Configuring Peer Indexers ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video
we had configured our first component
as part of the indexer clustering architecture
which is the master indexer.
And at the end, after the component is configured,
under the indexer clustering, you should see
that this is representing the master node.
So in today's video, we'll go ahead
and configure the peer indexer node 0.1
and the peer indexer node 0.2.
So the first tab over here is the master indexer.
Second is the indexer 0.1,
third is the indexer 0.2.
All right, so within the peer indexer 0.1
let's go to the indexer clustering.
Now, similar to the master indexer
we have to enable the indexer clustering.
This time we'll be selecting the role of peer note.
I'll do a next.
Now, within here it is basically asking the master url.
So basically the peer indexer node has to connect
to the central master indexer.
And you'll have to supply the address over here.
So the address you can directly copy from url.
Let me copy this up.
I'll paste it.
And the port it is already specifying, which is 889.
All right.
Now the next part is the replication port.
So this is the port that you can decide.
So let me just give port of 8085.
You have to make sure that this does not coincide
with any other port that is already used.
The next important part is the security key
which is used as a authentication.
So you can just supply the security key,
the same key that you had used
while configuring the master indexer.
Once then you can go ahead and enable the peer node.
Once the peer node is configured, you will have to restart.
So let me go ahead and click on restart now.
In a similar way,
let's also quickly configure the peer indexer node 0.2.
I'll enable the indexer clustering.
We'll select the peer node.
Let's specify the master url, followed by the port 8089.
Peer application port,
you have to keep it same as the indexer node 0.1,
and we'll supply the security key,
and we'll enable the peer node.
We'll restart the peer node 0.2 as well.
Great.
So now from the master indexer, you'll see that
under the peers there are two nodes that are added
which is Splunk IDX 0.1, Splunk IDX 0.2.
And it states that the search factor as well
as the replication factor are matched.
So this is how the indexer clustering console
on the master indexer looks like, if you would observe it
in the peer indexer.
Let's quickly log in.
So within the peer node, this is how the indexer
clustering console should look like.
It is clearly giving you information that the clustering
is present, and this is the peer node.
Great.
So at this stage, our Splunk indexer clustering is set up.
So in the upcoming video, we will go ahead and look
into various capabilities related to replication
as well as we'll be doing failure capabilities.
Like if one of the node goes down, what would be the impact
on the data that you have indexed in this plan cluster.
So a lot of exciting videos to go through.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Testing Replication Capabilities ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now that we have our indexer cluster set up
the first important feature that will be
testing is the replication.
Now, basically what happens is
that any data that is being sent
to the peer indexer node zero one
it will replicate to all other peer nodes.
And similarly, any data that is sent to the peer index
and node zero two, it will replicate
to all other peer nodes.
So this is one of the important capabilities
of replication that we will be testing in today's video.
Now, before we do that
if you'll look into the indexes over here
there are three indexes, audit, internal and telemetry.
So basically whatever indexes that you have
it should have two
searchable as well
as replicated data copies over here.
This is one important note to remember
since we have two peer nodes.
So what we'll be doing from the indexer node zero one
so from this peer indexer node zero one
we will be uploading some sample data
and then we'll check from the peer index
and node zero two if that data is available.
All right, so let's go ahead
and upload some data from the peer node one.
So let's upload the file.
So from the tutorials data
I'll be uploading the access log that we have.
I'll do it next. The source type,
It has detected it correctly
in the host field.
We are just putting it as blank, IDX zero one, so
that we know that this data was uploaded from IDX zero one.
And you can either create a new index
or you can use the default one.
Let's use the default one to begin with.
We'll do a review and we'll click on submit.
Perfect. So now we have uploaded the data
in the peer node zero one.
So let's log into the peer node zero two
and see if that data is searchable from here.
So from the peer node zero two
let's go back to the search and reporting app.
We'll go to data summary.
And at this stage you see us plunk
IDX zero one as the host
and it is basically also showing us the access log.
Now again, do note that depending upon the size of the data
the amount of time it takes
for the replication to happen also increases.
So you can wait for maybe four to five minutes
for the access log to appear
if you are uploading larger data. Then again
it will take more amount of time.
So let's select to all time here
and you see all of the data is available.
Now along with this, under the indexes as well
if you'll see, you now have the fourth index
which is the main index, and it is two out of two for
both the searchable as well as the replicated data copies.
So ideally in the clustered environment
of indexer clustering
this is the nice output that you'll always expect.
However, things can go wrong all the time.
So in the next video we'll look into
what will happen if one of the peer indexer goes down
or what will happen if both of the peer indexers goes down
what happens to the data in such cases.
So we'll keep that exciting part for the next video.
And with this we'll conclude the replication related video
for index cell clustering.

--- Testing Failover Capabilities ---

-: Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video we'll be testing up
the failover capabilities as part of the indexer cluster.
So what we'll be doing, at this stage if you look
into the main index where our access log has been uploaded,
it is available in both the peer node one
as well as peer node two.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and bring down the peer node one
and see if the data is still searchable.
So currently I'm logged into both the peer node zero one
as well as the peer node zero two.
So since we had uploaded the data
from the peer node zero one,
let's go ahead and stop the Splunk instance from here.
Great, now at this stage, immediately here you see
it states that the search factor is not met
as well as the replication factor is not met.
Primarily because we only have two set of nodes
that are available.
So generally introduction environments
you have a lot more peer nodes.
However, since we are just testing it,
we just have two nodes.
Now, in a similar way, it is also showing that
the Splunk IDX01 not fully searchable
and the status is shutting down.
And similarly, for the indexes out of two
it is showing that only one is currently available.
So if you'll quickly open up the Splunk peer node zero one
it basically states disconnected as expected.
So now from the peer node zero two
let's still verify if this data is searchable.
So let's go to Search and Reporting app.
Let's go to the data summary.
And you see the data is still searchable.
If you just want to verify, you can just open this up.
Let's select this to all time.
Perfect, so all of our data is still searchable
even if one of the peer node goes down
and this verifies our replication capability.
Now, what will happen if the second peer node goes down?
Let's quickly identify that as well.
Now, before we do that, one more important thing I wanted
to show you is that from the master indexer as well,
you can go ahead and search the data of the peer node.
So ideally you should not be logging into peer node one
or peer node two individually.
You should log into the component which is acting
as a search head where the queries can be raised from.
So if you look into the search head,
the Splunk MIDX01 is acting as a search head.
So ideally you should be searching the data from here.
Now, let me quickly show you.
Now, in ideal scenario
you will have a dedicated search head.
We'll be discussing about this in the later sections
but just we are assuming that MIDX01 is acting
as a search head and we'll be searching the data from here.
So if you'll go to the Search and Reporting,
in the data summary you should see that
you have this Splunk IDX01 that is available.
Great, so we have master indexer up
and we have the peer node zero two up
and the data is searchable.
Now let's bring down the peer index and node zero two.
So from the terminal,
let's say OPT Splunk bin Splunk restart.
Now before we do that, let's go ahead
and upload some data in the peer index and node zero two.
I just wanted to show you a few things here.
We'll upload some sample data again.
So this time we have a file called as MySQL error.txt.
We'll be uploading this file.
Now within the event breaks,
you can just say every line over here, all right?
I'll do a next.
The source type name, you can just say temp MySQL logs
and I'll click on Save.
The host will this time would be the IDX02.
Let's click on review and we'll do a submit.
Perfect, so let's quickly verify.
In fact, we will verify from the master indexer itself.
So this is the master indexer.
In the data summary, you will see that this time
you have the Splunk IDX02
and we have the log data that is available.
So now let's go ahead and bring down
the peer node zero two as well.
So let's go ahead and set it to stop, great.
Now, again from the master indexer
let's go to Search and Reporting app.
If you'll go to data summary,
this time you will not really see any results
primarily because both of the peer indexes are down.
And similarly, you will get the data
in the indexer clustering as well
stating that there are no peers that are fully searchable.
So you see both of the peers are down.
And in terms of indexes, again, you have zero searchable
as well as the replicated copies.
Now at this stage, let's bring up the peer node zero one.
So from the IDX01,
let's go ahead and start the Splunk instance, perfect.
Now, from the master indexer you see
you now have one of the searchable copies
and one of the replicated copies available
and in the PS you have one which is fully searchable.
So from the data summary of master indexer,
again, you should see that our access.log is available.
But at this stage the MySQL error log is still missing
primarily because when the data was uploaded
to peer node zero two, the indexer node zero one was down
so the data is still present in the index and node zero two.
So let's bring up the indexer node zero two as well.
Great, and now you see the IDX02 is fully searchable.
If you look into the indexes,
currently the indexes are getting replicated.
Whatever data that was missing is being replicated here.
And from the MIDX, let's look into the data summary here.
And you should see both the host data available.
Now do node that after you start one of the peer nodes
and if you immediately look into the data summary
the data will not be available.
You will have to give a minute
for the host as well as the access logs to be available.
Great, so this is it about the failover capabilities
as part of the indexer cluster study.

--- Configuration Bundles of Master Indexers ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video we will be discussing
about the configuration bundle.
Now one important part that you need to remember
specifically when you have
a indexer clustered based architecture is
that you should avoid making manual changes
in the peer node.
For example, let's say that you want to go ahead
and create a new index.
You should never create the index at a peer node level.
For example, let's say that you go ahead
and create a index called KP labs in the peer node 0-1.
Then there are certain configurations
like the index that will not be replicated
across multiple peers.
So this index of KP labs will stay at a peer index
and node level here.
And hence it is recommended
that whenever you have some configurations
that will be common to all of the peers
you should go ahead and push it via the master indexer.
So let's say that you want to create a new index,
called KP labs.
You go ahead and define it at a master indexer level.
And master indexer let it push
to all of the peer nodes.
And this is the right way of doing things.
So this common set of configurations
that you will be pushing to all of the peer indexer nodes
is referred to as a configuration bundle.
Now there is a specific location of configuration bundle
for both master and peer indexer.
So in master indexxer, at whatever configuration
that you want to push across all of the peers
you need to store it under the ETC master apps.
So you have Splunk Home.
Now again, important part to remember in documentation
whenever you'll see,
they'll always refer to it as a variable.
So this is kind of a variable of Splunk Home
primarily because depending about the operating system,
this path might change.
So for Linux servers, this would be OPD Splunk directory.
For Windows machine it would be C drive,
program files, et cetera.
So this is the variable.
And under this you have ATC master apps.
So this is where you go ahead
and define your configuration bundle.
And once you push that configuration bundle
to the peer indexer,
you will see those under the ETC slave apps directly.
All right, so this is the basics of configuration bundle.
Let's look into it practically.
Now, similar to the scenario where we were discussing
on how you should avoid creating manual changes
like creating a new index in the peer node directly.
Let's look into it here.
So I have a peer node 0-1.
Let's go ahead and go to settings.
I'll go to indexes.
And currently there are multiple index.
So all of these index are replicated.
Let's create a new index.
Let's call it as peer node index.
Alright, so this index has been manually created
and let's also type manual just for easy reference here.
I'll go ahead and I'll save the change.
Great. Now that the index is created,
let's go ahead and also add some data
to this specific index.
I'll select a file.
And from a tutorials data you can just add any log file
that you want just for simplicity.
I'll do a next.
It has correctly data mined the source type.
And this time what we'll be doing will be adding this logs
in the new index, which is peer node index manual.
I'll do a review and I'll click on submit.
Great. So now if you'll start to search it.
So here you see the index is peer node index manual.
So this is the index.
You can directly also search by the index.
So if you'll search by the index here
you'll see all of the relevant data.
Great. So now that the index
and the data is uploaded from the peer node 0-2
let's verify if it is reflected.
So this is the peer node 0-2.
Now if we look into the indexes over here
you see our manual index is not really visible over here.
And in a similar way from the peer node 0-2.
Let's do a search and reporting.
Let's add this index.
I'll select all time.
Let's do a search.
And you see it states zero events found.
So I hope you understood
on why you should avoid configuring things manually
at the indexer level.
So the right way is you go ahead
and configure things at a master indexer
and push it across multiple peer nodes.
Now as we are discussing
when you want to configure things at a master indexer level,
there is a specific directory
where you should be adding the new changes.
So currently I'm logged into the master indexer
and within here if you'll go to OPD Splunk ETC
and if you'll quickly do a LS hyphen L
you should see there is a directory, called master apps.
Now if you'll do LS hyphen L on the master apps here
you have a sub directory of cluster.
Let's quickly open it up.
Under this again, you have a default and local.
Let's open up local.
And currently you only have the README file
that is available.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and create a new index
in this specific directory
and we'll look into how we can push it to the other indexes.
So to create a index from the configuration file
which is the right way, let's go ahead
and first explore some of the sample configuration file
where index related definitions are present.
So in OPD Splunk ETC let's go to system, default.
There should be a file called indexes dot conif.
So this is a sample reference file for indexes dot conif.
So, you have a index of telemetry, et cetera.
So we'll be using it as a reference.
And let's go back to master apps cluster, local.
And in this directory let's create a file
called indexes dot conif
and before we paste it let me add it in a notepad.
So currently if you'll see, you have this index.
So this is the name of the index.
Let's call this as KP labs bundle index.
All right? So this is a sample index.
Let's go ahead and replace it
across all the lines over here.
Alright, so for this index
you are basically specifying cold path home path, et cetera.
So let's copy this.
And in the indexes dot conif
I'll go ahead and paste it over here.
When it's done, I'll save the change.
Great. So this is the step one.
The step two is to go ahead and push.
So what we have done, we have added a new indexes dot conif
in the master apps directory.
So it formulates to be a configuration bundle.
Now you have to push that configuration bundle
across the peer nodes.
So in order to do that from the master indexer
let's go to the indexer clustering.
Within here we'll do a edit.
You have a configuration bundle actions
and now you have a option to validate
and check restart to see if restart is actually needed.
So let's do a validate and check restart here.
So at this stage it states
that restart is not really required.
Now, before we actually push this bundle
from one of the indexers, let's go ahead
and verify if the KP labs index is available
or not before we are actually pushing it.
So here you see there is no KP labs index that is available.
Perfect. So now let's go ahead
and push this configuration bundle.
Perfect. So it just took few seconds
and the configuration bundle is pushed.
Now let's go ahead and refresh the page.
And you should see you have a KP labs bundle index
that is available.
You can verify it from both of the indexer peers.
So let's also verify it from the peer 0-1.
And you see you have a KP labs bundle index
that is perfectly pushed.
Now you also have a option to roll back.
Let's say some changes are not working as expected.
You can go ahead and easily roll back your changes.
So in this stage it is going ahead and restarting the peer.
Perfect. So one of the peer is restarted.
The second is restarting.
So the peer 0-1 that got restarted.
Let's quickly go ahead and log in here.
And within here you see the KP labs index
that was present is now removed.
Great. So I hope with this you understood
the basics of configuration bundle.
Now do note that this not only refers to indexes.
We basically took an example of index
but whatever applications that you download
so let's say that you have a add-on of AWS
that you want to be available across peer indexes.
You'll not go ahead and go and download it from here.
You should push that specific set of add-ons
from the master indexer to the set of peer nodes.
Great. So with this we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - indexes.conf ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Forwarding Logs to Indexer Cluster ---

-: How you doing and welcome back.
So in today's video, we'll be discussing
about the approaches in which the universal forwarder
can send the logs to the indexer cluster.
Now, do note that there are two ways
in which the universal forwarder can send the logs
to the peer indexer node.
First one is the indexer discovery feature
which is the recommended approach,
and the second one is where the forwarders
directly connect to the peer nodes
by referencing to their configuration file.
Now, in today's video, we'll be using the second approach
to understand more about it,
and then in the next video,
we'll be looking into the indexer discovery feature.
Now, in the second approach that we're discussing
which is not the recommended one,
but still, you will see this in a lot of organizations,
is where the IP addresses of the peer indexes are hard-coded
within the universal forwarder's configuration.
So let's say that you have a universal forwarder
installed in a specific system.
Inside its configuration file,
you will see the IP addresses
of all of the peer indexes that are hard-coded.
So there are two peer indexes that are part of the cluster
and both the IP addresses of these indexes
are hard-coded over here,
and the universal forwarder will pick the IP address
and then it will start to upload the data over here.
Let's say in case if one of the peer indexer goes down,
let's say that you have a 0.5
and this peer indexer goes down.
So then, the universal forwarder
will pick the 0.6 base peer indexer
and it will start to upload data there.
So this is the basics of the hard-coded configuration.
Now, one of the challenges here
is that let's say tomorrow,
there is one more peer indexer node that has come up,
then this universal forwarder does not have any details
about this peer indexer node.
So there can be thousands of universal forwarders.
None of the thousand universal forwarders
will upload the data to the new peer indexer node,
primarily, because it does not really have the IP addresses
within the configuration.
And this is one of the reasons
why it is not a recommended approach.
So let's do one thing.
Let's look into it practically
to understand things in more detail.
Now, similar to this diagram,
we have the setup available
where you have two peer indexer nodes.
So you have idx01 and idx02,
and we have one more server that we have launched,
call this forwarder 01,
which will act as a universal forwarder.
So currently, I'm logged into the forwarder 01 machine
where I have already installed the universal forwarder.
So just to revise,
the universal forwarder installation is very simple
and we have already logged into it
where you download the file, you de-package it,
and you start the universal forwarder.
So these are the three commands that I have already ran.
Now, before we start to send the data to the indexes,
let's quickly go ahead
and enable the receiving port manually
in both of these indexes, just to simplify.
So let's quickly do configure receiving,
I'll add a receiving port of 9997, all right?
So this is one of the peer indexer.
Same thing for the second peer indexer,
9997, perfect.
So now, from the forwarder 01 machine,
if we look into OPT Splunk forwarder
bin Splunk list monitor,
it will ask for authentication.
Let's quickly do that.
So currently, these are the base files.
Within here, let's go ahead and add a new monitor.
I'll say add monitor via log.
All right, and the next important thing
is we have to specify the IP address of the forward server.
Now we have already seen all of these commands
in great detail in the earlier videos,
and hence we are not having an explanation
for each and every command.
So I'll say add forward server,
and then you'll have to specify the IP addresses
of the indexer.
So let's copy one of the IP.
So first, I'll copy the IP address of index 01.
I'll paste it followed by the receiving port, which is 9997.
Now generally, when you add the command,
automatically a configuration is created.
So if you'll go to OPT Splunk etc system local outputs.conf,
here, you should see that this IP address here
and the port is added over here.
Now since we have two peer indexes,
we'll also have two add the IP address
of the second peer indexer.
So let's quickly do that.
Let's copy the IP address of idx02.
I'll paste it and I'll add it as part of the forward server.
So at this specific stage,
if you look into the outputs.conf,
you should have set of two servers over here.
So these are the two indexes that are added.
So this is very similar to what we were discussing
where the IP addresses of both the indexes are hard-coded
within the configuration,
and the universal forwarder will start
to send the data to these indexes.
Now from the master indexer,
which is also acting as a search,
let's go to search and reporting app and let's verify
if the logs from the forwarder machine are available.
So currently, you see you have a logs from forwarder 01
that is available.
So these are all the logs.
Now, as we were discussing
that if one of the peer indexer goes down,
then the universal forwarder will go ahead
and send the logs to the second peer indexer
that is part of the configuration.
So let's also look into it.
Now from the forwarder machine,
it'll quickly go to OPT Splunk forwarder via log,
and within here, let's go to the directory of Splunk
and let's explore this plugd.log.
So at this stage, you'll see it says
that connected to one of the indexers.
So this is the first indexer
and it also states connected to one more indexer.
So these are the two indexers that are available.
Let's bring down one of the indexers
and see if the logs can still be sent.
And I'm connected to the indexer 01.
Let's go ahead and manually stop it.
So I'll say OPT Splunk, bin Splunk, stop.
All right, so we are stopping the indexer
with the IP address of 167.
The second indexer that should be available
for sending logs starts from the IP of 139.
Great, so the indexer 01 is now stopped.
Now if you'll explore the logs again of universal forwarder,
at this stage, immediately here you see,
it states connection to the host
from the IP address of 161 has currently filled.
And then what it will do,
it will go ahead and use the second indexer's IP address
to send the newer logs.
So let's go ahead and verify
if the newer logs are coming or not.
So since we have added the wire log directory
as part of the monitor,
and one of the important log files is orth.log.
So if you'll do a tail on orth.log,
it basically gives you the details
associated with the authentication
if someone is trying to log into the server.
So it states invalid user Ubuntu.
So let's do one thing.
Let's log out of this server and let's try to log
into this specific server with IP address.
So I'll say SSA zeal
at the rate the IP address of the server here.
So this connection should fail,
but the log entry should be available
as part of the authentication log.
So let's log in with the correct credentials.
And to quickly verify if the entry is logged,
let's quickly do a tail on the orth log over here.
So at this stage,
you should see that there is one entry, invalid user Z.
So this is the entry.
Now, this entry should also be available in Splunk,
provided that the universal forwarder has sent it
to the working indexer node.
So from the master indexer here, let's go ahead
and search by the source type of orth.log.
And within here, you should see
that there is an entry stating close connection by user Z.
So these are the entries that were uploaded.
Great, so I hope at this stage you understood the approach
of manually configuring the IP addresses of peer indexes
within the configuration file,
and we also looked
into what happens when one of the peer indexer goes down.
So in the next video, we will be discussing in detail
about the indexer discovery feature as well.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Document - Referenced Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Implementing Indexer Discovery ---

-: Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now in today's video,
we will be discussing about the indexer discovery.
Now in the indexer discovery based method,
the IP addresses of each indexer peer nodes
are not hard-coded within the configuration.
Instead what happens is that each universal forwarder
will make a query to the master indexer
asking it for the updated list
of the peer indexes that are connected.
For example, let's say that you have a universal forwarder
that is installed in this laptop.
So this universal forwarder,
if it is using the indexer discovery based method,
it will first go ahead and
connect to the master indexer.
And then it will ask for the
list of the peer nodes.
So there are three peer nodes
that are currently available
and master indexer will go ahead
and send a list of the peer nodes
which is Splunk idx1, idx2, and idx3.
And then it uses the load balancing method
to forward the data to the set of peer nodes.
So this is one of the recommended methods
in production environments.
So let's go ahead and look into
how we can achieve this.
So for today's video, I have created
one more server called forwarder02,
which will go ahead and use the indexer discovery method
to send the data to the list of peer nodes.
So first what we need to do,
first, we have to go ahead and configure this server
with the universal forwarder.
Now we already know the set of commands
that are required to configure the universal forwarder.
So let me go ahead and use them.
Now do note that you'll have to get the wget link
from your account so that you get
the appropriate valid URL.
So from the forwarder02, let's do a quick wget.
Great, I'll do a D package I.
Perfect.
And all that is required is
opt/splunkforwarder/bin/splunk start.
Let's press space bar,
and I'll type Y.
Let's also set the username and password.
And great.
Our Splunk universal forwarder is up and running.
Now at this stage, let's go ahead
and also set the monitor directory.
So I'll say opt/splunkforwarder/bin/splunk.
I'll say add monitor, and let's say
(indistinct) log directory.
Let's quickly authenticate.
Great. So this directory has been added to monitor
however the logs are not yet been
sent to the indexer nodes.
Now when we discuss about the
indexer discovery method, there needs to be
configuration that has to be set at a
master indexer level first because the universal
forwarder will send the query to the master indexer.
So master indexes should know
that the queries plan to come and it
has to send the replies with the active peer nodes.
So this is the first configuration.
And in the second configuration
at a universal forwarder level,
you will have to supply the details
of the master indexer because universal forwarder
needs to know what is the address
of the master indexer that it needs to connect to
to fetch the IP addresses of the indexer peer nodes.
So two set of configurations that are required.
Now the first important configuration is
the indexer discovery methods.
So you have to enable this specific feature.
Now the first important configuration you have
to supply at a master indexer level.
So basically you will have to enable the indexer
discovery feature.
And this is a very simple configuration
which states indexer discovery.
And you'll have to supply the password simply.
So this is like a password.
So whenever a universal forwarder connects
to the master indexer
it needs to authenticate with this same password.
And where you have to add this configuration,
you will have to add it under the
ETC system local server.com.
So in the Splunk MIDX machine,
Let's quickly go to OPT
Splunk
ETC system
local.
And if you do a list,
there is already a server dot connect.
Let's quickly open this up
and there are multiple configurations that are available
over here.
Let's go ahead
and add the indexer discovery based configuration
and let me paste it over here.
Now do note that at this stage the pass for sync key
we have just supplied it as password.
You can change it depending upon your use case.
And after you restart your Splunk
this plain text password would be converted
to something like a hash.
So let's go ahead and save this and
let's restart the Splunk instance.
So I'll say OPT Splunk bin Splunk restart.
Great, so our Splunk is up and running.
And now if you'll just revisit
the server dot com forwarder
you should see that this
indexer discovery based configuration
the password is now hashed over here.
So you'll not really see the plain text password.
Great. Now that the master indexer is ready to
receive the indexer discovery based request,
we have to also configure the forwarder so
that it sends the request to this MIDX machine.
So within the forwarder, what you'll have to do
you'll have to go to opt Splunk forwarder
ETC
system local
and
within here you have to create a new file
call outputs.com
if we have already discussed
on what output dot (indistinct) is all about.
And within there, what you have to do is you
will have to supply the highlighted forwarder configuration.
The configuration is very simple.
You see it states indexer discovery master.
So basically you are stating
that whatever configuration that you're adding
it's for the master of indexer discovery method.
Now here you'll also have to supply the pass for SIM key
which should be the same that you have added
in the MIDX machine.
And the last thing is the master.
You are a primarily where you have to supply the IP address
of the master indexer.
So let me copy the IP address of master indexer.
So what I'll do
I'll paste the IP address of master indexer,
I'll copy the configuration here,
and let me paste it to here.
Alright, I'll save the change.
And before we actually go ahead
and restart the universal forwarder,
which uses the indexer discovery based method,
let's quickly explore the search
and reporting app to see if there is
any data from the forwarder zero two machine.
So at this stage you only have
forwarder zero one machine
that we had configured in the earlier video.
So now it is safe to restart.
So let's do that.
So I'll say OPT Splunk forwarder bin Splunk restart.
Perfect. Now in order to verify
you can also go ahead and do a tail
on OPT Splunk forwarder via log plunk splunk d dot log.
And at this stage you see it was able to
identify the IP address of one of the indexes
which is starting from 139.
And the same you'll see one
of the indexes here, which is IDX two.
It is starting from the IP address of 139.
So from the search and reporting app
this time you see you are getting the logs
from the forwarder zero two machine.
If we'll just open this up,
these are all the log files over here.
Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics
of indexer discovery method.

--- Indexer Discovery - Document ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overview of Search Head Clustering ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now in today's video we will be discussing
about the search head clustering.
Now at this stage we have already set up the indexer cluster
and there are three primary components here.
First one is the master indexer
and then you have the two peer indexer nodes.
Now all of the data is residing in this indexer nodes.
Now if you want to search the data,
what you can do you can go to the master indexer,
and from there you can search the data
that is indexed across the peer nodes.
Now at this stage, you should note
that the indexer nodes are primarily designed
to index the data from multiple sources.
So it is recommended that you make sure
that it remains that way.
Now, first one is the indexing of data.
That is the first primary component.
Second primary component is searching of data.
So the search
and reporting is a resource intensive application
and it can slow down a indexer node
if large queries are ran.
Now since indexer notes are typically designed
to index the data,
there can be thousands of universal forwarder
in your environment that might be sending the data
to the indexer nodes.
And if you log into indexer nodes
and run large search queries or design certain dashboards
it will slow down and affect your entire Splunk environment.
And hence it is recommended
that you should avoid the searching of data
from the indexer cluster component.
So the responsibility of overall search management
is the aim of the search head component.
So the search head component
is responsible to handle the search management functions
directing the search queries to a set of search peers
and also merging the result back to the users.
So all the users who wants to search some data
from your Splunk environment will go ahead
and first log into the search head based Splunk instance.
This search head based Splunk instance
is connected to your entire indexer cluster
and whatever queries that user will run at a searcher level
will be forwarded to the indexer cluster.
The results will be phased back.
It will be merged and it'll be given back to the users.
Now, generally in the environment
that we had basically set up
where we had a set of indexer cluster
and we have a MIDX machine.
So if you look into the indexer clustering console
we have one peer that is up.
And if you look into the search at this Splunk MIDX,
0-1 is acting as a search head.
So any data that you want to search
you search it from the search head
and MIDX is taking the responsibility
in this specific architecture.
Now, generally in smaller organizations
where budget is a constraint,
you will see that MIDX machine will act as a search head.
Users will log in here and perform the search operations.
However, for professional enterprise instances
this should not be the case.
You should go ahead
and have a dedicated search head instances.
Now one more important part to remember
is that let's say that there is one Splunk instance
that is acting as a search head.
And if that Splunk instance goes down,
then the users essentially
will not be able to do anything there.
So it is important that you also
set up a clustered architecture
for the search head component
similar to how you have set up the clustered architecture
for the indexer component.
Now, if you look into the clustered architecture here
of the search head component.
So this is basically the search head cluster
where you have multiple set of instances
that are acting as the cluster members.
And these instances will go ahead
and connect to the search peer.
Search peers are basically the indexer peers
where the actual data resides
and the cluster members which are part
of the search head cluster
will phase their data from the search peers
and give it back to the users over here.
Great. So this part is easy to understand.
Now, one more important part that you need to note
is that there is one more component
that you see on the right called the deployer.
Now, similar to the indexer cluster
where you have a set of peer indexer nodes
and you also had a set of master indexer nodes.
This master indexer node was responsible
for pushing a configuration bundle to the indexer peers.
We have already seen this practically
in the earlier set of videos.
Similar to that, for the search head component
you also have a deployer.
Now the deployer is basically used to push
the configuration bundle to the search head cluster.
So let's say that you want to have a AWS application
in the set of search head cluster nodes.
What you will do, you'll go ahead
and tell the deployer to push this AWS app to search head.
And this deployer will go ahead
and push the entire configuration bundle
to all of the search head node.
So the responsibility of configuration bundle push
is very similar to that of the master indexer over here.
Great. So this is a very high level overview
about the search head clustering.
We'll go ahead and implement the entire cluster architecture
along with deploy in the upcoming videos.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Infrastructure for Search Head Cluster ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now, in today's video,
we'll look into the infrastructure that we need
as part of our search head clustering based practicals.
So in total there will be three servers
that would be needed.
And this is also depicted in this diagram
where two of the servers will be part
of the search head cluster members.
So you will have a asset zero one and asset zero two,
which basically stands for search head zero one,
search head zero two.
And along with that, there'll also be one more server
which is a deployer, which is generally used
to push the configuration bundle
to board the search head cluster members
or any search head cluster members.
It can be, let's say there are a total
of seven search head cluster members,
all of the configuration bundle
in all of these servers
would be pushed through deployer.
In case if you are still wondering
what a configuration bundle is,
we'll be discussing it in the upcoming videos.
So this is very similar to the architecture diagram
of search head clustering that we have already seen.
Whereas part of the search head cluster members,
there will be certain number of servers
and then there'll also be a deployer
for pushing the configuration bundle.
So this is the first step that will be needed.
And in the next step what we'll have to do,
the search head cluster members,
we'll have to integrate it with the indexes
so that they can fetch the data
from the indexer peers, and you can see all of the data
from search head itself.
Great. So before we conclude,
let me quickly show you the servers
that are needed here.
So if you look into my cloud environment
I have launched three more servers.
One is referred to as Splunk asset zero one,
second is Splunk asset zero two,
and third is Splunk deployer.
And in each one of them you can go ahead and install Splunk.
So this would be the requirement for today's video.
In the next video onwards, we'll directly go ahead
and set up the search head members as well as the deployer.

--- Setting Up Search Head Clustering ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
So I hope at this stage, you have created three new servers,
two of them for searches and third one for deploy.
So just to revise, three total virtual machines
are required and in all three of them
we have to install Splunk.
Now I have already installed Splunk in all three of them.
So let's take a random IP, I take the IP of deployer,
and let's verify if Splunk is up and running.
So from a new browser tab,
let's specify the port 8000 for deployer.
And as expected, our Splunk logging console is working.
So now that we have Splunk up and running,
the next important thing is we have to set up
each and every component.
Now the first component that we'll be setting up
is the deployer.
So do remember that as part of the searcher cluster.
First, you'll set up the deploy,
and then you'll set up each and every cluster members.
So this is the command document
that we'll be referencing in today's video.
So we'll go through each one of them in great detail.
So the first component as we were discussing
is setting up their deployer.
Now in order to set up deployer, it is very simple.
All you'll have to do is you have to add
this specific stanza
under the server.confetcsystemlocal
And what does this stanza signify?
So you have a searcher clustering here.
You are setting up the passport sim key.
So this is very similar
to what we had done in the indexer clustering setup.
So I hope you know what this means.
And the second one is the search head cluster label.
So we are adding a label
to the search head cluster that we are setting up
and the label is KPlabs-shcluster.
You can give any name that you intend to give over here.
So very simple configuration here.
Let's go ahead and set it up.
So currently within the (indistinct) I'm connected
to all three servers.
First tab is for deploy, second for SS zero one
third for SS zero two.
So from the deploy, let's quickly go
to opt Splunk ETC system local.
And if you'll see
over here there is a file called a server dot con.
If we are interested in modifying this specific file
let's go to the last line.
I'll copy this stanza and let me paste
over here then let's go ahead and save this.
Great. After you have done that
let's go ahead and quickly restart Splunk.
I'll say OPT, Splunk, bin, Splunk, restart.
So til the time this completes
let's go ahead and set up the search head members now.
In order to set up search and members
the command is very simple.
So you are basically referencing to the Splunk binary.
You are saying initialize the search head cluster
configuration.
You are specifying the management URA.
So in the management URA you'll have to specify
the IP address of the search head member
where you are running this specific command.
Alright, so this is a variable over here.
Then you're specifying the replication boat
then you're specifying the search head cluster label.
This is something that we have already seen.
And then you have to specify the IP address of the deployer.
So this is the deploy IP address over here.
And then you also have to specify the secret
which is the password that we had set.
So this is the basic configuration.
This configuration will be same
for all of the cluster members.
Let's go ahead and let me copy it one more time
and we'll replace the variable over here.
So first, let's copy the IP address
of SS zero one server and let's replace it over here.
And the second variable is the deployer IP.
So let's copy the deployer IP
and let me go ahead and replace it over here.
Alright, so this is the basic command.
Let's go ahead and copy this up.
So a deploy server is restarted.
Let's go to search head zero one
and I paste this specific command.
Let's specify the user name as well as the password.
Perfect. So immediately you see it states the
search head clustering has been initialized on this node.
And in order for us to have the new effect
we'll have to restart the server.
Now before we restart the server
I wanted to show you one more thing.
Let me copy the IP address of SS zero one
and let's replace it over here with 48,000.
Let's quickly log in.
Now within here notice that if we go to settings
there are a lot of setting related options
that are available.
Now after search head clustering is enabled
then you'll have a limited number
of configuration options that will be available here.
Let's quickly verify.
So let's go ahead and quickly restart Splunk.
Perfect. So automatically we got logged out.
So let's quickly log in again.
And now if you go to settings, you see the number
of options that you see over here is now much more limited
primarily because this specific instance is taking
up the role of search head clustering.
And also in the distributed environment you'll
see a new option of search head clustering warrior.
Great. Now, similar to how we have set up
the search head cluster member one
let's also do it for the cluster member two.
So let me copy the IP address of cluster member two.
And all you'll have to do is you'll have to
replace the IP over here
and rest everything remains to be the same.
I'll copy this command and in the search
at cluster member two, let's go ahead and paste it.
Let's add the authentication details.
Perfect. And let's go ahead and restart Splunk.
Great. Now if you look into this architecture diagram
we have set up two searcher cluster members.
We have also set up the deploy.
Now here you'll see there is one more server called captain
and the captain role can move between cluster members.
So what you'll do we'll have to set up one of the servers
as a captain.
Now generally you can have three servers.
This is the recommended approach, but just for simplicity
we are just setting up two servers.
So the next important step is we have to add a captain
so we can designate one
of the servers as captain to begin with.
Now to designate one of the servers as captain
the command is very simple.
So all you have to do is you'll have to
run this Splunk boots stack command
for setting up the search head cluster member captain.
And all you'll have to do is you'll have to
specify the IP address of search at zero one
and the IP address of search head zero two
and run this command
in one of the search head members over here.
So let's do one thing.
Let's copy the IP address of search head zero one
and I will replace it over here.
And we already have the IP address
of search head member zero two and I'll replace it
over here.
All right, so very simple.
Come on, let's copy this up.
And you can run this in any of the cluster member over here.
It is completely fine.
Let's run it in search head zero one and I'll paste it here.
Let's quickly log in.
Alright, so now it states successfully bootstrap this note
as the captain within the given server.
So the SS zero one is acting as a captain.
So now let's quickly go ahead and verify the entire setup.
So within settings, let's go to search head clustering.
And at this stage you should see two members over here
and the Splunk SS zero one is currently taking up the role
as the captain.
So this is the basics on how you can set up the search head
clustering for Splunk.

--- Document - Search Head Cluster Setup ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Validating Search Head Replication ---

-: Hi everyone and welcome back.
Now that we have set up
the search head clustering based architecture,
one important thing that you need to notice
that between the set of cluster members,
there are certain configuration
and settings that are replicated over here.
For example, if you modify a few things
or if you add few things in one of the cluster members,
it will be replicated across all of the cluster members.
Now, there are certain things that are replicated by default
like alert actions, data models, users, macros, lookups,
even types, and so on.
So whenever you do these things
in any one of the search head members,
it will be replicated among all of them.
Now at this stage we have two search head members
that are available, SS01 and SS02.
So what we'll be doing,
we'll be taking up one of the example from here
and we'll see whether the things are replicated or not.
So let's do one thing.
Let's go to the search head 02 server
and we'll create a new user.
So let's copy the IP address of search head 02.
Let's add the port 8,000.
And let's quickly log in.
So the first tab is for the search head 01
and the second tab is for search head 02.
Now if you'll go to settings over here
and if you'll go to users,
you'll see that there is only one user
that is currently available
and the same you will see
even for the search head 02 instance.
So let's go ahead
and create one more user in search head 02,
let's call it as SH 02 user.
And let's quickly set up the password
and I'll assign a administrator role for this user.
And I'll also deselect the checkbox,
which says require password change on first login.
Let's click on save.
Perfect, so we have the SS02 user.
Now if you'll go to search head 01,
let's refresh this page.
And now you see the SS02 user is also replicated over here.
So I hope at a high level overview,
you understood what the replication
between the search head cluster members is all about.
Now, generally also note that
once you have set up the search head
within your environment,
you will not give any log in credentials
to the indexer machines,
to the deployer machines, et cetera.
The only log in credentials which users would have
would be of that of the search head.
Other than that, there is no other credentials
that needs to be given.
And we already know if you just create a new user
in any of the search head cluster member,
it will be replicated.
So the end user
who wants to do searching on your Splunk environment,
they will have to log into the Splunk instance,
which is the search head
and from search head, they can go ahead
and do the entire searching related capability.
Now at this stage, the search head is not really connected
to any of the indexer peers.
So if you'll quickly go to the search and reporting app
in the data summary,
you will not really have anything over here.
As of now,
all of the data is part of the indexer peer machine.
So we have multiple indexer machines that are available
and the data is present over here.
So in order for the data to be available,
because at the end,
users will be logging into the search head members only.
They will not have any access to indexer or master indexer.
So they should be able to see all of the data
from the search head members.
So we'll also have to set up the connection
between the indexer peers and the search head members
for the entire setup to work.
So this is something that we'll also be doing
in the upcoming videos.
However, the aim of today's video was to understand
on how certain things are replicated
among the search head cluster members.
So with this, we'll conclude today's video.

--- Pushing Artifacts through Deployer ---

-: Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier set of videos,
we had set up the search head cluster based architecture
where we had to search head and the deploy as well.
Now in today's video, we look into the role of deploy
from a practical point of view.
Now, in the earlier videos of search head clustering
we were already discussing that the primary aim of deploy
is to push a set of configuration bundle
to the instances that are part of the search head cluster.
And one of the configuration bundle components
can include a certain app or a certain add-on.
So in today's video, what we'll be doing
we'll be downloading a app or a add-on at a deploy
and then we'll be pushing it to the set
of search head cluster members.
Now, one important part that we need to note
is that from the search head cluster members,
it is important that you do not directly download
a app or a add-on over here.
For example, I am logged in
to one of the search head cluster members.
So let's say that you need a AWS add-or AWS app
then it is very important that you do not install it here.
Do note that not all of the items gets replicated
across search head cluster members.
Only there are specific configurations that are replicated
like users, alert actions, et cetera.
Not everything gets replicated.
And similar to that, in order to discourage,
if you'll quickly try to download a new app
or a new add-on on a specific search head cluster members,
it'll not allow you to do it directly from the GUI.
So here you see there is no install option.
So this is one of the search head cluster members
and there is no install option that you see over here.
So this is one of the ways in which Splunk is telling you
to not install app directly
in these search head cluster members.
So what is the way, let's say that you have a specific app
that you need across all of the search head members.
So what you'll do, you'll install the app at a deploy level
and from the deploy level,
you push it to all of the search head cluster members.
So in today's video, this is something that we'll be doing.
So let's quickly log into the Deploy machine.
So currently this is the deploy.
Let's close the search head tab.
And from the Deploy,
if you'll quickly try to install any app over here,
you see you are seeing this install button.
Now, let's do one thing.
Let's go ahead and install any random app over here.
Let me search for Linux quickly.
Alright, so there are multiple apps, add-ons over here.
Let's go ahead and install the Splunk app
for Unix and Linux.
You can do it with any other apps as well.
So let's specify the credentials,
once there you can go and accept the terms
and click on Login and Install.
Perfect, so this app has been installed.
Let's go ahead and not restart it right now.
Now from the Deploy machine where we had installed the app,
let's quickly go to OPT Splunk ETC.
And if you'll do a LS over here, you should see
that there is a new directory called as Assets Cluster.
Now if you'll quickly look into the assets cluster over here
it will have two sub directories of apps and users.
So any app that you want to push
to all of the search head members,
you'll be adding that app in this specific directory.
Now we have already downloaded a specific app over here
in the Deploy machine
so that app should be available in the apps directory.
So let's quickly go to the app's directory over here
and there should be our app of Linux.
So this is the one that we are interested in
which is Splunk app for NIX.
So let's do one thing.
Let's move this entire directory of Splunk app for NIX
and let's move it to OTP Splunk ETC SH cluster apps.
Alright, now let's quickly verify.
I'll copy a specific path.
Let's do a LS-L.
And this apps has this specific app of Linux.
So now what we have to do,
we have to push this configuration bundle
to all of the search head cluster members.
Now, before we push it,
let's quickly log into one of the members.
So currently I'm logged in, and at this stage
you'll see you do not really have any new app
that is available over here.
As soon as we push the app from the Deploy,
it will be available to all of the members.
So in order to push the configuration bundle from Deploy,
the command is very simple.
It is Splunk, apply the search head cluster bundle
and you can provide the IP address
of one of the search head members.
So let's copy the IP address of one of the members
and let's replace it toward here, I'll copy this command.
And from the Deploy machine, very important
you will have to do a configuration bundle push
from your Deploy machine itself.
Let's go ahead and push it over here.
It is basically giving you the warning
that there might be a rolling restart
of cluster members that might be required.
So we are fine with that, I'll do a yes.
Let's quickly provide the authentication here.
Perfect, now it states that a bundle
has been successfully pushed to all of the cluster members.
So in one of the cluster members over here,
let's quickly refresh the page.
And you should see you have a Splunk app for Unix
that is available over here.
Great, so I hope at a high level overview
you understood the role of Deploy
in the overall search head clustering based architecture.

--- Document - Pushing Bundle Setup ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Integration - Search Head Cluster to Indexer Cluster ---

-: Hi everyone, and welcome back.
Now that we have our entire search head
clustering based architecture
that we have implemented as well as understood,
the next important part is to connect it
with the indexer peer so that the data can be searched
directly from the search head cluster itself.
Now at this stage, let's quickly revise
our indexer architecture over here.
So currently I'm logged into the master indexer server.
So if you'll notice, we had created a M I D X machine.
So I'm logged in over here.
And let's quickly go to the indexer clustering
and within here you have two peers.
First one is the IDX zero one and the IDX zero two.
There are also certain indexes, and as of now
the M I D X zero one is acting as the search head over here.
And we already know
that this is something that you should avoid.
And
since we already have a dedicated search head based setup
we'll be using them as the primary search head.
So in the M I D X machine
if we'll quickly go to the search end reporting app
let's go to the data summary.
So at this stage we have data from multiple machines
so we are including 4 0 1, 0 2.
And you see there are multiple sources
and source heads that are available.
So what we want is that our search head cluster
members should also be able to see all of their data
and also perform search operations on top of them.
So that is the aim of today's video.
Now, in order to connect the search head to the indexer
the command is very simple.
All you'll have to do is you'll have to
do a Splunk edit cluster config.
The mode is search head, and then you'll have to
specify the IP address of the master indexer.
Now, do note that there can be 10, 20, 30, 40 number
of indexers as part of the cluster.
However, you do not really need to know the IP address
of each of the indexer peers.
All you'll have to do is you'll have to get the IP address
of the master indexer, primarily
because Master Indexer knows what are the active set
of indexer peers that are available.
So all you'll have to do is you have to
connect your search head cluster members
to that of the master indexer,
and then the entire setup would be fruitful.
So let's do one thing.
Let's copy the IP address of the M I D X machine
and within here we'll go ahead and paste it.
And the secret is password.
This is something that we had set same
for master indexer as well
as the search head cluster base setup.
So I'll copy this up.
Now at this stage before we run this command
you should see that the search head, there is only
one search head that is available.
So let's log to one of the search head members over here
and from the O P T Splunk bin
let's go ahead and run this specific command,
Alright
so it basically states restart is required.
So let's restart.
Great. So now from the master indexer, if you'll go to
search head, you should see
that we have a new search head called Splunk S zero one.
And in a similar way, let's also go ahead and run
this command
in the Splunk, as said, zero two machine as well.
So within the search head zero two
let's quickly go to OP PTs Splunk bin.
Let's copy this command over here.
Let's quickly authenticate
and let's quickly restart this Splunk instance.
Great.
So now going to the master index.
All, you should see that we have SS zero two as well
as SS zero one that is available in these searches.
Now let's quickly open up one of the search head members.
So this is the SS zero two.
In order for the entire testing to complete
we should be able to see the data from over here.
So if you'll go to the data summary, here
you should see that all of the data from 4 0 1, 2, 3
all of the sources and all of the source types are available
in the searcher and in your enterprise.
All you'll have to do, anyone who wants to source the data
from your Splunk instance, you'll go ahead
and add the users at a search head level,
you'll give them access to the search head
and from here they can go ahead and search the data as well
as create alerts and other things.
Great. So I hope with this you understood the entire setup
of search at clustering, along with its integration
with the indexer cluster based architecture.
And with this will conclude today's video.

--- SH to IDX  Cluster Document ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Using Btool for Troublshooting ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we will be discussing
about the BTool utility.
Now the BTool utility is generally used during the time
of troubleshooting, whenever something is not working
or there are some kind of configuration issues.
So let's understand more about what BTool is.
Now, since we already know
that Splunk Enterprise configuration file system
it supports many overlapping configuration files
which can be present in multiple locations.
Now this can be understood
with one of the images that we had seen during
the configuration precedence video
where you can have same configuration,
like you have server name as king.
In local, you have server name as in the app
and you have server name as default in default directory.
So we know that the local directory will always
have a higher precedence
than the app and the default directory.
So if you want to see that a specific configuration,
say, somehow Splunk is taking up
server name is equal to app, you want to see
from which configuration file this settings
is being picked up from, or which is the configuration
which a Splunk has picked up from.
All of those data will be queried
from the utility called as BTool.
So BTool is basically a command line tool that allows us
to troubleshoot configuration file issues,
to see what values are being pulled up
by the Splunk Enterprise.
So what BTool does is it can allow you
to show the merged settings of all the configuration files.
So let's understand this with the practical example.
So I'm logged into my Splunk system right now.
So let's go to OPT, Splunk, etc system local.
Now if I do a LS, I have inputs dot conf.
So let's do a VI and here you see the host is
equal to Splunk hyphen master.
So now if you quickly come out of this
and let's look into how BTool loads.
So you do a OPT, Splunk bin Splunk, you do a CMD,
you do a BTool, and if you just press enter,
it will basically give you certain options
which we can use with BTool.
So we are more interested to see the configuration
which is there in input.
So this inputs dot conf can be present
in the default directory.
It can be present within the local, it can be present
within the app directory.
So you quickly want to see which of the configurations
which are present within the inputs are being
taken by Splunk depending upon the configuration precedence.
So now this part remains the same, Splunk CMDB tool.
Then you have to specify inputs.
So you can, you need to specify the name
of the file without the dot conf.
So it can be inputs, it can be server dot conf,
but you cannot specify server dot conf,
you just specify server.
So similar, we are just interested in inputs
and use a list.
So what it will give you,
it'll merge all the settings of inputs dot conf
which is present in system local,
which is present in system default,
which is present in app local,
and which is present in app default.
So it will merge all of those settings
and it will give you a clear picture
on what is the final configuration setting,
which is going to the Splunk.
So this is all the merged configuration setting
which is coming over here.
Now if you are interested in, let's say that
let's quickly do LS, let's modify
or let's see server dot conf here.
So within server dot con we have a server name here as A037.
So let's go out, let's run the same BTool command
and currently there will be a lot of configuration settings.
So we can do a grip on server name, nothing has come up.
So what you can do is you can do a grip on I on server name.
And currently you see nothing has come up here.
So let's go to server dot conf
and currently you see the server name is still present.
So why is it not coming?
So the reason why it's not coming is
because we have done a CMD BTool on inputs.
So when you do a inputs
it will merge all the configuration files depending
upon the precedence only for the inputs dot conf related.
So in case we are looking for server dot conf here,
you need to specify server here.
So let's try it out once again.
Let's put a server and this time you see
our server name has come up.
In case you decide to remove a grip,
you will see that the BTool has merged
all the configuration for you.
It really becomes much more simpler,
otherwise you will have to open up the defaults.
You see what configuration is there in default.
Again, you open it local, you go to apps,
you go to the apps, default apps locally,
it really becomes tedious.
Now one important parameter
that you can path is the debug option.
So let's take the option of inputs.
We'll do a check and this time when you do a list,
so generally when you do a list,
you will see that these are the configurations
but you will not come to know from which file
this specific configuration has been picked by Splunk.
So there can be various files which can be present
throughout the file system.
So in case you want to also see from which file
a specific configuration directive has been picked,
you can make use of the debug directive.
So you can specify hyphen, hyphen, debug
and now you see it tells you from which file
this specific configuration has been picked up from.
And this really helps a lot specifically during
the troubleshooting aspect when you are not able to find
from which file specific configuration has been picked into.
So this is one of the use cases where BTool really helps.
One of the other options of BTool where it really helps
is the configuration checks.
So let's open inputs and let's specify a certain directive
which is not supported by inputs dot conf.
I'll say DESD is equal to DSD.
So we know that there is no directive of the DESD supported
by Splunks in inputs dot conf configuration file.
So, let's go ahead and save this.
And you want to verify whether the configuration
that you have put is correct or not,
you can make use of BTool here itself.
So you can do OPT Splunk bin Splunk Btool
and you can do a check.
So now when you do a check, it says
that there is an invalid key in the stanza default
in OPT Splunk etc system local inputs dot conf.
And it is also basically showing
in which line number it exists
and what is the value, which is the test.
So from now we can quickly know that alright
there is something wrong
within the inputs dot conf, just delete it
and when you do a Btool check again,
you see everything is working fine.
Now this really helps
because if you do not have a right configuration,
the Splunk might fail or many times
it just refuses to start up.
So during that cases you can make use of this command,
it'll help you check if there are any invalid key stanzas
which are present within the configuration file.
So that's about it for the BTool.
I hope this video has been informative for you.
Again, this is a short video
but the Btool utility will really help you
during your troubleshooting times.
So with this will conclude this video
and I look forward to seeing the next video.

--- Overview of Data Models ---

-: Hey everyone, and welcome back.
In today's video, we'll have a high-level overview
about the data model functionality in Splunk.
Now, before we go ahead and understand data model,
let's look into one of the basic problems
that you'll typically see in organization
which are using Splunk.
Now, it might happen that certain data
that you have indexed in Splunk,
it would contain certain critical business indicators.
However, many times what happens is that data
which contains those critical business indicators
is multilayer, and it is complicated.
So it has multiple layers and it is very complicated
to read and to understand directly.
Now, the users who wants to see these business indicators
from this complicated dataset are typically less technical,
they are not master of the SPL command.
So now what happens is that data structure is complicated.
The users who wants to get some critical business indicators
from that data are less technical in Splunk.
So they'll not be able to write those complex queries.
And you don't want to be point of contact for everything
they might want to do from that data.
So what you basically do is you make use of data models.
So one of the simple example
is that if you look into this search query,
it is quite long.
And this in fact is a short search query.
I have seen search queries which are like double the size
of the search query which is written over here.
And you'll not expect some normal Splunk user
to write such a complex query, right?
And basically, these queries might fetch
the required details from some complicated data structure,
but this queries are something which a normal person
or normal user will not write.
So what you basically do is you make use of data model
to provide some meaningful information
from the underlying data.
So let's say this is a data model over here
called as sourcetype, and there are three subsets of it.
One is success, you have failure, and you have warning.
So it becomes much more simpler for anyone
who wants to make some information from this dataset.
He can just click on the success model
and he'll know that it will only contain information
or relevant information which are required
for the success related datasets.
Same for failure, and same for warning.
Now, one simple example can be understood here
where you have a customer and you have divided
into three subsets.
One is order history, second is web history,
third is problem tickets.
So when you click on problem ticket datasets,
you'll find all the data which contains
the problematic tickets.
When you look into the order history,
you'll get all the data which contains the order history.
So this is one of the ways
in which the data model can be built.
So let's understand on how this might look
in a practical manner in form of screenshots.
So this is a Vulnerability data model.
Now, if you see this data model,
it is divided into three subsets.
One is high or critical vulnerability.
Second is medium vulnerability.
And third is low or informational vulnerability.
Now as a end user, let's say I am little technical
in terms of Splunk, I do not know much about Splunk.
But from this information, I can say,
"Okay, if I want to see critical level vulnerabilities,
I can click over here."
And basically what it'll do
is it'll take me to a new Pivoting page.
Basically, if you do a pivot,
we'll be looking this into the upcoming video,
it will take me to a new page,
and it'll show the count of higher/critical vulnerabilities.
Here it says that total amount
of higher critical vulnerabilities is 4904.
And basically on the left hand side,
if you just click on here,
it'll create the dashboards for you,
you don't really have to write the SPL commands.
You just click here,
and the dashboards will be built automatically for you.
So in the next slide,
you see the dashboards are automatically built
that these are the amount of vulnerabilities.
Like from October 20 to 29,
there were good amount of vulnerabilities
with a peak of close to 1600 vulnerabilities
of class higher/critical which were present.
So for a end user who is less technical,
without writing any SPL commands,
without writing any query
to find higher critical vulnerabilities,
just by point and click,
he'll be able to retrieve all the relevant data
which is required for his use case to happen.
And this is one of the functions of why data model
is generally used in a lot of organizations.
So that's about it for this video.
In the next video, we'll look into how we can build
our own data model.

--- Creating Data Model - Practical ---

-: Hello and welcome back.
Now, in the earlier video we were discussing
about the basics of data model.
We also look into screenshots
on how exactly data model might look like.
Now, in fact,
I was planning to give you an implementations demo
about how we can create a data model
in the previous video instead,
but I guess you might have noticed
that someone was cooking food
and the whistle sound was coming,
so I had to pause the video to minimize the sound.
So what we did, we splitted the video
and in today's video we actually implement the data model
and we look into what are the steps which are involved.
So in order to do that
we'll go to Splunk Enterprise and I'll go to settings.
And within settings there is a data model.
So now we can click on new data model and this will ask us
for the name of data model, let's put the name
as authentication and the app, we can put it as search
and reporting and we can go it and we can do a create.
Perfect. So now we have the data model ready.
Now the second thing that we need to do is we
need to have the actual data because without
data we cannot really have a a meaningful data model.
So if you look here
we had a data model of vulnerability and there
were also a lot of graphs which were coming.
That means that data was there behind the scenes.
So what we'll do is let's add some data to us.
For instance, I'll go to settings, I'll click on add data
We'll upload, I'll select the file and basically
I'll be selecting the secure file here, I'll click on open.
So secure is something that I'm sure you might
already have by now.
And the source type, we need to put it as Linux secure.
Alright, and I do remember I also have the Splunk
addon for Unix and Linux.
So it will do all the field extractions for us.
Now index, I'll be putting it
in a index call as authentication.
So you can give any name to your index.
This is the index name that I'll give.
I'll click on save, I'll do a review and I'll do a submit.
So it seems that electricity is also gone now.
Great, great time to make videos anyways.
Kidding. So now we can do a start searching.
It's good to see
that we are running Splunk on the docker containers.
Otherwise without internet our video had to be paused.
So anyways, so coming back to the topic now we have logs
which are the authentication logs
from Linux in this specific index.
Great. So now once we have other data model created
we need to do an add dataset here.
Now within add dataset you have
route event and route search.
So route search is typically used when you need to
to use some complex queries, which includes like stats
which include pipes and transactions.
However, for us we'll have a very simple one.
So we'll do a root event here and within here
I'll say Linux and the constraints would be index is equal
to authentication or we can directly copy it
from the search query.
Here I'll say index is equal
to authentication and I'll do a preview.
It should basically show all the locks which are part
of the authentication index.
I'll do it, I'll go ahead and I'll do a save.
Perfect. So once you have this created
you would see that the only default fields have come here
but within this specific index there are a lot
of fields which are available.
So within add fields you can all
you can do a auto extract field where you can manually
specify which field you want to add for this data model
depending upon what kind of use case you intend to build.
If you see within the vulnerability data model
the the use case was to find higher critical vulnerability
media vulnerability, lower informational vulnerability.
So it might mean
that they might not require a hundred percent
of the field extractions.
So it really depends upon the use cases here.
So for our use case
I'll select all the fields and I'll do a save.
Perfect. So now all the field extractions are now
appearing over here.
The next thing that we want to do is we want to
start building the use case.
So in order to do that, I'll do add dataset
I'll do a chide here and the dataset, I'll say bad vectors.
Now in order to find bad vectors are you typically
might have to type failed
and it will show you failed password
for invalid user failed password for rule.
So the failed keyboard seems to be good here.
So I'll just put the failed keyboard here.
This is basically a SPL command that you can put.
I'll do a preview and it'll give me all the failed
whichever events it has this failed keyboard
I'll go it and I'll do a save.
Perfect. So now we have the bad vector.
Let's add one more.
I'll say success vector.
And here you typically might want something
like session open.
Session open typically happens when someone has
successfully logged in.
So we'll just copy this up
and we'll put it within the additional constraints.
Let's do a quick preview
and it is showing us all the session open related events.
Perfect. So now you can do a saving
and similarly we'll add one more data set.
This time we'll say privilege escalation.
Privilege escalation is like someone, when someone logs
in as a user and he log, he does a pseudo towards the route.
So you can just type pseudo here and you see it.
You can just take bin SU is one of the commands
which is generally used for privilege escalation.
I can just put this here.
I do a preview and now you see it'll show me
all the events where the SU was used.
You can click on save.
Perfect.
So now you have a three use cases which are built here.
Now let's click on the first use case
which is the bad vector, and right click
on pivot and do a open link in new tab.
So we'll click on bad vector here.
So now you see it is showing total
of 8 1 5 4 bad vector events.
Now if you typically click on some
of the prebuilt dashboards, you can actually see by time
like bad vectors, you know they are a failed password
for either valid user or invalid user.
You can quickly determine that.
All right, on October 20, this was the count
there was a peak here
on October 24 on number of counts of bad vectors.
So it really becomes simpler
for anyone who is viewing your data
and those who do not want to really write SPL commands
those who do not understand SPL commands,
they can just click with the the pre-built dashboards
which are available
over here
and they'll be able to get them meaningful information
from this pre-built dashboards.
Now one more thing that you can do is you
can add data over here.
You do not need to edit anything.
You can click on split rows and I want to see
from which IP addresses the the bad vectors where
originating from.
So I can click on split rows
we'll go a bit down, we'll do us SRC, I'll do add table.
And now you see it is giving me the list of IP addresses
from which the bad vectors have been coming from.
So now I want to see like which is the IP address which had
tried to do a failed password login most of the times.
So you can just click
on pacha two here and now from here you can see, alright
this seems to be quite good here.
The IP address 87, 1 94 2 1 6, 1 51.
The count of bad vector is 218
and count of bad vector in percentage is 4.7 point 36.
So in this way you'll be able to identify
in much more faster manner
without really writing any SPL commands here.
So this is one of the beauties of our data model.
Now a few more important part that I wanted to show you.
Again, this is one of the functionalities of data model.
Let's look into one more aspect.
Let's say you want to also see the countries
from which the IP addresses are associated with.
So if you have gone through the course
you know the IP location command allows us to do that.
But as a NOIs user who is just doing a point
and click and he wants to see, so
in such cases what you can do is you can add the option
of geo IP.
So in order to do that, you know you need to go
to the root data set and you need to go a bit down
identify which field contains the IP address here.
So if you see the SRC field
let's look into the raw events here.
So SRC field, basically let's remove this
let's remove the pseudo great.
So the SRC field basically contains the IP addresses
or the associated host IPs.
So this SRC field is something which is important for us
or even SRC underscore IP is also meaningful information.
So what you can do is this SRC IP seems to
be more meaningful.
Now this is based on string.
Now if you go a bit up
when you do a add field and you can do a Geo IP
it says that there are no IPV four fields available
in the data set and hence the
we cannot really have a geo lookup
So let's do a cancel here and let's add a field
Call this
Or before we do that, we need to change.
So this SRC IP, where did it go?
Yeah, so this SRC IP here
we need to edit it from string to IPV four.
So I do a edit and the type here, I do a string
I'll change it to IPV four, I'll do a save.
Perfect. So now you do that.
After doing that, you can do add field, you can do a geo IP
and this time it asks you
whether what other things that you need.
Longitude, latitude, city, region, country.
I'm happy with country for the time being
because other user will just need to, they just need to know
from which country the failed authentication are coming
from. So I'll do a save, perfect.
So once you do a save, let's go to the bad vector.
Let's do a favorite,
Once again, I'll do a bad vector here.
So now it is giving me the total count of bad vector.
Now let's add a row.
I'll say the source IP, let's say a SRC IP
Here I'll do an add to table.
And along with that it is showing me
like other IP address and counter bad vectors here.
So I want to add one more field.
This time I want to add SRC underscore country.
So this is something that we had added.
I'll do add to table
and obviously I can easily see this IP belongs to Italy
this IP belongs to United States.
These are the IP address which belongs
to Republic of Korea and so on.
So I can just do a point and click and I
I get built in visualization, built in tables
and various others from this dashboard that we have
which is generated from the data model.
So this is the one of the important functions of data model.
And last but not the least
you can even save this as a report or dashboard panel.
So coming back to the data model, one important
part that you can do is you can download this data model.
So you can download this data model
and you can upload the data model
to a different Splunk instance.
And there also you'll have the exact things that you
have configured away in the newest Splunk instance
where you are uploading the data model.
Now in, if you go back to all data models
you'll have your authentication data model
which is available over here.
So that's it about the practical aspect of data model.
I hope this video has been informative for you
and I look forward to see you in the next video.

--- Splunk Support Programs ---

-: Hey everyone and welcome back.
In today's video we'll be discussing
about these Splunk official support programs.
Now, typically Splunk provides
official support for customers.
So in case your Splunk instance is not working as expected
you can officially contact them
through a support portal and their team will help you.
Now, their support programs are primarily divided
into following categories.
One is community, second is base, third is standard
and fourth is premium.
So let's look into all of them
and understand the difference.
So this is the Splunk support programs page
and if you go a bit down
you'll see that there are four categories
community, base, standard, and premium.
Now for the base and for the community
you do not really have the support.
It's the community support that you can get from the base.
You can provide your tickets
but you will not really have any response time targets.
So the only thing
if you are an enterprise that you should be looking for
is either the standard one or the premium one.
So typically when you go ahead and buy Splunk Enterprise
the standard support plan will be included
in the pricing that you will be paying for.
However, premium support is available.
So either you can subscribe it, it will be expensive
but this is something that you can subscribe for.
Premium support does comes with the direct access
to the advance support team in case required.
Now, from what I have observed from standard support
their support is good, I would not say the best,
but it is good.
So I have never tried the premium support as far
as the organizations that I have worked is concerned.
But many times what happens
in standard support is that they go with the work around.
They'll not give you the exact pinpoint RC
on why the issue had caused.
They'll just say, okay, this is the way you can fix this
but they'll never tell you on why it occurred
at the first place.
So that is one thing as a personal experience
that I have seen it to be missing in standard support.
Maybe for Splunk premium support.
The advanced supporting might be able to tell you that
but again, this is something which is expensive.
So one important part to remember over here
is that their support is divided into priorities.
Now these priorities depend upon how urgent it is
or what is the impact of the issues
making to your Splunk installations.
So here the priority one, basically they already says
that production installation of Splunk software
is completely inaccessible.
So for the base, you have the response time
of one business day over here, standard is two hours,
premium is 30 minutes.
So if you see the more higher you go
the response time becomes much more lower.
Now, generally I have seen instances where
we had to raise p1
because the Splunk instance went down.
Now if you assume that Splunk is a hundred percent stable
it is not, there will be unexpected changes.
Typically, when you go towards the latest version
it's better to use the stable version.
And in case you go to the latest version
you will find some unexpected issues there.
So whenever you raise a p1 ticket,
you'll immediately like within five or 10 minutes
you'll typically get a call from the Splunk team asking you
on what exactly the issues all about.
And you'll get quite fast response.
As far as a p1 ticket is concerned,
for p2, p2 is something where
some of the important features are inaccessible
but your Splunk enterprise is still up and running.
So one example is, let's say you have a source head cluster
among which the source head cluster went down
and it's not coming up at all.
However, there are two other members of the cluster
are still up and running.
So those type of tickets, you can put it for p2
p3 tickets are typically reserved
for any add-ons or any apps
or any simple configuration issue
that you might have that you're not able to fix
even after reading the documentation.
So those comes into p3
and p4 are something where enhancement requests
or maybe generic questions that you might have.
So these are the four priority levels that Splunk has.
Now, in order to access the support portal,
depending upon whether you have access or not,
you can go to support
definitely you'll have to log in
and you'll have to go to the support portal.
So this is how the support portal really looks like.
Now if you see, you can do a submit a new case
you can click the button here and while submitting a case
it is saying that these are the four priorities
and depending upon where your issue lies,
it's better to assign appropriate priority.
Now if you have a issue with add-on or app
and you put it to priority two,
then they'll move it down saying
that this is not a priority two issue.
So that is one important part to remember.
If you go a bit down, you have a various options over here.
One is since Splunk installation list,
then you have to select the priority.
So this is priority 1, 2, 3, and 4.
So these are the four priorities which are available.
This is a subject that you need to put.
Now what product are you having trouble with?
So you might have Splunk Enterprise Security
you might have the UBA or even Phantom,
which is one of the latest acquisition from Splunk.
So depending upon which product you are having issue with
you can select, let me select Splunk Enterprise here.
Then you'll need to select the product version
let's select 7.2.0.
Now the next part is important.
You need to select the category
where you are having issues with
whether you are having with authentication
the distributed deployment, the licensing, installation
performance and stability, et cetera.
So let's say distributed deployment feature.
Then you need to select the exact component app
whether you're having with the distributed licensing
or DMC or distributed search
or forwarder management or search head clustering.
So if you have issue with search head clustering
you can just say,
alright, I'll select search head clustering here
and I'll select the priority as two.
Because my search head cluster has three members
and one has gone down.
Two are still up and running
so I cannot put it as priority one.
I'll put it as priority one, priority two, I mean
you need to select your operating system.
Docker support is also recently included.
It was not available earlier, so I'll say Docker maybe.
And then you need to select the deployment type
which can be Splunk Cloud or Splunk Compromise.
You can select whichever you have.
The problem description, steps to reproduce.
You can put your attachment over here
in case you want to show some screenshot
or you want to upload a diag.
You can upload it over here and you can submit the case.
Once the case is submitted.
Again, you'll have to look into the priority here
you'll have to look into the priority here
and then you will get appropriate response time.
So if it is a priority one
you might get a call in 10 minutes.
If it is a priority too
then it might take certain amount of time.
You see it says for standard support
the response time is one business days.
Update time is weekly and turnaround
workaround time is one business week.
So this is how, depending upon what support plans
that your organization has.
So that's about it for these plan support programs.
I hope this video has been informative
for you and thanks for watching.
