

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction ---

Hi everyone, This is Christopher Perrin here and thank you for joining my class building cloud infrastructure
with TerraForm.
This course came together for me after working on several large scale cloud transformation projects.
Many of the legacy hosting operating models for enterprise apps that I have supported over the last
decade or so have always relied on hand, built and well cared for infrastructure.
The nature of how infrastructure was built and cared for like pets and how traditional enterprise software
was deployed killed our agility.
It kills your operating margins because it takes so long to build and maintain this stuff.
Hand-built environments always last around longer than they should.
They also don't get patched as often.
All because it takes too long to rebuild an environment because frankly, it is expensive to rebuild
these things.
So too much time is spent building, caring and feeding for these traditional environments.
We look to the cloud as a panacea for making everything better, faster and cheaper.
I should be able to create infrastructure and deploy software in a fraction of the time at a fraction
of the cost.
So in my cloud transformation journey, we had to come to terms with the whole cattle versus pets mentality.
And if you haven't heard of this analogy before, consider the relationship that you have with a pet,
say a dog or a cat, and compare that with cattle like a cow or a pig or a goat.
Most of us with pets consider them to be part of our family.
Whereas cattle.
Well, cattle have a certain serve, a certain functional purpose.
So when it comes to the cloud, taking a cattle approach with your infrastructure will enable you to
be more agile, more fault, tolerant and resilient.
Because we don't care if we have to destroy that cattle.
We don't care if we have to tear down infrastructure and rebuild it.
If we don't have to care and feed for it like a pet, we can be a lot more agile infrastructure as code.
Using TerraForm is one excellent, excellent tool for enabling you to treat your infrastructure as cattle.
TerraForm allows you to declare your infrastructure in code, managing your infrastructure as code,
and collaborate as a team on infrastructure since it lives as code.
TerraForm Code managed in a source control system serves as a source of truth for your infrastructure.
When your environments are modeled in code, it is very easy to spin up new or additional environments,
whether they are for development, production or disaster recovery.
So let me say this.
TerraForm isn't going to solve all your problems.
TerraForm is not a configuration management tool like puppet or chef.
These tools can and should be used in conjunction with TerraForm to provide an end to end fully automated
solution for creating infrastructure and for deploying your applications.
So with the introductions out of the way, thank you.
And I hope you find this course educational.
So what are you going to learn in this course?
Well, I'm going to teach you all about TerraForm Fundamentals for creating infrastructure.
We'll start with understanding the General TerraForm syntax.
What are configurations and resources and other TerraForm specific terminology?
Then we'll go over TerraForm variables, both input and output and how to use variables using interpolations
and the built in functions that come with TerraForm.
Next I will go over TerraForm Provisioners, which are used to bootstrap resources after they've been
created by TerraForm.
And then we'll touch on TerraForm modules and how to collaborate as a team on TerraForm Code using remote
state and source control.
And of course there are labs that go along with every topic discussed in this course.
We'll be working closely with Amazon AWS and in some instances we may touch on other cloud providers
like Google Cloud Platform as well.
So who should take this course?
Well, I've written this course for developers, for folks that are in QA and test and for administrators.
This course really is for that dev ops role.
So anyone that plays in that role, whether they're at the on the left as a developer or on the right
as an administrator or somewhere in between like a test person, you can find some value.
You will find some value in taking this course.
So let me go over what you should already know.
I'm going to make some assumptions here that.
You have a basic understanding of cloud infrastructure, compute storage and networking.
So for this course you do not need to be an expert.
This course is not specific to AWS, but we use AWS in our lab guide since it is the most ubiquitous
cloud service provider out there today and it's a great opportunity to learn how to use TerraForm.
TerraForm is service provider agnostic, so you can use Google Cloud, you can use Azure, Oracle,
you know, any of the other cloud service providers out there.
What would be helpful is that you have a basic understanding of cloud computing concepts at a high level.
In this course, we're going to be creating virtual networks, compute instances and object storage
buckets, to name a few.
So a basic understanding of networking will also help, but it's not required.
But being my basic network understanding is understanding the difference between a public and a private
IP address, for instance, or a public and a private subnet.
The other assumption I make here is that the student is very comfortable working with the command line
and whatever operating system you are using.
So you know how to spawn multiple command windows or terminals, you know how to copy and paste text,
which is, you know, kind of a basic, basic thing to know how to launch processes from the command
line, how to set environment variables and how to use a text editor.
So the bar here is pretty low when it comes to to basic computer knowledge requirements in this particular
case, some technical requirements.
So fortunately, all you really need for this course is a computer with a modern operating system and
an internet connection.
TerraForm is a is supported on Linux OS ten and Windows just fine.
It is a single binary command line tool.
So there are no dependent libraries.
You have to worry about it.
You just download it and you're off to the races and you just and you need a text editor as well for
authoring the TerraForm files we're going to create.
And I have optional listed here.
This is going to be really hard to not satisfy.
This particular requirement is an AWS account to use with the labs and I will walk through how to go
about requesting or getting a free tier AWS account if you don't know how to do that.

--- Course DISCLAIMER ---

I'm working with any of the cloud service providers.
You will be creating infrastructure in Amazon and possibly other cloud providers in this course.
And so there may be charges associated with creating those resources.
Most cloud providers offer a free trial account.
I highly recommend signing up for a free trial account with Amazon and this will give you 12 months
free of services with certain limitations.
So with Amazon, I believe you get 750 compute hours.
Of a certain shape, like a T2 micro type shape.
Which is perfectly good for this lab guide.
The free trial account is is more than sufficient to run any of the labs in this course.
If you do not have access to a free trial account in Amazon or if your free trial has expired through
Amazon and you choose to proceed with the labs executing the labs in this course, then you will be
responsible for any charges from that cloud provider.
So as a best practice, we will destroy any of the resources that we create at the end of every lab.
This will minimize any potential charges if you do not have a free trial account.
So typically, charges are only incurred when resources are in use.
So when we write our terraform and we want to spin up compute resources, you only get charged for how
that how long that compute resource is up and running.
So as a best practice, like I mentioned, when we run through a lab and we spin up resources, we're
going to tear them down at the end of that lab almost immediately.
So they're not long lived resources.
So your charges incurred should be fairly minimal.
Um, so this slide isn't meant to scare you?
I'm not trying to intimidate anybody with this slide, but I want you, the student, to know that if
you proceed with the labs in this course, that the student is responsible for those charges incurred.


=== Getting Started with Terraform ===


--- What is Terraform ---

Okay, So with that nasty bit out of the way, let's get to an introduction to TerraForm.
So what is TerraForm?
TerraForm is a tool developed by the Hashicorp Corporation that is used to build and manage infrastructure
as code.
The code that you write is declarative, meaning you declare what the desired state of the resource
should be and TerraForm takes care of the rest.
It takes care of moving from one state to another state.
TerraForm configurations are written in a syntax known as the Hashicorp configuration language.
Json is also supported, but this is more for machine generated TerraForm code.
TerraForm supports numerous service providers like Azure, Amazon, which I've already mentioned, and
Google Cloud platform, and there is a long list of other supported service providers on Hashicorp's
website.
You can write a single TerraForm configuration to support different service providers.
That's the coolest thing about TerraForm.
There is syntax that is specific to certain cloud service providers, but all in all, TerraForm is
a platform agnostic tool, unlike, say, cloud formation with AWS, which only works with AWS.
TerraForm can be used to build environments for a single application, or it can be used to build out
an entire virtual data center.
TerraForm can also be used to provision pass and SaaS services as well.
It just depends on the service provider or the SaaS provider and whether or not they support a TerraForm
interface.
But there's a lot you can do with TerraForm.
So there are many use cases for TerraForm and for infrastructure as code in general.
The first I will cover is automating infrastructure for N-tier applications, such as a traditional
three tier setup where you may have a web tier or a DMZ, a business tier where all the business logic
sits in a data tier beneath that where your persistent data stores live.
So these architectures tend to be large and complex.
Requiring advanced networking skills to configure.
TerraForm can be used to model such architectures rather easily.
Other use cases for infrastructure as code is support for disposable environments such as a demo environment
or a QA and test environment.
Imagine being able to spin up a production like environment for a customer demo in a matter of minutes
using TerraForm and then destroying it when you're done.
The last use case here is support for heterogeneous cloud deployments.
Perhaps you have a requirement to support a hybrid cloud deployment model where some of your services
are hosted in AWS and some of your services are hosted in Google or Azure.
TerraForm allows you to manage infrastructure for both environments from a single code code base.
This harkens back to what I said about TerraForm being platform agnostic.
You can support multiple cloud providers from a single code base.
So why infrastructure as code?
If the last slide wasn't compelling enough, let's talk about why this is a good thing.
The first bullet here should read reduce your human operational expense or OpEx costs instead of handcrafting
and manually deploying VMs and configuring networks and storage devices and network ACLs, it can all
be done by writing code.
Code can be tested, it can be scanned, it can be peer reviewed, and it can be placed under source
control.
This leads to better quality and repeatable processes for deploying infrastructure.
And I'll say it again, overall cost associated with deploying and managing infrastructure is reduced
when you take a.
Cattle versus pets approach to infrastructure.
Pets cost a lot more in the long run to maintain.
I know my dog just had surgery and it was really expensive.
Oh, one more thing I want to add that's not on this list that needs to be here is that when you can
automate your deployment using TerraForm and modeling your infrastructure as code, not only are you
reducing the overall human cost of deploy, but you're significantly increasing your agility.
The time to deploy is significantly reduced when you're using infrastructure as code compared with using
humans to deploy that same infrastructure.


=== Terraform Variables and Interpolations ===


--- Course Lab Guide ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Resource Dependencies ===


--- Getting Started with Terraform ---

In this lecture, I'm going to talk about building infrastructure using TerraForm here.
We're going to look at terminology, syntax and actual examples for creating infrastructure.
So let's talk about some concepts really quick before we start.
You'll hear me use words like TerraForm configuration provider, TerraForm plan.
Let's level set on some of the terminology first before we go any further.
A TerraForm configuration.
This is what we will be writing in our labs.
This is a code TerraForm configuration is represents a set of resources that we want to create and is
written in SQL, which is the Hashicorp configuration language.
It can also be written in Json.
It's typically not written in Json by humans.
This is usually.
Code that's generated by by a process or some other application for use with TerraForm.
A TerraForm provider.
This represents the cloud service provider we'll be working with.
You configure a TerraForm provider, typically with your access credentials and other required information
in order for TerraForm to connect to that.
CSP is the TerraForm provider that does all the work of managing that infrastructure.
Think of it as a plugin that is specific to that service provider.
The TerraForm Plan.
So TerraForm generates a build execution plan containing all the steps it will take to converge from
one state to the next state or the desired state for a set of infrastructure resources.
And I'll talk about that in a little more detail.
In the state that I'm talking about.
TerraForm maintains the the current state and the desired state in a set of a set of resources in a
state file.
This is a very important file that cannot be corrupted.
If it gets corrupted, then TerraForm has no idea what your current state of your infrastructure is.
The TerraForm State File.
This is a file where TerraForm maintains the current state of a set of resources.
So when we run TerraForm to create infrastructure or to change infrastructure, it maintains the current
state in a flat file.
A provisioner or Provisioners are code programs or scripts that you can use to bootstrap a compute resource
after it's been created by TerraForm.
And so TerraForm has this mechanism that allows you to bootstrap these resources, and they're called
provisioners.
They support both Chef and Puppet out of the box, as well as some other configuration management tools.
And we'll get into that in more detail in just a moment.
So how does TerraForm work at a high level?
TerraForm is fairly simple.
It is a single binary command line tool that executes some TerraForm code that you write.
So you write some TerraForm code to represent a piece of infrastructure you want to create or change,
like a VM or an object storage bucket.
The TerraForm Code, you write, also contains a provider configuration which has all the details required
to talk to the cloud provider.
When you run TerraForm, the provider connects to the cloud provider and creates or configures that
piece of infrastructure.
So there's a typical workflow.
When working with TerraForm, the first step you take is typically to describe your infrastructure using
SQL.
In this example here I am describing an AWS compute instance that I'm calling my example.
This is called a configuration, and then configuration can contain multiple resources.
In this configuration.
I'm also specifying the Ami or Amazon machine image.
To load onto this compute instance as well as the VM shape or size.
With TerraForm, we only describe the desired state.
And then TerraForm handles how best to move from one state to another.
So for instance, let's say what you see on the screen.
I'm creating this, my example compute resource, and it's got an instance type of T2 Micro.
This is an AWS shape, it's part of the free tier.
And I run my TerraForm and I create this compute instance, let's say down the road I want to vertically
scale this compute instance and I want to use a different shape.
All I would need to do is edit my code and change the instance type.
I don't need to worry about how to go from the present state to the new state using the new shape.
TerraForm handles that for us, which is a great segway into the execution plan.
So after you have described your infrastructure, you build an execution plan by running TerraForm plan.
The execution or build plan describes the steps TerraForm will take to get to the desired state.
So here in this slide, you can see a screenshot of a build plan, and TerraForm is going to create
our my example compute instance.
That's what the plus sign in front of the excuse me, the green plus sign in front of the instance line
is noting.
So a plus sign indicates a resource will be created.
A minus sign in front of that resource indicates it will be destroyed.
And then sometimes we'll see a minus plus together.
And that indicates that a resource, if it cannot be modified, then it will be destroyed and recreated.
And a good example of that is going from one compute shape or excuse me, one machine image to a new
machine image.
If I want to load a new OS or a new machine image onto my compute instance.
TerraForm will destroy that compute instance and then rebuild the machine with the new image.
Okay, so the third step in our in our normal workflow is to execute the plan.
Okay.
So this command by running TerraForm apply this command will reconfigure or create or destroy resources
based upon the TerraForm code that we write.
So again, in this example, we executed the plan previously and it's going to create a single compute
instance named my example.


=== Terraform Provisioners ===


--- Coding with Terraform ---

So coding with TerraForm.
So as I mentioned, TerraForm files are written in SQL or Hashicorp configuration language, and we're
going to get into the syntax in just a minute, which is fairly simple.
TerraForm files end in dot WTF.
This is the extension for all TerraForm files.
TerraForm files are organized into directories or folders.
So when we work on a project related groups of resources, we can organize them by directories.
And when we run the TerraForm CLI, so when we run TerraForm Plan or TerraForm Apply or TerraForm Destroy,
which I haven't covered yet.
TerraForm automatically loads all the files ending in TF by default.
And so here is an example of, of this is just a sample directory structure.
We have a top level directory named Learn TerraForm and we have files ending in TF.
We've got one for compute, one for the provider, one for variables.
And the last two files here are very important.
We'll talk about what tf vars and auto TFR file extensions mean later on.
Those are those are reserved and they're special basically.
In short, terraform automatically loads these files as well and they typically contain variable assignments
in them.
And we'll talk about variables in detail in just a moment.
So let's dive into some TerraForm syntax.
As I mentioned, the syntax is called Hql.
And in this example, imagine if you will, this is a single text file and I edited this in Atom.
I use atom mostly for my terraform, among other things.
So the line one comments.
We're going to look very familiar to those who have done any sort of scripting or programming in the
past.
This is a single line comment, starting with a hashtag or a pound sign, whatever you want to call
it, and then multi-line comments are also supported.
They're in the style of C or Java down on line 21.
You can see here that I have a block of code that's been commented out using the slash star, star slash
nomenclature in line six.
We can see we are assigning values using key value.
Key equals value Values can be a string, a number, a boolean, a list or a map.
And we're going to get into the various different data types and how to declare variables and how to
assign values in just a moment.
TerraForm ignores whitespace.
So if you look at line six and any other line where we're assigning a value to something, it doesn't
matter if there's a space between before and after the equal sign or not.
TerraForm doesn't care.
I just do it because it looks nice.
Strings are always in double quotes.
No single quotes.
You can see an example of that in line six, line ten, 11 and 12 and so on.
This slide is really just meant to give you some exposure to TerraForm syntax.


=== Data Sources ===


--- Terraform Syntax ---

So now we're going to dive into some fundamental configuration syntax.
The first configuration I want to show you is the TerraForm provider syntax.
The provider represents the cloud service provider will use to create our infrastructure.
So like I mentioned earlier, think of a TerraForm provider as a plugin plugin support for that service
provider.
So there's there's providers for AWS and Google Azure and a slew of other service providers out there.
Inside the curly braces.
Okay, so we declare a provider using the provider keyword in our TerraForm code, and then we specify
provider type.
Every provider has a reserved keyword, so to speak.
So for Amazon, it's AWS.
For Google, it's GCP.
And then inside the curly braces will be a set of key value pairs that are used to configure the provider.
These are specific and unique to the provider.
So let's look at an example.
Here we have an AWS provider example on the first line we define.
The configuration with the provider keyword, then specify the type or name of the provider.
In this case, it's just AWS.
Inside the curly braces are those key value pairs that are required to configure this provider.
Here I have an access key and a secret key defined.
And then a region.
And the region is where the resources will be created.
Amazon has numerous regions globally and we specify in this case I'm specifying us East one as the default
region for this provider.
The next configuration I want to show you is the one you will use the most.
This resource configuration represents a component of infrastructure that you want to configure, such
as compute instances or object storage buckets or a subnet.
Anything that you create will be of will be a resource.
Okay.
Like I mentioned, it's compute storage networks, whatever.
It's all prefixed with resource.
You can see the syntax here for defining a resource.
Type represents the type of resource you want to create and is specific to the provider you are using.
In the previous example, we created a compute instance of type AWS underscore instance and we'll see
an example in the next slide.
Resource name is an arbitrary name that you provide the TerraForm, so I can name my resources, whatever
I want.
These will be used.
I can use these as references throughout my TerraForm code and inside the curly braces is where you
will specify any required or optional attributes for that resource.
The type of resource will determine what is required and what is optional.
So, for example, an AWS instance will require a different set of parameters than an object storage
bucket.
Will Does that make sense?
So here's an EC2 compute resource example that I want to create.
You can see here that the type is AWS underscore instance and that the name of the resource is my web
browser.
Inside the curly braces, I specify two attributes.
Am I?
An instance type.
These are the only two that are required.
RMI specifies the machine image that I want to load onto this compute instance and the T2 micro is the
shape of that instance.
Most, if not all, of the TerraForm providers and resources are documented on Terraform's website.
If you go to the link shown here, it will take you to a list of all the supported providers.
Select that one that you're interested in, and it will take you to a list of all the resources in data
sources, and I'll talk about data sources later on that the provider supports.
And we're going to walk through this in an upcoming lab.
I would suggest bookmarking the providers page so you have it handy as a reference when you're working
through the labs.
Most of the time you'll just want to know what resources are supported and what attributes are required
for those resources.
So just to show you quickly if I'm going to bring up my browser window.
And if you click on that link, it'll take you.
Here's that list of providers I'm talking about, and you can tell that it's it's quite extensive here.
And if I click on AWS, for instance, because we're going to be working with Amazon Web Services in
the lab.
If I click on this, then this site here contains all the documentation, all the TerraForm documentation
and syntax for the provider.
And there are guides.
There's documentation for all the data sources in here.
And if I scroll all the way down, we're going to find what we're looking for is the AWS instance resource,
which is going to be under EC2 resources.
So here we've got EC2 resources right here.
And then I'm going to look for AWS underscore instance.
This resource represents an EC2 or compute instance in Amazon.
And by clicking on that, it'll give you some example usage on how to use it.
Don't be over overwhelmed here.
Not everything here is required to understand what attributes are required.
Scroll down a bit and under argument reference you will see what arguments or attributes are required
to create an EC2 instance.
And right now the only required one that I can see is the machine image.
And there should also be.
Instance, type is also required.
This is the type of instance, this is the shape of the instance.
How big of a of a VM or a bare metal box do I want?
Okay, so anything, any type of resource that you're interested in, you can come here and there's
a there's a long list of, of resources that are supported on Amazon using TerraForm.
Okay.
So at this point, we have enough information to get started actually creating some real infrastructure.
So thank you for your patience to get through some of that beginning stuff.
To do this, you're going to need an AWS account.
Second will download and install the TerraForm binary, which is a pretty straightforward process.
And then we'll dive in creating our first TerraForm configuration and actually building out some infrastructure.
I mentioned in the beginning part of this course that the student that you, the student, are liable
for any charges resulting in your use of this course and the associated labs.
So charges incurred from a cloud service provider because you're running the labs, that's completely
on you.
However, AWS does offer a free tier, and I would highly recommend that you sign up for this account.
AWS offers 12 months free and a certain number of free computing hours and storage.
If you take care to destroy all of your resources after you create them, then you should never come
close to the to the free tier limits here.
These limits are more than sufficient for running the labs.
If you do not have access to a free tier account, then there will be charges associated with the resources
that you create.
However, these charges should be very minimal as we will be destroying these resources at the end of
every lab.


=== Terraform Modules ===


--- Lab 1.1 - Create an AWS Account ---

Welcome to the first lab getting started with TerraForm.
So, as a reminder, in this lab, you will get familiar with TerraForm by creating a compute instance
in Amazon.
So if you already have an AWS account, then there is no need to create another account.
You can simply follow the steps to create an additional API user with keys for use with this lab.
So the first step if you don't have an AWS account is to click on the link in the lab guide and navigate
to aws.amazon.com slash free.
And here you can sign up for a free AWS account and you can see on this page as.
Of the publication of this course that you get 750 hours of EC2 compute free per month and one gig of
excuse me, five gigabytes of S3 storage capacity.
So between the EC2 compute and the S3 storage capacity, if you can sign up for the free account, then
you should have no additional charges whatsoever as long as you don't exceed these limits.
If you do not have a free account and you have a regular subscription paid account, then you will incur
some charges.
But they are very minimal.
So to create the free account, click on the button.
I'm not going to walk through creating a free account.
I already have one, but click on the button and go through the process of providing information and
you will have a free account provisioned for you.
So once you have the free account or an account log, login to the console.
Okay, I'm going to sign into the console here and I actually have two factor auth set up, so I must
get out my app.
And log in.
So once we have our free account, we need to set up a pair of API keys for accessing AWS.
So when we configure our provider in TerraForm, we have to specify an access key and a secret key so
that TerraForm can connect to Amazon on our behalf to create infrastructure.
To do that, once you've logged into your console, you'll need to navigate.
Two.
We're going to go over here to services.
And then locate.
Identity and access management, which is somewhere.
Right here under security, identity and compliance.
We want to click on Iam for identity and access management and then we want to add a user.
So click on users.
And then click add user.
And we can name the user whatever we want.
Doesn't really matter, but I'm going to specify.
Learn helps if I have focus.
Learn tf.
And we want to check the box for programmatic access.
Do not check the box for management console access.
You can, but it's not required and it presents a security risk.
So do not click that box.
For the purposes of this lab.
So go ahead and click next permissions and then click attach existing policies directly.
So what we're going to do now is set up permissions for this particular user.
Normally I would place the user in a group and manage policies on the group.
But for for this course, I'm just going to create a simple user and attach a policy directly to that
user.
And then what we want to do is just check the box for administrator access.
This is the policy that we're going to assign to this user and this provides full access to AWS services.
So keep that in mind.
This user that we're creating is going to have the ability to do anything and everything through the
API.
Go ahead and click next review.
And then if everything looks correct, go ahead and hit create user.
Okay.
So this is a very important step.
This you'll never be able to get back to this screen.
You'll never be able to see the secret key.
Ever again.
So what you want to do is download these credentials.
These are the credentials that we're going to use to configure our provider in TerraForm.
Okay, So I'm going to save that to my desktop and we're going to save that CSV that that file for later.


=== Terraform State ===


--- Lab 1.2 - Download Terraform ---

Once you have your AWS access and secret key created, the next step is to download TerraForm and set
it up on your system, which is a fairly straightforward task.
So what we're going to do is head over to the downloads page over@terraform.io, find the package for
your particular operating system.
Download that TerraForm is packaged as a zip file.
So really it's a simple matter of saving this file to your to whatever you want to unzip it and unzipping
it.
So I'm going to save it to my home directory on my Linux server.
Okay, let's see here.
It should pop up.
Okay.
It's downloaded.
Now, I mentioned I'm on a Windows machine right now, but I use Linux for development.
So I've got this Linux server sitting out here and in my home directory I've got the zip file that I
just downloaded and if I unzip it.
You can see here that we have a simple.
Oh.
Okay.
Our single TerraForm binary.
What you'll want to do is put this in your path so that you can run TerraForm from anywhere in your
system and you can find it that way.
You don't have to fully qualify the path to the binary.
There are instructions in the lab guide on how to do this for both Linux and Windows.
So right now I have I have TerraForm or at least the directory where TerraForm is located included in
my path.
Whoops.
Sorry about that.
Let's.
Crap mouth.
Okay, so I have TerraForm actually located in my my bin directory under my own username.
So if I go to my bin directory, you'll see I have the terraform executable and to verify everything
works.
Go ahead and run TerraForm Dash V and that will give me the version of TerraForm that's installed on
my system.
And this is the version of TerraForm that I'll be using for the remainder of this course.
Let's go ahead and create a development workspace.
So in the terminal window, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a top level directory for where
we're going to put all of our TerraForm code.
So to do that, I'm going to do I'm going to make dir, I'm going to create my directory called Learn
TF.
And then inside of that, I'm going to make another sub directory that's going to correspond to the
lab that I'm working on.
So I'm going to call this directory lab one.
Now we can go ahead and make our or create our first TerraForm configuration.
I.
So now's the time to fire up your favorite text editor.
My favorite happens to be Atom.
Okay, So with Atom loaded, I'm going to go ahead and open up the lab.
One directory that I just created, I'm going to add it as a project folder.
I'm actually going to add the top level directory as a project folder, so I'm going to select the learn
TF.
That I should see my lab one in here.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and create our first.
Resource configuration.
So I'm going to right click on Lab one, go to new file, and I'm going to create a file that I'm going
to call Lab 1.tf.
The file name must end in TF in order for TerraForm to load it into memory.


=== Extras ===


--- Lab 1.3 - Configure the Terraform AWS Provider ---

So now what we're going to do is configure our AWS provider.
The lad guide has the code that you need to enter to do this, but the syntax is merely provider.
And then we're going to put in quotes AWS, and then the attributes that we need to define for the provider
are the access key.
I'll fill these in in just a second.
And the secret key.
And then the region.
The region is where we are going to create our resources.
Now I have a note in the lab guide that misspelled region.
I have a note in the lab guide that says if you don't want to use us East one, you can use.
There's regions all over the world within the Amazon cloud, so there's a link in the lab guide that
will take you to a list of regions and it has a list of all the codes as well.
So the US East one here is the code for that particular region, and this is in Northern Virginia.
But there are regions in India, obviously Europe, South America and.
So pick a region that works for you.
It does not matter.
It's all going to be using us East one throughout the rest of these labs.
Okay.
And so the access key and the secret key, these are the values that were generated when we created
our learn user in the AWS console.
So if I go back.
I'm going to go back and open up that that CSV file that we downloaded.
Now, your values are going to be different than what I have here.
I've just got to find where I put that file.
So a word of note here.
Keep your access key and most importantly, your secret key private.
These are basically your login credentials for AWS.
And considering that we gave the user that we just generated full admin rights, this is a this is very
important to protect.
So have.
Here's an example of the CSV file that was downloaded.
Okay.
So we can see here, this is what Amazon generated.
Here's the username, the user that we generated.
There's obviously no password.
It did generate an access key and a secret access key.
So this is our access ID, I'm going to copy this value, paste it here.
Then I'm going to go ahead and get my secret.
And place it here.
So by the time you actually go and run through this lab and see this video, this user will be deleted
and these access keys will not be valid.
So, you know, good luck trying to hack my account.
So I'm going to go ahead and save this file.
Now, you're probably saying, wow, this is incredibly insecure, like your your your hard coding,
your access credentials in a TerraForm configuration file.
This file could potentially be publicly available.
It could be up on GitHub.
So, yes, this is a very, very, very, very bad thing to do.
I will show you how to do it right in one of the upcoming labs.
How do we get the access and the secret key out of the file and stored somewhere?
Securely.
Okay, so for now, we're just going to hardcode it in this file for now temporarily, and we're going
to continue on with the lab.
Okay.
So once you have saved the file, make sure you save it.

--- Lab 1.4 - Create your First Resource ---

We're now going to go ahead and define a compute resource in AWS.
So go back to your lab one TF file and after the provider.
We're going to add the resource configuration for our my example EC2 instance, and this is in the lab
guide itself.
So to define a resource, especially a compute resource, we specify a resource keyword, and then the
type is AWS underscore instance, and we have to give it a name.
This is completely arbitrary, so I'm going to call it my example.
It's not very exciting, but that's what we're going to call it today.
There are two required attributes for creating an instance.
The first one is Am I or machine?
The Amazon machine image.
And then the second one is the instance type.
This is the shape of the compute resource that I want to create.
So the shape that we're going to use is part of the free tier and it's AT2 dot micro.
Okay?
This is this shape is available in every region across the cloud and it is included as part of the free
tier.
So if you have the free tier account, you will not be charged for using this particular type.
Ami, this is the OS image that will be loaded onto your compute resource.
This is specific to a particular region.
So what we're specifying here is basically a good that or a Uuid that represents that OS image and it's
unique to a region.
So for this example, I would recommend sticking with the US East one region and using the Ami that's
listed in the lab guide for that region.
We will get to using different Amis across different regions in an upcoming lab.
So the Ami for this example, I'm going to copy it because I don't want to.
Mess it up by fat fingering it.
Okay, so this ID here represents a Red Hat enterprise Linux image that we're going to load onto our
T2 Micro instance.
Okay, save this file.
And going back over to my my lab one directory run TerraForm plan.
So once I run TerraForm plan, we can see what TerraForm wants to do.
So the plus sign means it wants to create a resource.
And we can see here that it's going to create the my example resource, the.
On the left hand side, you're going to see a bunch of attributes for that resource.
And on the right hand side, you're going to see the values of those attributes.
Most of these are computed, so we don't know these values ahead of time.
We don't know what the public IP address is going to be.
Amazon is going to generate one for us when it creates the compute resource.
We don't know what.
The availability zone it's going to be in because we didn't specify one.
So Amazon's going to pick one for us.
Okay.
So we will get access to these computed values later on in the labs.
I'll show you how to how to do that.
But Amazon excuse me, the TerraForm provider for AWS is going to dynamically generate these values
for us.
Okay.
And down at the bottom we see here that we have a summary of the plan.
That's this line right here.
And it says we're going to add one resource zero changes zero to destroy.
So if you're happy with the plan now, we can apply the changes.
TerraForm applies the command we want to run.
And this is what basically executes the terraform and creates the resources.
So go ahead and run, TerraForm, apply.
And it's going to ask you to confirm these actions.
Type in.
Yes.
And what's happening now is that TerraForm is creating this compute instance in AWS using the credentials
that you provided.
So it's going to authenticate against Amazon using the access key and the secret key, and it's connected
to the region that we specified.
So we're going to find that this my example AWS instance is created in US East One.
And when it is done, Oh, TerraForm will block until the compute resource has been created.
Okay, so TerraForm is done.
That didn't take too long, did it?
It added one resource.
We can verify this by logging into the AWS console, so I'm going to switch over.
I'm going to log back into my console.
Okay.
And then under here, we're going to go under EC2, click on EC2 under compute.
Now make sure that you're logged in to the same region in the console as you are in your TerraForm code.
You can see here, if I click excuse me, next to my name, you're going to see the region.
If I click on this, so us East one is Northern Virginia and these are all the other regions in the
AWS cloud that you can log into.
But for the purposes of this particular step in the lab, I created the EC2 instance in US East one.
And so I'm going to log into the console in US East one, which is northern Virginia.
From the console, I cannot see compute resources in a different region.
I have to I have to switch over to that region to see what's there.
Okay.
So now that I'm here, scroll on the left hand side.
We're going to go down to instances.
Under instances.
If I click on that, I'm going to see all the instances that are that are deployed under my account.
And here it is.
This line right here represents the the.
I'm going to zoom in a little bit.
This is a little small.
This is the compute resource that we just created using TerraForm.
So we can see here that we have an instance ID and most of these values were generated by Amazon.
Here is the public IP address over here.
Okay.
Here is the public DNS name.
All right.
So all we did when we created this compute instance was we specified the instance type, which is this
T two dot micro, and we specified the machine image.
Okay, which is not on this display, but if I drag this up.
You'll be able to see.
Let's see.
Where is it?
Am I ID?
So that ID that we specified, I lied.
It's not a red hat enterprise Linux image, it's an ubuntu image.
So there's that in buntu image right here.
So this maps to that image id that we specified in our terraform code.
Okay.
So cool.
We just created a compute resource.

--- Lab 1.5 - Change a Resource ---

Now I'm going to show you how to change a resource that already exists.
Okay.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to minimize this browser window and back in my TerraForm code, what I want to do is I want
to switch.
OS images don't want to to anymore.
I want to pick a different Ami image.
So in the lab guide, there is an image ID that we're going to use.
We're going to switch from from this image you see on the screen to this new image here.
Okay.
Notice the IDs have changed.
Okay, I'm going to save this.
Okay.
Remember, TerraForm is declarative.
I don't need to tell TerraForm how to move from from one change to the next.
TerraForm handles that for us.
So I declare the change in my code.
I save the file.
Now go ahead and run TerraForm plan again.
And TerraForm will figure out what steps need to be taken to make the change.
So on this screen here, we can see that.
It's going to do a minus plus, which is basically a destroy, then create a replacement.
This is because Amazon doesn't support deploying a new image onto a VM without without destroying it.
Right.
So it's got to destroy it first and then it will recreate that resource and then deploy the new image.
And so that's what it's going to do here.
And so all these resources notice the values for all the various attributes.
These are the known values, these are the present values.
Now and then when we recreate that resource, we can see that they're going to be computed, they're
going to change.
Okay, So these values that are that are right here along the left hand side of this are going to change.
Okay?
So once we're happy with this, we notice down here at the summary, we're going to destroy one resource.
And we're going to add one resource.
So once you're happy with this run TerraForm apply to make the change and then yes, to confirm the
change.
And what's going to happen now is that TerraForm is going to destroy our my example EC2 instance and
recreate it with the new image ID.
Now while this is running.
TerraForm knows what the current state is based upon the TerraForm State file.
So if I go over here, you can see look at this file just magically appeared in our lab.
One directory.
This file.
Represents the current state.
After that first terraform apply.
Okay, so this file you do not want to edit?
TerraForm manages this file.
There will be a lab later on that will show you how to maintain this file in in remote storage so that
you can collaborate on a team using TerraForm.
So imagine, if you will, you've got a couple people running TerraForm.
How do you how do you share this state file and ensure that that this file does not get corrupt, that
that everything is in sync and intact?
So there'll be there'll be a separate lecture in lab on how to how to do that.
Okay, great.
So TerraForm is done recreating the instance with our new image ID.
So here is that.
That new army ID that we specified, we can go ahead and confirm this change actually happened by going
back to the console.
I'm going to refresh this page.
This is the original instance.
I'm going to refresh it, click the refresh button here, and the ID should change up here.
The instance ID.
There it goes.
Okay.
So we see that we have two instances here.
Now we have one that was terminated.
This was the original instance and we have one that was running.
This is the new instance.
And so if we click on the terminated instance, we can see let's see if we can find the old army ID.
Okay, So it's, it's that in buntu image, right.
That was the original, the new one.
Is an Amazon Linux image.
Notice how those two are different.

--- Lab 1.6 - Destroy a Resource ---

So cool.
So I showed you how to create a resource using TerraForm.
I showed you how to change a resource using TerraForm.
And now I'm going to show you how to destroy those resources.
So this is an important step.
If you if you don't have a well, even if you have a free tier account, you'll want to get into the
habit, at least in this course, to destroy the resources that you create at the end of each lab.
This this reduces your your billing, so to speak.
So to to destroy your resources.
We do a terraform destroy and this will destroy everything that's maintained in that TerraForm State
file.
Okay?
Now TerraForm is going to prompt you if you want to, to actually destroy these resources and it will
tell you exactly what it's going to destroy.
So TerraForm is going to perform the following actions.
It's going to destroy our my example resource type in Yes, to confirm.
And hit enter.
All right.
So TerraForm is done destroying all of our resources.
We can go back to this page and, well, it looks like it's automatically refreshing on my end.
You can.
You can certainly refresh the page if you like, but the last known state was shutting down if I refresh
the page.
Hopefully it shows up terminated.
And we can see that the instance has been terminated.
So resources that are terminated don't count against you for the for the number of hours that you have
in your free tier or from a billing perspective.
If they're terminated, they're not running.
They're not costing Amazon anything.
Okay.
So it's safe to see when you see terminated here that it's off the books and that is the end of the
first lab.
So just to highlight, I showed you how to start creating your free tier AWS account.
We downloaded the TerraForm binary and installed that in our system.
We created our first TerraForm configuration file and we defined a provider, an AWS provider to be
exact, and created a compute resource in Amazon.

--- Terraform Variables ---

Welcome to the next lecture on TerraForm variables.
There are two types of variables that TerraForm supports.
The first type I'm going to talk about are input variables.
These are the ones that you'll use most often.
Input variables are used to parameterize your TerraForm configuration, which helps you decouple hardcoded
values from the resources.
This makes the TerraForm Code more versatile and flexible.
Imagine hard coding which aws region and amis.
In your TerraForm code.
Then realizing that you want to also deploy the same infrastructure to another AWS region.
You would have to maintain two sets of TerraForm configurations to support two different regions.
This is not ideal.
Variables can be defined and assigned in files or environment variables or passed in through the command
line separate from the resource configuration.
This allows the definition of the resource to be decoupled from specific configuration details that
may be environment or user specific.
Here.
In this example, I'm showing the general syntax for declaring a variable.
We must always declare a variable in TerraForm.
So here we've got the special keyword variable followed by name.
Name is the name you will give the variable.
All the attributes listed here are optional.
The default type for any variable is a string, but TerraForm also supports lists, maps and booleans.
The default attribute allows you to specify a default value for the variable.
This too is also optional and last.
The description is merely used to document your code.
This is optional as well.
So here are two examples for declaring variables.
The first variable region is declared with no attributes.
This is a very simple, the most basic variable declaration.
It also has no value assigned to it yet.
The second variable specifies a default value.
If we do nothing to assign a value to this variable later on, TerraForm will use this default value
specified here.
You can declare variables in any file ending in WTF.
When you run TerraForm on the command line, TerraForm loads all TTF files from the current working
directory into memory and builds a dependency graph of all those variables and resources.
This allows you to write your code in any order that you want.
TerraForm is not a procedural language, it is declarative.
So I can have one variable before another variable.
I can have a resource come first and then the variable definition come after it.
That it relies on it does not matter.
TerraForm determines where dependencies are and then loads those into memory in that order.
So the first variable type that we're going to look at is a string.
Strings are the default type in TerraForm.
This example shows an explicit declaration of a string variable, and that's, I say, explicit because
we are using the type attribute to specify that this is a string under the this is the my variable variable
that we're talking about.
We're also specifying a default value as well.
And the second example is for a multi line string we can use here dot notation to create a a string
that's multiple lines.
TerraForm also supports boolean variables.
Here we are setting the default value for this variable to true.
Then now this kind of looks like a string here.
And TerraForm handles strings of true and false, just like a boolean.
TerraForm does support ordered lists as well.
In this first code example, I am implicitly declaring an empty list variable and in the following line
of code I am assigning values one through three to that list.
This is an implicit definition because I have not specified a type.
We did, however, specify an empty list, which is those square brackets as the default value by assigning
an empty list as the default value.
TerraForm assumes that this is a list.
Now on the second box below for the variable sizes, we are explicitly declaring that this variable
is a list by using the type attribute.
And then again, we're also assigning a default list to that variable of small, medium and large lists
are ordered and they start at zero, meaning the indexes start at zero.
TerraForm also supports maps.
You may be familiar with dictionary data types or a hash map in other programming languages.
This is very similar.
A map is a collection of key value pairs where the key is used to look up a value in the map.
In this example, we have defined a map containing.
AWS regions and Amazon machine images.
If I need to look up an army for a specific region, I simply pass in the region to the map and the
map will return the right army.
You will see these variables in examples in action later in the labs.

--- Using Variables ---

So to date, I've shown you how to declare a variable in your TerraForm code.
Here is how we can reference a variable in our code.
The syntax for referencing a variable is.
Var dot followed by the name of the variable.
Now here it's surrounded by a dollar sign and curly braces.
This is known as an interpolation.
When you want to reference a variable, you're going to use a dollar sign, curly braces, and then
the name of the variable.
TerraForm will will take that interpolation and replace it with the value of that variable at runtime.
So in this example below we have a resource, an instance resource.
This is an EC2 instance, and one of the attributes we're specifying is the Amazon machine image or
Ami, and rather than hard coding which machine image we want to use, we are passing in a variable
instead.
And so at runtime, TerraForm will replace that variable with an actual value.
So there are three main ways of assigning values to variables, and this slide shows you the order in
descending precedence.
So I can assign values to variables from the command line in a file and I can also use environment variables.
However, the command line arguments will override anything defined in a file which will override anything
defined as an environment variable.
So when you want to specify a value for a variable from the command line.
You use the dash var flag to do so.
In this example we are assigning the value us East one, which is an AWS region to the variable named
region to assign values to variables in a file.
We typically create a file named Terraform.tf vars and then just do the key equals value or the variable
equals value in that file itself.
And here's an example of that where we assign that same AWS region to the region variable.
There's something special with files ending in TF vars or auto tf VARs.
These files are automatically loaded by TerraForm.
Now, we can also explicitly tell TerraForm to load other files using the dash var dash file flag.
This is really useful if you want to separate and manage environment specific configurations and buy
configurations.
Mean configuration parameters.
So you may have one set of TerraForm code for creating infrastructure, but you may have different environments
that are used, say development test and production.
And in that case, you may want to separate out those environment specific details.
Into separate files.
And lastly, environment variables can be used to set values for variables.
Environment variables must start with all uppercase tf underscore var underscore and then followed by
the name of that variable.
I typically use tf vars or environment variables when I want to specify my authentication details for
a certain cloud provider.
So in this example, in this block, we are exporting, we are setting us east one to our region variable.
And notice how region has been prefixed with tf underscore var underscore.
So setting values for maps after the fact, after they've been declared as a little, it's a little
harder to do so than a string here in a in this first block I am declaring a map variable named web
server amis and then in the block box below, I am assigning values to that map in a separate file that
I'm calling Terraform.tf VARs and this TF VARs file will automatically get loaded when I run TerraForm.
So the first step is to declare that variable.
The second step is to assign values to that variable.
Another variable type I want to talk about are output variables.
These are used to persist configuration data like an IP address or a hostname.
This is typically the result of of running a terraform apply.
I use these a lot of times when when there are dynamic attributes that are computed at creation time.
So when we run TerraForm apply, there are some values that are that need to be computed by the cloud
provider.
I can create an output variable that is a read only.
It's a read only variable that I can use for reference later on in my code.
An output variables can be queried using the TerraForm output command after the fact.
So as an example, when we created our EC2 instance in the first lab, a public IP address was generated
for that EC2 instance.
Uh, TerraForm did not output the value of that public IP address, and that is by design.
We would actually need to create an output variable for that public IP address and then TerraForm would
have displayed that for us.
Output variables are typically used for or used by other scripts to extract information and to be used
elsewhere in those scripts.
So here's an example of defining an output variable, as I just mentioned.
Here we have the output keyword followed by the name of the variable.
This is completely arbitrary.
This is a web server, public IP.
I picked this completely arbitrary and the value is actually.
A variable in this case.
So I have I'm assigning the public IP address that's associated with my web server to this output variable.
And then when I run TerraForm apply, TerraForm will spit out the value of that output variable.
And if you're confused about the syntax here in that first block, the underscore instance dot my web
server dot public underscore IP.
I will talk about this in one of the later labs.
This is a way of referencing an attribute for a given resource.
Okay, so the variables lab in the lab guide will cover using environment variables.
We're actually going to use them to store our access and secret keys, and then we're going to use file
based variables to decouple the region and some other details from our TerraForm configuration.
So we're going to start moving away from hard coding, valuable variables in our excuse me, we're going
to start moving away from hard coding values in our TerraForm config files and keeping them either in
environment variables or in files, separate files.
And then we're going to use an output variable to return some information about the resources that we
create.

--- Lab 2.1 - Storing AWS Crendentials in Variables ---

Hi everyone, and welcome to the TerraForm Variables Lab.
This should be lab number two in the lab guide.
In this lab, you're going to learn how to use both input and output variables.
In the previous lab, we used hardcoded values in our configuration, which was fine for demonstration
purposes and getting your feet wet with TerraForm.
However, in a collaborative development environment, we need to find a way to decouple developer and
environment specific details out of our configurations.
And one big bad practice that I want to get away from is hardcoding those access and secret keys that
were part of the provider that we created earlier.
So you can see that on my screen right now.
This is from Lab one.
We had our access key and our secret key embedded in our provider.
Imagine, if you will, this file getting uploaded to like GitHub, you know, by accident.
And now my access and secret keys are on the Internet for everyone to see.
So as an anecdote, this actually happened to me during the production of this lab.
I actually went through the motions of of creating these lab and these TerraForm files, and I did a
git push Origin master, and my AWS account was compromised within hours, and somebody managed to create
a ton of EC2 compute resources across the world.
So that took me about a couple of days to square up with Amazon and I had over $1,000 in charges and
thankfully Amazon was fantastic and got, you know, just through those charges out and we locked down
the account.
And so anyway, I'm a big preacher of security and I had a momentary lapse stupid moment of me.
So anyway, learn from me.
Don't store your access keys or secret keys intentionally or unintentionally out on the Internet.
So.
Don't put this up and get.
Anyway, let's get going.
So what we're going to do to start is we're going to build on top of what we did in lab one.
Okay.
What I'm going to do is.
Over here in my terminal window.
I'm going to make another.
I'm going to make a lab to directory.
Okay.
So once we've created that lab two directory, we're going to create a file called Variables.tf.
So I'm going to go back over to Atom here.
Let's see.
Where's my lab to?
You want to create a new file and we're going to call it variables.
WTF?
This Variables.tf.
I'll do a listing here so you can see it.
We're going to declare our variables in this variables.tf file.
So in this file we're going to put our we're going to declare our variables for our access and secret
key and the AWS region.
To do that, I'm going to do a variable AWS access key.
And then empty curly braces.
Here I am declaring a variable named AWS access key with no default attributes and no default value.
We're going to set.
This.
We're going to set a value for this access key in just a moment.
And I'm going to do the same thing for the secret key.
Okay.
The next variable we're going to declare is for the Amazon region.
For this, we are actually going to define a default value.
Okay.
So curly brace.
Then inside the curly braces, we are going to specify a default value of U.
This is going to be our default region that we're working with.
And we can override this later on if we'd like.
Okay.
Notice how we didn't specify type for any of these variables.
These are all string variables which TerraForm will assume are string variables anyway, so we don't
need to specify type for these.
We can.
It's not going to hurt, but we're not going to do that for the lab.
Okay, so I want to save this file.
Any variable.
I must caveat this.
There's a note in the lab about this as well.
All variables that are that are going to be used must be declared.
Okay.
You cannot.
You have to declare all your variables.
This is just like any other programming language.
Well, most programming languages that are declarative, like, say, Java or C plus plus any of those
old archaic languages that I grew up learning how to use.
All right.
So with the variables file created, I'm going to create a new file, another new file called Provider.
WTF?
Okay.
The provider file.
Is going to contain the configuration for our provider.
So if you recall from Lab one, we had a we had a provider keyword followed by the provider type, which
is AWS.
And then we had.
Three attributes one for access key.
And I'll just set these in a second.
Secret key and region.
Okay.
So rather than hard code these, we're going to reference the variables that we just declared and to
reference a variable.
Variables are TerraForm is going to use interpolations to look up a variable's value.
So in double quotes, I'm going to do a dollar sign curly brace, and then to reference a variable,
it's always var.
Which tells TerraForm that this is going to be a variable dot and then the name of the variable that
we just declared in our variables file.
So I'm going to go back here and use this one.
So we're going to declare our access key.
Okay.
And then for our secret key.
Far.
I'll just type it out.
There's our secret key and then our region.
Let me go back.
The name of our region variable.
Okay.
All right.
So save this file as well.
Close that.
How's that?
Oh, that's a good example.
So we went from here is our original provider configuration where we hardcoded the access key and the
secret key and the region.
And then this is our new one.
So these are variables.
So right now we've only declared the variables.
We haven't we have not assigned any values to these variables yet.
To do that, we're going to set y.
I take that back.
We assigned a default value for the region variable for the access key and the secret key we're going
to use environment variables.
So to do that, go into your terminal window.
And we're I'm in I'm in a bash shell.
If you're in windows, you're going to be using set or set X to set an environment variable.
Here.
I'm going to be using the export command to set an environment variable.
And the syntax for this is going to be an export.
TF underscore Var, this is all in caps underscore and then the name of our variable.
So that is AWS access underscore key.
Equals.
Oops, sorry.
No equals pspace.
Yes.
Equals.
What am I talking about?
Equals.
And then in quotes, I'm going to put my access key and I'm going to go figure out where my access key
is.
In fact, we'll just.
I'm just going to copy it out of my a cheat.
I'm going to copy it out of here.
Okay.
And then I'm going to do the same thing for the secret key.
So this is obviously much more secure than hard coding them in a text file since environment variables
are not persisted to disk.
There we go.
So if I do an env grep tf I'm going to see that I have my two.
Uh, terraform environment variables assigned.
Okay.
Make sure that this matches.
Uh, this part.
Where's our variable?
There we go.
This part.
Okay, so TerraForm will automatically associate this environment variable with what's declared in our
variables.tf file.

--- Lab 2.2 - Create a Compute Resource ---

With those two values defined or those environment variables set, we need to go ahead.
We can go ahead and declare our compute instance.
So let's create another TerraForm file under lab two and we're going to call it compute WTF.
So notice how we're breaking things apart.
Now, in the first lab, we had just a single TerraForm file with everything inside of that one file.
Here we are, breaking things apart.
We have variables declared in a variables TF file.
We have our provider configuration in a separate file provider TF And now we're going to declare our
web server compute resource in a file named Compute TF.
So I'm going to do I'm going to declare our instance.
So the syntax is, is the resource keyword followed by the type of resource.
So this AWS underscore instance is a resource type followed by the name of the resource which I'm going
to call just web server.
All right.
And then inside we're going to define the two required attributes, which is am I equals?
And I'm going to use the the value of the Ami image in the lab guide.
Now, keep in mind that these are region specific.
So if you're using a different region, you're going to need to use an Ami for that region.
And then instance type.
So you're probably asking yourself, well, we parameterized the provider configuration, but we're
hardcoding the RMI and instance type here.
Coming up later on in this lab, I'll show you how to use a map to keep a running list of machine images
for a given region.
Okay.
So save the compute ttf file.
Now back over in the terminal window.
Since we created a new TerraForm directory, we need to initialize it again.
So run a terraform init in the lab.
Two directory.
And TerraForm is going to go out and download the provider.
And we're all set to go.
So with our directory initialized, you can go ahead and run TerraForm plan now.
And we see here that TerraForm will create our web server instance.
So now we'll run TerraForm apply to actually create it and then type.
Yes, to approve.
And so this is going to look no different than the first lab.
What's different here is that we're using variables to specify our access and secret key and our default
region.
So if you're seeing this output when you're running through the lab, then you've successfully configured
your environment variables for your access keys.
Okay, So with this compute instance created, we verify that our variables are working.
Let's go ahead and destroy.
So run, TerraForm.
Destroy.
And while that's running, we're going to move on to the next part of the lab.
Yep.
Confirm this first.

--- Lab 2.3 - Using a Map as a Lookup Table ---

And we're going to use a map as a lookup table.
So I talked earlier about how we were Hardcoding Amis for a specific region.
Now we're going to create a variable map that will contain Amis for a handful of regions.
So go ahead and open up the Variables.tf file, which I have here, and we're going to create a new
variable named web server Amis.
And then we're going to declare this.
This is going to be an explicit declaration of type map.
Okay, so here are the variables declared.
Save this file and rather than we're not going to use an environment variable to assign values to this
variable or specify a default set.
We're going to create a new file named Terraform.tf VARs.
So go ahead and create that new file.
Oops.
Where'd it go?
Create a new file terraform.tf VARs.
The extension is very specific.
And in this file, we're going to create a map.
Of regions to machine images, and I'm going to copy it out of the lab guide because it'll be faster.
All right, let's just make sure that the formatting is correct.
Okay, So what we're doing here is we're assigning a value.
In a file.
And to do that I for a for a map.
This is specific to a map.
I've got the name of my variable, the name of my map.
The web server underscore amis.
Then I've got my curly brace and inside my curly braces, I'm assigning key value pairs.
So we can see here that we have our US East one region, which is the region that we have been working
with, and we're assigning this Ami image to that, to that region.
This is going to serve as a lookup table.
So if you want to create resources in US East One or Northern California or Mumbai or Frankfurt or Sao
Paulo, Brazil, you can pass in the region to this map and the map will return the Ami for that region.
So go ahead and save your file.
Now we're going to update our compute resource to use the map.
So under the Ami attribute, we're going to replace this hardcoded value and we're going to perform
a lookup.
There are built in functions in TerraForm and one of them is a lookup function.
We can use the lookup function to look up the value in a map based off of a key.
And that key is going to be the region.
So in the lab guide, we're going to do a look from the lab guide.
The syntax is in the lab guide there.
We're going to do a lookup and the lookup takes two parameters.
It's going to take the name of the map.
And then a key.
To use as the lookup value.
So the name of our map is var dot web server underscore amis.
Now we must prefix the map name with var.
So var tells TerraForm that we are referencing a variable.
And then comma.
And then our region.
So we're going to use the region variable that we defined earlier as our lookup value.
Okay.
Go ahead and save this file.
And now we can go ahead and create some EC2 resources in a different region.

--- Lab 2.4 - Setting Variables on the Command Line ---

To do that, we're actually going to use a command line argument to override the region variable.
So what we need to do here is going to run a TerraForm plan like we've always done, and then we're
going to override the region variable.
To do that, we're going to specify the var flag.
So dash, var and then the name of the variable, which is AWS underscore region equals and then specify
a different region instead of US East one to see if this works.
So I'm going to go back to my Terraform.tf r file and pick a different region here.
Going to specify.
Data center region over in India.
Single quotes here and then run this plan.
And that looks pretty good to me.
So now we're going to run apply.
Now, if you run, you have to specify the region using Var.
When you run the apply, the variable doesn't persist between.
So the variable on the command line does not persist between command line executions.
So if I had just done TerraForm apply, TerraForm would have created the EC2 instance in the default
data default region, which would have been US East one.
So I have to specify dash var here.
And go ahead and run the apply and then.
Yes, to approve.
In TerraForm should now be connecting to Mumbai to create that EC2 instance.
So once TerraForm is done, let's go ahead and confirm that we actually.
Created this resource.
So log in to your AWS console and navigate to the EC2 tab.
And I'm going to click under instances here.
They notice?
I don't have any running instances.
That's because I'm still in my default US East one region, which is Northern Virginia.
I have to switch to the the region where we created that resource.
So I'm going to switch over to Mumbai.
This is going to load the Mumbai console.
And here is our compute resource that we just created.
And we can also scroll this up a little bit.
And the army.
Whereas our army.
Here's our ID.
And you can see 34 and that should match what we put in our map.
See 34.
So this maps or matches what we created in Mumbai.
Okay, so maps are a great way to create lookup tables.
And in the case of AWS, there are resources and configuration items that are specific to a region.
This is this is just one use case for using a map to manage those those resource dependencies, those
region dependencies.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and and destroy the.
The compute resource.
So do a TerraForm Destroy.
And that we must also specify the region as well.
If we don't specify the region, then TerraForm is going to assume you mean the default region, which
is US East one.
So I'm going to run TerraForm Destroy.
Yes, to confirm.

--- Lab 2.5 - Using Output Variables ---

So when we run TerraForm plan or apply to create our EC2 instance, you probably notice that many of
the values for the resource have computed next to them.
So here's an example.
When we ran TerraForm apply, we can see all these values here have computed excuse me, all these attributes
here have computed for values.
That means that TerraForm will generate these values or Amazon will generate these values upon creation
of that resource.
Output variables are a way of capturing these computed values in other values as well for printing or
querying or for some other purpose later on.
So we're going to walk through an example where we will capture the public IP address of this compute
resource in an output variable.
So let's go back to our text editor and open up the computer file.
And then after our resource definition, we're going to add an output variable.
Okay.
And then do that.
We're going to specify the output variable keyword, which is output, and then the name of the variable
that we want to create.
So I'm going to call this web server public IP.
And then inside the curly braces, the value of this output variable is going to be the public IP address
of the resource that we just created.
The way we reference a resource that we just created is to specify the resource type.
Its resource Typekit resource name attribute.
So to reference this resource, this web server resource we just created, I'm going to type the following
AWS underscore instance, which is the type followed by the name of the resource, which is web web
underscore server followed by the attribute.
The public IP address attribute for the web server.
Now the attribute is specific to the resource type.
And in this case it's going to be public underscore IP.
Okay.
So go ahead and save this file.
Save up.
Make sure you save all your files.
Okay.
And then now we're going to run TerraForm plan again.
All looks well and we're going to run TerraForm apply now here.
I did not specify the region.
We're going to use the default region.
So you can see here, here is the attribute, this public IP.
For our EC2 instance is going to be computed.
When TerraForm apply is finished, it will output the value of that public IP address.
Oops.
And I have a typo.
In my code.
See there's my typo that showed up, but here is the output.
So notice that TerraForm apply outputs an output variable.
And here is the public IP address for our EC2 server.
Now what I can do is I can also query the output and unfortunately, terraform output.
And it followed by the name of the variable.
The output variable.
So let's say later on I wanted to.
To come back and get and get the public IP address for the server.
I can run terraform output and pass in the name of the output variable that we defined.
Okay, So that's a way to fetch data later on.
In order to do that for other attributes, I must declare output variables for all these other attributes
if I want to get access to this.
Okay.
So with that done, let's go ahead and run TerraForm, destroy and then yes, to confirm.

--- Interpolations ---

Hi, everyone, and welcome back to my lecture on interpolations in Depth.
TerraForm provides a powerful interpolation syntax that allows you to reference variables and resources
that we've configured up to this point.
In the course, you have only seen interpolations used for variables and resources.
This section is going to take a deeper look into other types of interpolations, including terraform's
built in functions, conditional statements like an if, then else type of conditional statement and
basic math functions.
This table shows most of the different types of interpolations and variables that TerraForm supports.
We've seen some of these in the labs previously, so we've touched on string map and list and resource
attributes as well.
What we haven't touched on is data sources, path info, and there's one other one that's not on here
that we are definitely going to touch on, and that is the count variable.
The count variable is one that allows us to loop through and iterate over lists.
So let's proceed and talk about conditionals first.
TerraForm supports using conditionals and interpolation statements.
Conditionals can be used to specify a result based on some condition in this example, we are testing
whether a variable clustered is true in order to specify the number of servers to create.
So down here we have this variable that we've defined somewhere.
And this is kind of a flag.
Look at this.
Consider this to be a flag to enable or disable some attribute or some feature.
And somewhere previously we have set clustered either equal to 2 or 1.
So if you've never seen ternary syntax before here, let me erase this and I'll try to explain it a
little bit better.
Okay.
So the ternary syntax is essentially this.
We have a condition.
So the condition This is the condition up here.
The condition is testing whether something is true.
Or false.
And if and the question mark is the ternary operator.
And if the condition is true, then the result of this ternary syntax will return the true value.
If the condition is false, it will return the false value.
And these are the supported operators so we can test for equality.
Inequality less than greater than greater than equal to and some binary comparison operators as well.
A bitwise operators.
And so down here in our example.
Here's our example.
We are testing whether or not clustered is equal to true.
There's our this whole thing right here is our condition.
And then there's our ternary operator.
And then our true value is to this would be the true value.
Sorry for my handwriting, and this value would be the false value.
Okay.
So clustered is equal to true.
Then the conditional.
This ternary syntax will return two and if clustered is equal to false, it will return one.
So ultimately, what's going to happen here is that this resource.
Either will create two web servers or one web server.
Let me erase everything.
Let's talk about functions.
TerraForm has a bunch of built in functions for managing lists, maps, performing Cidr calculations.
String formatting.
In hashing algorithms.
All these functions are used inside of interpolations.
We have already used both the file and lookup built in functions in our labs.
The typical syntax for a function is the function name.
Followed by one or more arc and the types of functions that exist.
Like I mentioned earlier, there's lists, map functions, Cidr, math, formatting and hashing algorithms.
And here are some examples here we've already seen.
File.
And lookup the file functions used to load a file into a string and the lookup function is used to look
up a value in a map based off of some key.
And I threw in a third one here.
This Cidr Netmask.
This is just an example of another function to compute a netmask for an based on an IP range.
There's just too many functions to list here in this slide.
So to get the complete list, head on over to this link down here.
This link will provide a list of all the built in functions that TerraForm supports.
Templates are used to manage interpolations that are contained within long strings of text or even text
files themselves.
Templates are a great way to parameterize these long strings using interpolations.
Imagine, if you will, A.
Configuration text file that has some environment specific values inside of it.
We can create a template from that and use interpolations to substitute those environment specific values.
So templates are treated like a data source.
Up to this point, we haven't really talked about data sources yet, but data sources are meant to represent
a resource or some other component in your infrastructure that may have been created outside of your
terraform.
It's like a read only view of a resource.
And then templates are rendered using an output variable.
And so in the lab, we'll walk through this and I'll show you how you can use a template in your terraform
to parameterize some of your configuration files.
So here's one example where we are creating a template inline using the data source syntax.
Now the data source syntax is merely this data keyword followed by the data source type.
Followed by an arbitrary name that we give it inside the data source or excuse me, inside the template
file definition.
The template attribute is used to specify the template string.
This can also be a file on disk, which I'll show in the next slide.
Our template string contains placeholders for a username and public key.
So here is our.
These are our placeholders.
Okay.
That will be replaced with.
These values.
When we render the template, the VARs attribute is used to specify the values to be rendered in that
template.
So we have this VARs stanza inside of our template definition and that's where we define these variables.
Then the output variable here is defined below and that's used to actually render the template.
If you can see here.
To refer to our template.
We have data dot template file, which is the type dot inline example, which is the name of our template.
The dot rendered attribute the rendered attribute returns a rendered version of our template.
So here's another example where we are creating a template from a file rather than using an inline template.
And this is a more probably a more realistic way of using templates in the real world.
Rather than doing an inline template, we specify we use the file function to load a file on disk,
and inside that file we have something very similar to the inline example.
So imagine, if you will, that this.
Loop that this file here.
This file here that we're looking at, that is our terraform.tf file.
And it's essentially a script that's going to echo a username and a public key to some text file.
We have variables defined in here, I shouldn't say variables.
These are these are parameters, so to speak, dollar sign, username, dollar sign, public key and
then these map to.
The template definition.
And so when we render this.
Using the rendered attribute as we saw in the previous slide, TerraForm will substitute in the actual
username and public key.
In this case, and of course, TerraForm supports basic math functions.
If we need to perform addition, subtraction, multiplication or division or even modulo, which is
probably the more common one we'll see.
TerraForm does support that right in your TerraForm code.
And here are some examples of doing that.
And we'll and we'll play with this in the lab actually using the TerraForm console.
So in TerraForm, if we want to create more than one instance of a resource, we can specify the count
attribute which is shown here in this example.
Uh, to make that a little more concrete.
If I want to deploy two of something or three of something, say I want to deploy an ha pair of a web
server, I can specify this count attribute and a value for it.
So this example is going to create me two web servers.
Now we have seen in our TerraForm code in the labs to date when we want to refer to a resource.
Using interpolation and variable references, you're probably wondering, Well, how can I reference
two of something?
We use the index variable here.
So the count index variable and I'll show you an example of this in just a moment is really used to
iterate over.
Multiple instances.
So we'll use contact index to walk through our Web servers, the two web servers that we have.
If we want to refer to a specific instance of that web server, then we use the notation below.
So here's an example using count dot index.
This example, we are creating two web servers and we are assigning a static IP address to both of them.
The first chunk of code declares a map variable containing our private IPS.
That's this web server underscore IPS variable.
The second block of code.
Configures our web server with two attributes.
Count specifies the number of web servers.
We set the private IP address by issuing a lookup on the private IP map variable.
Passing in count index as the key.
This syntax may be confusing for those that are expecting to see a for loop here or some other iteration
explicitly walking through each key in the map or indexing the list with count index.
TerraForm does all that iteration and lookup behind the scenes.
So on the previous slide, we used countdown index to essentially loop through all of our instances
at once.
If we want to access a specific instance and only a specific instance, we use the syntax shown here
on the screen using a splat or an asterisk.
And an index value.
So here's an example.
I'm going to highlight this for you.
This example here, we use this special asterisk.
And then an index value.
That should be an arrow.
What?
I make a better arrow.
It's hard with this little surface pen.
I'll just circle it.
So to reference a specific web server instance in our list of web servers, we have a splat or an asterisk
after the name of the resource.
This tells us to.
Get us all those resources, all those Web servers.
And then at the end of it, we have a.
A an index value in this case, zero.
After the attribute.
The attribute that we're looking up is the private IP and the index value after private IP is zero.
So essentially we are asking for the first private IP address.
For the web server.
And the second example we are asking for the second web server's private IP address, and that's noted
by the one value.
The indexing starts at zero.
So that was a quick run through of variables and interpolations.
Let's head on over to the to the lab, which is going to cover conditionals templates, basic math functions
list and map manipulation and other advanced interpolations, especially the count variable.

--- Lab 2B.1 - Conditionals ---

So welcome back.
This is part B of the second lab on interpolations.
In the previous lab, the variables lab, we worked with three different types of interpolations a variable
reference, a resource reference, and a built in function.
In this lab, we will be working with some of the other types, including conditionals, for incorporating
basic logic into your TerraForm templates for managing long strings or text files and some basic math
functions.
So conditionals are typically used for enabling and disabling a component of infrastructure.
A use case for templates may be to parameterize a configuration file at deployment time with infrastructure
specific details such as a host name or IP address.
So in this lab, we're going to walk through using conditionals, using the ternary syntax that TerraForm
supports.
Then we're going to work on using templates and customized strings.
Using both inline and file based templates.
And then last, I'm going to show you how you can perform some basic math functions using the TerraForm
console.
So for the first part of this lab, and this is now Section one of the Interpolations lab called the
Conditionals.
In this lab, we will use a conditional to determine whether or not to create a bastion server in our
environment.
In our example, we only want to deploy that Bastion server into a production environment.
We do not want to deploy this server in a development environment.
So in most production environments typically typically accesses to your infrastructure is controlled
through a Bastion server.
So we're going to come up with a conditional statement that will tell TerraForm whether or not we want
to deploy this Bastion server.
So to get started, we are going to create a new variable that will be used to specify which environment
we are deploying into.
So go ahead.
And in your lab two, we're going to be working out of the lab two folder here.
I got lab two and edit the Variables.tf file.
We're going to add a new variable called target underscore env.
Okay.
And the default value for this will be dev.
Okay, we're going to use this variable to track what environment we're deploying into.
Okay.
Go ahead and save that file.
Now the next step is to we're going to create a new instance for our Bastion server.
So open up the compute TerraForm file.
From lab two and we're going to add a new resource definition in here.
And in fact, I'm going to copy and paste the code from the lab guide to save me some time.
And we'll put that right in here.
Okay.
So this is going to look exactly like our Web server definition.
In fact, we're specifying the same same Ami as a shortcut and the same instance type.
So you don't need to change anything here.
Just note that the name of the resource that we're creating is Bastion.
And this will be our Bastion server.
So this code is automatically going to tell TerraForm to create one Bastion server.
Regardless, What we're going to do now is we're going to add a conditional statement that says if the
target environment is production, then create one bastion server.
Otherwise, if the target environment is something other than production, don't create it at all.
So we're going to add the following line of code to specify that there is a special attribute that the
AWS instance resource type supports, and that is called count.
Count is used to specify the number of instances we want of a particular resource.
So I could hardcode a value here and I could say I want two of these Bastion servers, but we're not
going to do that.
We're going to specify a conditional statement.
And to do that.
I'm going to type what's in the lab guide.
So if our target environment is equal to dev.
Then count is equal to zero.
Else count is equal to one.
And this is that ternary syntax.
So this again, what we're specifying here is that the the value of count is equal to whatever the result
is from this conditional statement in the conditional statement is equating the target environment.
If it's equal to dev, then we want zero bastion servers.
Else we want one Bastion server.
So this is a pretty common example of how to use conditionals to turn on and off features within TerraForm.
So let's go ahead and save the file.
Make sure you save all your files.
I'm going to save everything.
Now let's go ahead and run TerraForm plan.
So in my terminal window, I'm in my in my lab two directory.
I'm going to run TerraForm plan.
And let's notice the number of resources that it's planning to create.
So it's going to create one resource.
And if we look above, we can see that it's only creating the web server resource.
And the reason for this is that when we defined our target environment variable, we specified a default
value of dev, okay?
And since we did not override that value in our compute TerraForm code, our conditional says if that
target environment is dev, the count is equal to zero.
So TerraForm is not going to create a Bastion server.
We can override this value, okay?
We can override the target environment from the command line.
And we're going to do that.
I'm going to run TerraForm plan again.
Dash var and then the name of the variable target.
Env equals prod.
Go ahead and run this.
And it shouldn't come back and tell us that it's going to create two resources.
So to to add, if I scroll up here, there's our Bastion server.
Okay.
Great.
So we're not actually going to run TerraForm apply, We're just going to do the plan just to demonstrate
what TerraForm will do.

--- Lab 2B.2 - Using $count to Manage Multiple Instances ---

So moving on to the second section of the lab guide, managing multiple instances of a resource.
TerraForm provides a special variable for accessing these instances in our TerraForm Code.
So in this example, in this lab guide, we will create multiple Bastion servers and then we will use
a special interpolation to access each one of those instances.
So let's pretend for a moment that we want to create three bastion servers.
So in our compute TerraForm code.
We're going to change the one over here to a three.
So if we're not in development, we want three bastion servers in our environment, and TerraForm is
going to create three instances of Bastion.
Next, we want to create an output variable that contains the private IP addresses of all of our Bastion
servers.
Okay, so down below I'm going to add some code.
I'm going to copy and paste it from the lab guide to save me some time.
Okay.
All right.
So have a look at the interpolation being used for this particular output variable.
There is a splat or asterisk.
The technical term for that character is a splat.
I prefer asterisk, but so the splatter asterisk inside the interpolation, which is positioned right
after the name of the resource, in this case Bastion.
Um, tells TerraForm that we want all instances of Bastion.
And then following the splat is the attribute that we want from each and every instance of Bastion,
and that's private IP.
So this is one mechanism, this interpolation syntax really is showing you how to fetch attributes from
all instances of a particular resource.
We can also reference a specific instance as well using an index value.
So let's say we have our three bastion servers and we want to access the first or second instance and
not all of them.
I'll show you how to do that with index notation.
And to do that, we're going to create another output variable now.
I'm using output variables here because they're easy to demonstrate the interpolation syntax, but you
can use this interpolation in any other anywhere else within your TerraForm code does not have to be
tied to an output variable.
Okay.
So what I'm going to do now is I want to print out I want to capture the IP address for the first Bastion
server.
Okay.
So I'm going to type actually, we're going to copy and paste the code from the lab guide.
Uh, this will reduce the number of fat fingering errors.
As long as the lab guide is correct.
Okay, So have a look at this syntax here.
So we're creating an output variable called Bastion.
Underscore underscore zero.
The zero here.
Now, these names for these output variables are completely arbitrary.
I'm specifying zero as the to represent the first Bastion server.
So when we create multiple instances of a resource, I'm using the count variable.
It creates a list essentially, and the list is starts at zero.
Everything is indexed, starting with zero and looking at the interpolation for the value.
Everything looks the same.
We're asking TerraForm to return all Bastion servers.
However, when we append the the index notation, which is just square bracket, the index value close
square bracket after the attribute, this interpolation is basically saying, Hey, return me the private
IP address of the first Bastion server.
And so if we want the second if we wanted the second private IP address from the second best or excuse
me, if we wanted the private IP address from the second Bastion server, then I would put a one here.
Okay.
Because everything is indexed, starting with zero.
If I wanted the second Bastion server, I'd put a two here.
If I put a three here.
And we only have three Bastion servers.
But when you're indexed at zero, three means the fourth.
So I've gone beyond the size of my.
I've gone beyond the number of Bastion servers I actually created.
TerraForm is going to throw an error at you.
Okay.
So go ahead and put zero in there.
Save this file.
And now.
We're going to run TerraForm plan, okay?
And make sure that we specify the the target environment as prod.
Okay.
Notice that we are going to get a total of four resources.
One of those is the web server and we can see here.
Here's our first Bastion server indexed at zero.
Second Bastion.
Indexed at one.
And third.
Bastion.
Indexed at two.
In each one of these is going to have a private IP address, a unique private IP address.
So let's go ahead and run this.
So we're going to do a TerraForm apply, make sure to specify the target environment variable.
Otherwise it'll default to dev and you won't get anything.
Confirm your actions.
And since there are no dependencies, TerraForm is actually going to parallelize this operation and
create all three Bastion servers at once.
All right.
So now that TerraForm apply is complete, we have our two new output variables.
Bastion IP underscore zero, which is the IP, the private IP address of our first.
Bastion server.
And also we have the Bastion IPS output variable, which is a list of all the private IP addresses for
our Bastion servers.
And so that is how we can use the splat notation to reference all of our servers or excuse me, multiple
instances of a particular resource or an individual instance of a resource.

--- Lab 2B.3 - Terraform Templates ---

So in subsection three of the Interpolations lab.
We're going to work with templates.
So templates are useful for managing configuration files that contain maybe environment specific details.
We can create a template of that configuration file and then specify some variables inside the template
that will be replaced with real values at runtime.
So when this lab, I'm going to create an identity and access management policy, an AWS policy specific
to our Web server compute instance, this policy is going to allow only certain actions to be performed
in the console or through the API.
The policy takes an AWS resource name or number.
We will use a variable for the Arn, I'll call it Arn in our template file rather than hardcode the
resource number because we don't know the resource for the compute instance ahead of time.
This is a dynamic value.
This will allow us to reapply the policy over time without having to update the policy every time we
create a new compute instance.
So in the lab two folder you're going to want to create and I've already got it created.
This is a a a policy file.
So in the lab, the lab is going to have you create a file named Policy dot TPL.
The file name can be anything that you want.
But I'm calling it policy for template.
This is a very simple example of an AWS policy that we are going to apply to a compute resource that
we create.
Now, normally in order to attach a policy to a resource, you have to specify an Amazon resource number,
and that's done using the resource attribute that you see here on the policy.
Now, rather than hardcode the resource number.
Which makes reusability of this policy almost impossible.
We're going to use a template parameter here instead, and that's shown using the interpolation syntax.
We have a variable here defined called Arn or.
Amazon resource number.
And somewhere in our TerraForm code we are going to specify a value for that variable.
And then during the TerraForm apply stage we will render this template, which means that the Arn variable
will be substituted for a real value.
So make sure you save the template file.
Now go ahead and edit your computer file from lab to.
And we're going to define a template.
Templates are defined kind of using the data source syntax.
So the keyword here is data, and then the data source type is template file.
And then we have to give this resource a name like everything else.
So we're going to call it Web server policy.
Template.
And inside of our data source, our template file.
There are two attributes we need to specify.
The first one is the location of our template file, and we do that by specifying or using the template
attribute and we are going to load it using the loaded as a string using the built in function file.
Okay.
So we're going to.
And then here's another interpolation, which I'll go over in just a second.
So path dot module.
Policy TTL.
Okay.
All right.
Let me explain the syntax here for a moment.
So the template file data source type takes a template attribute which will point to either a, a string
that we can hardcode in our file here or an actual file itself.
And so we're using the built in file function to load a policy file from the file system.
The Path module is a special terraform variable that gives us the path of our module.
In order to discuss modules in one of our later labs.
But a module is essentially a directory containing TerraForm code.
So essentially this path module is going to return our, in this case our current working directory,
so we don't have to fully hardcode the fully qualified path to our template file.
All right.
The next attribute we're going to define is VARs.
Now, VARs is where we specify the value for our variables, for our variable substitutions.
Now, remember?
That we want to substitute in the resource number for our web server into our policy template file.
To do that.
We specify the name of the template variable, which is Arn.
Remember, that's the same as what's in our template file.
So these have to match.
Here's our template file and there's our template variable.
Now in our data source template file, we are specifying a value for that template variable, and that
value is our web server dot arn or resource number.
Okay.
And so at runtime, when I go to run, TerraForm apply.
TerraForm will create the compute instance.
Okay.
And then get the Arn from that compute instance and substitute it into our policy template file.
No, it doesn't actually write to the template file.
It's.
It's writing it.
It's keeping the, the template, basically the rendered template in memory.
And I will show you how to get that out of memory in just a moment here.
So to do that for now, what I'm going to demonstrate is how to how to display that rendered template
using an output variable.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and define a new output variable.
And I'm going to copy and paste this from the lab guide.
To save some time.
Okay, here is our new output variable that we're calling web server policy output.
And here we're referencing our template file, our Web server policy template file.
And this this attribute here on the end, this rendered attribute is a special attribute within the
a part of the template file data.
Source type rendered is the rendered version of our template.
Okay.
So when we run TerraForm apply, TerraForm will display this output variable.
It'll, it'll render the template and display the rendered template.
So go ahead and save this file.
Save all your changes.
And now we're going to run TerraForm plan.
Oh, my my apologies.
Let's if you're if you're running this lab right after the previous lab on managing multiple instances
of a resource, we need to specify the target environment.
So I originally created three bastion servers in the previous lab.
And so I want to I want to make sure that we are working off of that those three bastion servers here.
So I'm going to run TerraForm Plan with that target environment variable specified.
And notice there is no changes to the infrastructure.
We did not make any changes.
Now go ahead and run.
Apply.
And when we run, apply.
It's going to render that new output variable that we defined and have a look here.
So here is our temp.
This probably looks familiar.
This should look familiar.
This is our our policy template file that we created.
Okay.
That doesn't show up well.
And notice that it's substituted in a real value for the Arn.
We can now use this output.
We can use this output variable to write a file to disk and then upload this access policy to AWS.
So that's one particular use case we can use and create templates for all sorts of different types of
files.
So anything that really that is, is environment specific or needs to be determined at runtime or deployment
time is a great use case for using templates.
All right.
So let's go ahead and run TerraForm, destroy and make sure that we specify the target environment because
I want to destroy all.
Whoops, My apologies.
I want to destroy all the Bastion servers and everything that we've created to date.

--- Lab 2B.4 - Simple Math ---

I want to show you how you can perform simple math operations in TerraForm so you can do addition,
subtraction, multiplication, modulo those those pretty basic math functions rather than edit our TerraForm
code to demonstrate those math functions, we can simply use the TerraForm console.
So this is the first time that in this lab I've shown or mentioned TerraForm console, but this is really
a great place to play around with interpolations.
So if you want to play with interpolations, you can assign variables and you can play with interpolation
syntax.
So to demonstrate the math side of things, you know, I can simply do it works like a calculator.
So you just type it out in the TerraForm console and you know, there you have it.
It's really, it's really not that.
Not that amazing if you ask me.
So it works.
And we can demonstrate different operations.
The built in math functions do support order of operations.
So I can do, you know, three plus five times ten.
Okay.
That gives us 80.
I can do three times.
Five times plus ten.
That's going to give us 25.
So you can see here that if you're if you're knowledgeable about math and order of operations, the
parentheses allow us to to to specify that order of operations anyway.
And we can also use interpolation syntax.
So I can do something along the lines of three times five and curly braces and our interpolation syntax.
And this is, this is exactly what you would include in your TerraForm code.
And that gives us the same that gives us an answer.
15 So that's pretty much it.
With TerraForm Console, feel free to experiment with other types of interpolations in the console itself
to exit.
You can type exit or you can control C or control D.

--- Resource Depedencies ---

Hi everyone and welcome to the lecture on resource dependencies.
So in the real world, when we create infrastructure, some resources are going to have dependencies
on other resources.
Examples of this include a compute instance being deployed into a subnet.
The compute instance requires that the subnet be available for deploy to be deployed into.
Another example includes a load balancer with a floating IP address.
If we want to assign the floating IP address to the load balancer, the load balancer has to already
exist.
And another great example is a database with block storage.
In order to provision the database, we need to have available storage.
So TerraForm configurations can contain multiple resources with many dependencies between them.
The cool thing about TerraForm is that it will build a dependency graph of all the resources in your
TerraForm code so it figures out which resources are dependent upon the other resources, whether that's
an implicit relationship or an explicit relationship.
And I'll talk about those in just a second.
So using the dependency graph, TerraForm is able to parallelize the creation of resources.
So resources that do not have dependencies on other resources can be created in parallel.
Whereas resources that do have dependencies will be created in the correct order.
And TerraForm handles this for you.
You do not need to code procedurally which resources need to be created first.
So here's an example of an implicit dependency.
This example assumes that we've already created an AWS instance named my web server.
This is just a compute instance that already exists.
The resource definition you see in the code here is creating an elastic IP called web server IP.
And there's an attribute.
A required attribute inside of this resource called instance.
And this is where we associate that compute instance with this elastic IP address.
The syntax for referring to another resource.
Is what you see on the screen here.
It's its type, followed by the name of.
That resource followed by the attribute of that resource.
So here what we're doing is.
We have a resource of type AWS underscore instance.
The name of our resource is my underscore web underscore server and the attribute is the ID of that
compute instance.
And so we're assigning the value of that ID to the instance attribute of our elastic IP.
And this is how we create an implicit relationship.
So when it comes time to terraform this code, TerraForm is going to create that web server first.
And then create the elastic IP address and assign it to the web server.
Here is an example of an explicit dependency.
The main difference here is the depends on attribute that you see here at the bottom of the code block.
Here we are explicitly stating that this resource, this Web server, is dependent upon the availability
of this S3 storage bucket.
So what's going to happen here is that TerraForm will create the S3 storage bucket first.
And then create the my web server compute instance.
And that's pretty much all there is to it.
As far as resource dependencies go in the lab, we're going to cover creating both implicit and explicit
resource dependencies using AWS.

--- Lab 3 - Resource Dependencies ---

Hi everyone and welcome to Lab three on Resource dependencies.
TerraForm makes managing resource dependencies really easy.
In fact, most of the time you won't need to worry about the order in which resources are created.
TerraForm builds a dependency graph.
When you run TerraForm, Plan and TerraForm apply.
This determines which resources are dependent upon others in which you're not.
TerraForm is able to parallelize operations based upon this dependency graph, thereby being very efficient
at creating resources.
So two resources don't have a dependency.
TerraForm can create those in parallel.
And if there is a dependency.
TerraForm figures out which one needs to come first.
So as I mentioned in the lecture, TerraForm supports supports both implicit and explicit dependencies.
In this lab, we're going to work with with an implicit resource dependency to add a web server to an
AWS default subnet.
You will also use an explicit dependency to create a storage bucket for that web server.
This lab assumes that you have a default VPC or virtual private cloud with a default subnet created.
These default networking resources are automatically created for users when they sign up for an account.
There is a link in the lab guide that will that will tell you how to go about creating that default
VPC.
If you have already deleted it, some folks delete that default VPC.
So there is a link in the lab guide that will walk you through the steps on how to go about creating
that again.
Okay, so this lab assumes that we've destroyed all of our resources from the previous lab.
If you haven't already done that, run, TerraForm, destroy and make sure that all of your compute
resources have been destroyed in the AWS console.
So for this lab, like we've done with the last two labs, we're going to create a new TerraForm working
directory.
So I'm going to create a new directory called Lab three under my learn folder.
If I do a listing in here, I've got lab one, lab two and lab three.
Okay.
And inside my lab three, I'm going to reuse the files from lab two.
All right, so let's copy over our TerraForm files from lab two.
Okay.
And I'm also going to copy over the environment excuse me, the VARs file from lab to.
This is just going to save us some time.
Oops.
There we go.
All right, here we go.
We've got our compute, our provider, our Terraform.tf VARs and our variables.tf.
So make sure you bring all that all those TerraForm files forward from lab number two.
Now, do not bring along the state file.
Just bring along the code that you've written.
Let's go ahead and initialize this directory like we've done before with running a terraform init.
This will pull down the plug in.
Once the directory has been initialized, we're going to create a new file in our lab three directory.
I'm going to call this network.tf.
And inside of here, we're going to define a network resource that we're going to call the default subnet.
So the type is default subnet and we're going to give it a name, we're going to call it learn tf,
underscore, default, underscore subnet and then some curly braces.
And then inside of here, we're going to specify an availability zone.
So what we're really doing here is we're going to be leveraging the default subnet.
So what happens is you create an AWS account and for every region you get a default VPC.
And inside of that VPC there are sub default subnets that are created across all the availability zones
within a region.
There are more than one availability zones within a given region.
And so basically what happens is your account is bootstrapped with some basic networking.
Okay?
So what we're going to do here is we're not actually going to create a subnet with this command.
We are creating a reference to an existing subnet.
That's what we're doing right now.
Okay.
But we need to figure out we need to we need to ask TerraForm or Amazon for a subnet from a specific
availability zone.
Subnets don't span zones.
They live within a single zone.
So we're going to specify an attribute called availability zone and we are going to ask for us East
Dash one.
A Okay, so what this will do, this will this resource configuration will give us a reference to the
default subnet that lives in this zone.
Okay.
So go ahead and save this file.
And the next step is now to put our EC2 instance into this default subnet.
So open up the computer file in lab from lab three.
And inside the compute resource definition add a new attribute.
So we're going to specify the subnet, underscore ID attribute.
This is an attribute that's specific to an AWS instance.
This allows us to associate a compute resource or compute instance with a particular subnet, and the
value of this is going to be the ID of the subnet that we just referenced earlier, the default subnet
to do that, the syntax for referencing another resource is the resource type.
So we have an AWS underscore default underscore subnet.
This is the resource type, the name of that resource, which is learn underscore, default subnet.
And then the an attribute.
So we need the ID of this default subnet.
And that's just.id.
Okay.
So again, we have another interpolation.
TerraForm is going to extract the ID of the default subnet and associate it with the subnet ID field
here.
So in the end, what's going to happen is that TerraForm is going to see that there's a dependency here
between.
The web server and the default subnet.
So this is an implicit resource dependency that we've just defined.
So make sure you save all your files.
Go back to your terminal window.
Make sure that you have you have set your environment variables for your access and secret key.
Okay.
If you haven't done that, go back to lab two and and follow the steps there for setting your access
and secret keys.
So here's mine.
Okay.
I had a typo.
So run TerraForm plan.
TerraForm has determined that there's a dependency and it's going to create the default subnet first.
Well, it's not actually going to create it.
It's just creating a reference.
But you can see down here under our web server instance, that we have assigned a value to that subnet
ID So this is what's creating that implicit dependency.
So TerraForm is going to create the default subnet first and then create our web server and associate
it with that default subnet.
So go ahead and run TerraForm, apply.
Yes, to confirm.
And what you're seeing on the screen right now is that TerraForm first created that default subnet.
And is now creating the web server.
So once TerraForm is done creating our compute instance, let's go back into the AWS console and verify
that our server was indeed created in that default subnet.
So here I am in my AWS console.
Make sure that you're in the right region for this.
We were using the default US East one region.
And go under services.
And then under networking and content delivery, find VPC and click on this.
And then under VPC or virtual private cloud, click on subnets.
And you can see here we have a handful of default subnets.
Notice that each one of these is associated with a specific availability zone.
And here's the EC2 instance that we had just created, and we can see here the subnet ID, This represents
the default subnet that we created in the US East one, a availability zone.
So that's an example of an implicit resource dependency when we use a reference or a variable to that
resource to make an association.
Next we're going to declare an explicit dependency.
So there are some dependencies that TerraForm may not be aware of.
For example, there could be an application dependency on a particular resource that's defined at the
application level, not at the infrastructure level.
An example of this would be a bootstrap script that runs on a compute resource that pulls down software
from an object storage bucket.
In this scenario, we would want to ensure that the S3 object storage bucket was created first before
that compute instance was bootstrapped.
So let's go ahead and create a new TerraForm file.
Going to call this storage WTF.
So what we're going to do is we're going to define an object storage bucket.
And then create a dependency on that bucket for the compute resource.
The syntax for creating an object storage bucket.
Looks a little something like this.
I'm going to go ahead and.
Copy and paste the code here from the lab guide.
Okay.
So what I have here is.
A resource of type AWS, underscore S3 underscore bucket and I'm calling this learn TF dash bins.
I intentionally commented out the name of the bucket so you can give your bucket an actual name.
This will actually appear in the fully qualified domain name or public DNS for that bucket.
These names need to be globally unique.
So if you pick something, you have to pick something that's globally unique across all of Amazon Cloud.
However, if you comment out or leave the bucket name out, Amazon will just generate a unique name
for you.
So that's what we're doing here.
I'm assigning an ACL to this bucket public read so the public can only read from this from this bucket.
They can't write to that bucket.
And here's another example of an output variable.
So what this output variable is going to do, it's going to spit out the domain name for our S3 bucket.
And remember to refer to another resource, we specify the format is the resource type.
Followed by a period followed by the name of that resource.
Followed by an attribute.
And so the bucket underscore domain underscore name is an attribute of the S3 bucket resource type.
Okay.
So this TerraForm file is going to create us our S3 bucket.
And then when we run TerraForm apply, we should get the URL to our bucket.
So now let's go ahead and add an explicit dependency on this bucket.
So go back to the computer file.
And we're going to use the Depends loops.
On attribute and depends on takes a list.
Actually the lists are.
Comma delimited values that are that are enclosed in square brackets.
And so what we're going to pass in here for the list is the name of the resource that that this web
server is dependent on.
And the format for this is we're going to do AWS.
Underscore S3 underscore bucket.
This is the resource type and then the name.
Of the bucket.
So this is where we're defining our explicit dependency.
So before we go ahead and run TerraForm plan, let's go ahead and destroy the resources that we just
created.
So run a TerraForm.
Destroy.
And confirm.
Yes, to destroy.
What I want to demonstrate is the order in which resources are going to get created.
Okay.
So with our resources destroyed, let's go ahead and run TerraForm plan.
What I want to demonstrate is the order in which resources are going to be created.
So.
Here we have the default subnet that's being created.
Then we have a web server.
It.
So this is showing us all the resources that are going to be created, not necessarily the order in
which they're going to be created.
So now run, TerraForm, apply.
And then.
Yes, to confirm.
Now we see the order in which those resources are going to be created.
We can see here that the default subnet and the S3 bucket were created first.
And now the web server instance is being created last.
And we could see down here at the bottom that our bucket.
Has been outputted because of the.
The output variable that we defined.
And you can actually go to this bucket on your browser.
And there it is.
There's our bucket.
So the purpose of this was really to demonstrate defining implicit and explicit resource dependencies.
And we can do that using the variable reference assignment or a depends on an explicit assignment using
the depends on attribute for a given resource.

--- Provisioners ---

Welcome, everyone, to the lecture on TerraForm Provisioners.
In this lecture, I'm going to tell you about how we can use TerraForm Provisioners to bootstrap and
initialize compute resources.
So Provisioners are mechanisms for bootstrapping or performing some sort of initial configuration on
a resource?
This typically involves running some script on the node or resource to install and configure software
packages.
After that resource has been created.
In the real world where configuration management tools like puppet or chef are used to manage software
on that node, a provisioner would be used to perhaps install the chef client or puppet or some other
agents on that node, and then those tools or agents would take over managing that server.
So really, Provisioners are here to support the initial bootstrapping of a resource.
So here is a list of provisioners that are supported by TerraForm.
TerraForm supports many different types.
Some of the more popular configuration management tools are listed here and are supported out of the
box like Chef and Salt.
The others, like file local exec remote execution are used to stage files on those resources and to
run those scripts on those resources.
So let's walk through some of these examples in a little more detail.
Provisioners are defined inside of a resource using a provisioner block.
In this example, we are creating a local execution provisioner inside of a compute resource.
This provisioner will run commands local to the machine running the TerraForm client.
So if you're running TerraForm CLI at home on your Windows Mac or Linux box, the local exec will execute
those commands on your box and not the remote resource.
So here the private IP address is being written to a text file on the TerraForm client host machine.
Now, remote execution Provisioners let you run scripts on the remote resource.
The first example listed here lets you define commands inside the provisioner.
So inline commands are fine for when you have just a couple of commands to run.
But when you need to run more complex commands, you can supply a shell script to the provisioner.
The provisioner will then upload that script to the host.
And executed.
The file provisioner is used to copy files to a resource from the local TerraForm client machine.
This is useful for staging perhaps scripts or configuration files like an Apache web config.
In this case, the provisioner of type file is specified in the resource along with a source and destination
attribute.
The source attribute tells TerraForm where to find the file on the client machine, and the destination
attribute determines where on the resource to copy the file.
At this point, you may be wondering how does TerraForm connect to the resource to copy files or to
run remote scripts?
We must define a connection in our TerraForm that tells TerraForm how to log into that resource.
This connection is then associated either with a resource or a specific provision or block within that
resource.
The first example shown here can use SSH or win and a username and password to connect to the resource.
The second example at the bottom of the screen uses SSH and a private key rather than a username and
password.
Connections can be associated with an entire resource, meaning that all provisioners defined within
that resource will use the same connection.
In this example, we have defined an SSH connection.
The file provisioner will use this connection to connect as well as any other provisioners that we've
defined.
Connections can also be scoped to a provisioner such as this example here, where we have a connection
declared within a provisioner.
One use case for having multiple connections defined is maybe you want to connect as root or privileged
user to set up user accounts on the machine and then you would want to connect to that machine as that
new user to install and configure software and thereby disabling root logins.
So this is a more secure way to bootstrap and load software.
So that concludes the lecture on Provisioners.
The Provisioners lab is going to cover configuring an SSH connection using SSH keys that will generate.
And then we will install and configure an Apache web server using both the file and remote execution.
Provisioners.

--- Lab 4.1 - Creating an SSH Key Pair ---

Welcome to lab number four, TerraForm Provisioners.
TerraForm Provisioners are used to perform actions either locally or remotely when creating a resource.
Provisioners are most often used to bootstrap a compute instance which may involve deploying configuration
management software such as chef, client or puppet, or even just performing a Yum update or staging
static configuration files.
So in this lab, we're going to deploy, install and configure Apache on our web server.
And to do that, we're going to create an SSH connection and authenticate using a public private.
So in order to remotely connect to our web server, we must first configure a pair of SSH keys.
The steps for creating the SSH keys are in the lab guide in Linux.
It's fairly straightforward.
In Windows you'll have to use a tool like putty to do this.
And there is a link in the lab guide on how to use Putty Gen to generate a public private key pair to
be used for SSH into the compute resource.
So in our terminal window.
Let's go ahead and create an SSH key pair that we're going to use and the syntax for this is SSH key
gen.
Dash t which specifies the type of the SSH key we're going to create.
Dash B is the size of the key.
And then Dash F, we're going to specify a file name for this key pair.
So I'm going to call it underscore RSA.
And this will generate the public private RSA key pair.
I'm not going to specify a password, so just hit enter here, hit enter again to confirm.
And here we go.
We have a key that's been generated.
I'm going to do a long listing here and we can see we have the public key.
That's that's the file that ends in pub.
This is the key that we're going to upload to our compute resource.
And the file without the pub is our private key.
This is the one that you have to protect.
This is private.
Let's create another lab for directory like we've done with the previous labs.
So I'm going to create a lab for directory.
And in that lab for directory, we are going to bring forward all of the TerraForm files.
So we're going to reuse the TerraForm files from Lab three.
So to do that, I'm going to do a lab three slash TF.
Lab three hours.
Okay.
So here we have our compute, our network provider storage variables and our Terraform.tf r file.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to create a new TerraForm file called Key Pairs tf.
Key pairs.
WTF.
This TerraForm file is going to contain our key pair definition that we're going to use, and this is
yet another AWS resource that we can define using TerraForm.
The cool thing about defining a key pair as a resource in AWS is that I can use this key pair to configure
all my compute resources.
So this is a great way to to provide SSH based authentication to all of your compute resources.
So the syntax for defining an AWS key pair is we're using the resource keyword here.
The resource type is AWS, underscore key, underscore pair.
And then let's give it a name.
I'm going to call this my deployer key pair.
And this is the key pair that we're only going to use for deploying software.
Required attributes are key name.
So we'll give this a name.
I'm going to call this my bootstrap key.
And then the other required attribute is the location of the public key.
So where on the file system am I going to pull the public key from?
And this is local.
This is on your machine.
This is where you're going to be running the TerraForm client.
So we're going to use the file, the built in file command.
This built in file function will load files on the file system.
And then we have to specify the path to our.
To our key that we just generated.
So I'm going to copy.
I created this in my learn folder.
Okay.
And it's the public key.
Okay.
So what this what we're doing here is we're creating an AWS key pair resource using TerraForm.
This is going to create a key pair inside of AWS with this specific public key.
Okay?
This is the public key that's that I just generated using key gen that lives on my file system and we're
giving it the name bootstrap key.
So go ahead and save this file.
Now we're going to associate this public key with our compute resource.
So we'll open up the compute and make sure that you're in the lab.
Four directory, not the lab three.
And then somewhere in here we'll specify another attribute.
Key, underscore name and the name of our key.
We're going to use a reference, a resource reference.
So it's remember, it's resource type, which is underscore key pair dot, the name of that resource,
which was deployer dash key pair.
Dot.
And then we need the attribute that has the name of that key pair.
So if I go back to key pairs.
TF Here's the attribute.
Okay.
And then there's the value.
Now, I could hardcode the value, but we don't want to do that.
We want to continue using resource references and variables.
So we want to reference this attribute.
Key underscore name.
Okay.
And this is also another implicit dependency.
So when we run TerraForm apply, TerraForm again is going to see this this implicit resource dependency
and create the key pair first and then the compute resource.
And that is something resource dependencies is what we covered in lab three.
So save the compute TF file.

--- Lab 4.2 - Allow SSH Traffic ---

The next thing we need to do is we need to enable SSH traffic to our compute resource.
By default.
Ingress over Port 22 is disabled.
So recall that we are deploying our compute resource into a default subnet.
We need to create a network rule that will allow traffic into that compute resource.
To do that.
Let's go ahead and edit the network TTF file that we have under Lab four.
And what we're going to do here is we're going to create an ingress rule, an ingress security rule.
In rules are associated with security groups in AWS.
So in the lab guide, this is a rather long code block, but I'm going to copy and paste it from the
lab guide.
And if you're following along in the lab guide, this is step 2.1 in lab four.
So if you are using the default VPC, there is actually a default AWS security group.
So what we're going to do here is ingress and egress.
Rules for network traffic are controlled using AWS security groups.
What this resource is going to do is we're going to create a new security group called Web Server Security
group or group.
And I have two rules defined in here.
I have an ingress rule which is going to allow traffic into the security group.
On Port 22 Protocols TCP and the Cidr Block represents the destination Cidr Block.
So this is going to allow Port 22 to anywhere.
And I have an egress rule.
The egress rule is going to allow traffic.
It's going to specify what traffic can leave that security group.
In this case, we're going to allow all traffic to the Internet.
There's no restrictions on on traffic leaving the security group and going out to the Internet.
That's what this egress rule defines.
The next thing we need to do is we need to associate our compute resource with the security group.
We need to place our compute resource into this group so that these rules can apply to our compute resource.
To do that.
Go back over to the compute TF file.
Okay.
And there's an attribute that allows us to associate this compute instance with a security group.
And the name of that attribute is VPC, Underscore security group IDs.
And this takes a list of security group IDs.
And we're again, we're going to use a resource reference here.
So remember, the list syntax is square brackets.
Okay.
Quotes.
And then we're going to use interpolation again to refer to the security group ID.
So the syntax here is the the resource type, which is AWS underscore security underscore group dot,
the name of our security group, which is web underscore server underscore group.
And the attribute that we need is ID.
This is going to return the ID of the security group.
So we have a list here containing only one one value.
Let me make that a little bit bigger so we can see the full line.
Save your file.
So.
So what we have here is we have this VPC security group IDs.
Again, this is another implicit implicit resource dependency.
This line, line 11 of the code will associate or place this web server inside of the Web server security
group.
Let's go back to our terminal window.
Go into your lab four directory and run TerraForm init again since we created our new lab directory.
Oh, and make sure that all of your resources are destroyed.
We want to start fresh here.
So if you need to run, TerraForm, destroy.
Go ahead and run.
TerraForm, Destroy.
Now run a TerraForm plan.
And let's scroll up and just make sure that we're creating everything that we we expect to be created.
So we have a default subnet that we're going to be using.
That's from Lab three.
Here is our web server that we're going to be creating and we can see we have a couple of references
here.
We have a subnet ID.
So we're going to place our web server in our default subnet.
We have a key name that we've associated.
And then we have a VPC security group ID.
And it says computed here because we don't know what the ID is yet.
That's going to come come from the security group that we're going to create.
Let me go ahead and just make sure I've saved all my files.
And then here's the key pair.
So the file command actually loaded the contents of our public key.
And so here are the contents of my public key.
The S3 bucket.
And if I scroll down a little further, here is the Web server security group that we're going to create,
and we've got a little output of all the ingress and egress rules that are going to be created.
So that all looks correct.
Go ahead and run, TerraForm.
Apply and TerraForm Apply will go ahead and create the resources in the proper order.
Type in.
Yes.
To confirm.
All right.
So now that all of our resources have been created, we can see here that we have our bucket URL and
we have our Web server, public IP.
Okay?
So every time we recreate our resources, we're going to get different values for the ones that are
dynamic or computed.
So here we have a different public IP address.

--- Lab 4.3 - Verify Connectivity ---

So our EC2 instance is up and running and we with our new public key, let's go ahead and see if we
can log into this EC2 instance.
The way we're going to do that is we're going to specify the username.
We're going to log in as there's a default user that gets created on every EC2 instance.
And this is the EC2 dash user username.
And we're going to use our private key to connect.
So the syntax to do this is ssh dash I for identity file.
So we're going to specify the path to our private key.
Followed by the user.
EC2 user at and then we're going to specify the public IP address of our compute resource.
And then go hit, enter and then hit.
Yes.
To confirm the fingerprint.
And voila.
So we have just SSH into our web server for the first time.
Okay.
You're probably asking me, Well, what the heck does this have to do with Provisioners?
Well, we needed to be able to set up a public and private key for our compute resource, and I wanted
to confirm that it actually does indeed work.
Okay, so we have defined a public private key pair.
We've enabled SSH traffic into that compute resource using a security group and an ingress rule.

--- Lab 4.4 - Install Apache using a Provisioner ---

And now we're going to define a provisioner that will install Apache and the provisioner is going to
use the public private key that we just set up.
So let's go ahead and exit log out of that server.
And switch over and go back to the compute file.
And so in here is where we're going to define our provisioner.
We want to install Apache on this machine.
And so I'm going to define a remote.
Exec provisioner and we're going to use an inline provisioner.
Actually, we're going to just list the commands that we want to execute right here.
And it takes a list.
So let's see, I'm going to copy this from.
From the lab guide.
And I'll show you how to put all this into a script file.
That way you're managing the script file separately and not managing the script inside of your TerraForm
code.
So you can see here in our inline provisioner, we are installing Apache.
We are starting or enabling the service, and then we're creating a group and a dedicated user, an
Apache user that's going to be part of that group and then changing permissions.
On where the static Web pages are going to be held.
So all these commands will be executed on the EC2 instance when it's created.
So the next step is to configure the remote exec provisioner and tell it how to connect to our web server.
For that.
We're going to define a connection and we're going to do that outside of the provisioner.
So we're going to do it at the same level as the provisioner.
So that way this connection can be used for other provisioners inside.
Of the resource.
And to define a connection, we specify the type it's going to be SSH, and then the user we want to
connect as the EC oops EC two user and we're going to use a private key for authentication.
And this is going to be again, we're going to use the built in file function to load the private key.
So this is going to be home, parents.
This is the private key, not the public key.
Okay.
Go ahead and save the file to access our web server over the Internet.
We must open up port 80, which is the default port for all web traffic for all Http traffic.
So that's what Apache is going to be listening on and that's the port that we need to allow in.
So to do that, we're going to add another ingress rule to our security group.
So go ahead and click or open up that network file again and I'm going to copy this block.
And paste it so you can add as many ingress rules as you'd like.
And we're to change 22 to 80 and you can leave everything else the same.
So go ahead and save this.
Save all your files.
And back in the lab for directory.
I'm going to run a TerraForm plan.
Oh, I got a syntax error.
What do I have that's out of place?
Oh, my apologies.
I've got to put the path in quotes.
For the private key.
Okay.
Go ahead and run TerraForm plan.
Now, notice here that when I ran TerraForm plan, the only change that is going to be made is the new
ingress rule for Port 80.
Notice how adding the provisioner did not change the TerraForm plan.
If you want to Provisioners are only executed when the resource is first created.
And adding or removing a provisioner from a compute resource does not affect the TerraForm plan.
So if we want to demonstrate the execution of the provisioner, we really need to destroy the resource
first and then recreate it.
This is just one area that TerraForm does not automatically assume you want to do so.
So to proceed, we're going to run TerraForm Destroy, and then we will run TerraForm plan and then
apply.
And now go ahead and run TerraForm plan.
Okay, I'm going to scroll up.
So we're creating five resources.
Which is about right.
And then run TerraForm apply.
Then yes, to confirm once TerraForm is done creating the server, it will start executing the provisioner.
You will actually see TerraForm Connect using the username and private key and then running each of
the.
Inline commands that we specified.
So here we go.
Here we see.
We're connecting to the remote.
Host via SSH.
Now it's running a Yum install and it will start the service and create the users and groups that we
need.
Awesome.
So what we have just done is we have bootstrapped our web server with Apache and created some users.
Now, if I were to log in, I'm going to log in again.
So specify my private key.
I want to confirm that Apache is indeed running and that the directory var slash dub dub dub has the
right permissions on it.
Just so, just so that you see that at home and you and you actually believe that this is this is real
and not make believe.
Okay, here we go.
All right.
So I'm going to do a.
Uh, let's see.
Is it status?
I always get the bat backwards.
Okay.
So I did a system control status on Apache and it is up and running.
And if we take a look at.
I can see that the dub dub dub directory is owned by the Apache user.
And group dub.
Dub dub.
And that's what we did have done over here in the code.
We we created a group and then we added users to that group.
All right.
I'm going to exit out of here and you should be able to I'm going to copy the copy, the public IP address,
copy the public IP address, and open up your browser.
And and hit that.
Hit that IP.
And you should receive the default test page for Apache.
So that's awesome.
So what we have just done is we created an EC2 instance.
We installed the Apache on it.
We poked a hole in the network to allow port 80 traffic to that server and here we are.

--- Lab 4.5 - Upload Files using a File Provisioner ---

So next, I'm going to show you how to deploy files using the file provisioner.
So if we didn't want this test page, a cool example of this is if we had a static home page that we
wanted to upload, that we wanted to stage during the terraforming process so we can do that using a
file provisioner.
So let's go back to our lab four directory and I'm going to create a new file called Index.
Dot HTML.
Actually, I'm going to call it something a little bit different.
We're going to use what's in the lab guide.
I'm going to call it learn TF dot index dot HTML.
And then in here, I'm going to specify some very, very basic HTML.
Okay.
And save this.
So this is now local on our machine.
What we're going to do is define a file provisioner that will copy this file to our web server.
And to do that, go back to your compute tf.
And define another resource.
Excuse me?
Another provisioner in here of type file.
And file takes two attributes.
One is source.
And here we're not going to load the contents of the file.
We're actually just going to specify a reference to the file directly.
So the file function here actually loads the contents of the file, whereas if I just specify the name
of the file, it's TerraForm will actually just use that as a reference instead.
So we don't need the contents of the file.
We need the whole file shipped.
So let's learn index.html and then destination.
Equals.
This is the location on the web server where we want to copy the file to.
And recall that we created the var dub.
Dub dub.
Um, HTML index.html.
So a word of note here.
Var dub dub dub slash HTML is the default static content directory for Apache.
Okay.
And notice, so we're going to copy the learn file over to this and we're also renaming it.
So when we copy it over to our server, it's going to be called index.html, not learn dot index.html.
So now go ahead and save these changes.
And yes, we're going to have to destroy first and then reapply.
So with our resources destroyed, go ahead and run TerraForm plan again.
And then terraform apply if all if all looks well.
Okay.
And we can see here that we provisioned a file.
So this doesn't give us any more information than that.
But it did provision a file.
So what we can do now is let's confirm, let's check out our new home page.
So copy that, new public IP address.
Paste that into your browser.
And that is exactly what you should see on your screen as well.
So awesome.
So we've got our file provisioner working, so this is great.
If you've got some initial static configuration files that you want to upload, it doesn't have to be
a web page, it could be an Apache configuration file, Httpd.conf or some other config file.

--- Lab 4.6 - Using an External Script with a Remote Execution Provisioner ---

All right.
So now that we've done that, let's let me show you how to take these commands, these inline provisioners
and put them in a shell script and use the shell script instead.
So to do that, let's go ahead and create our Shell script first.
So I'm going to create a new file in my lab four directory.
I'm going to call this.
Bootstrap.
And I'm going to copy it from the lab guide.
I've got the script in line in the lab guide.
We'll just copy it.
Placed it in here.
There we go.
Copy and pasting was never so hard.
Okay, so these are the exact same commands from our inline script.
This is just a regular shell script.
We've got our our header up here and then all the commands that we're going to execute.
This is very simple, very basic.
Obviously you can write very complex shell scripts to do all sorts of wonderful, fantastic things.
And so this is just meant to be a demonstration here.
Okay.
We've got our bootstrap that script created.
Save it.
The next thing.
Oh, word of note.
Uh, I'm going to open up my bootstrap shell script again.
Be careful.
If you are editing files on Windows, you need to make sure that you configure line feeds for line endings
and not crlf.
So I'm using Atom.
You can see down here, this is probably very small on your screen.
I'll try to zoom in when I edit this.
I'm going to click on this.
I need to switch this over to line feed.
This is what Unix uses.
I've had issues where if the shell script is an edited in Windows by default, windows will add a crlf
to the end of the file.
And then when you try to run that script on a in a Linux environment, the shell has a hard time interpreting
it because the the line endings are all wrong.
So make sure that you're you're editing it in with line feed for the ending only.
Or you can always use a little utility to strip out the clefs and replace them with just line feeds.
So anyway, this tells me down here that we're using line feed for, for endings.
Okay, save that.
Now the next thing we're going to do is we're going to replace our inline provisioner with our script.
We're going to copy the script to the server, and then we're going to run the script.
To do that, I'm going to use another file provisioner.
So before the remote exec and these things are executed in order.
This is the only thing in TerraForm where commands are executed in order.
So provisioner file.
Whoops.
File.
And we are going to stage our bootstrap script.
So source equals bootstrap dot.
And then our destination.
We're going to place it in a temp directory.
Attempt bootstrap.
Okay.
And now we're going to replace our all these commands with with our new Shell script.
So what I want to do is after we've copied this script, I need to make it executable.
So I'm going to do a pseudo change mod.
Plus X on the script.
And then I'm going to run that script.
Okay, then I'll delete the rest of this.
Now, this is the preferred method for copying shell scripts to a server and running them remotely.
This allows you to specifying a script as part of the inline remote exec provisioner allows you to pass
in parameters.
There is another attribute called scripts and you can pass in a series of scripts, but you can't pass
in any command line arguments or parameters to those scripts when you're using the scripts attribute,
which takes a list of scripts.
So in this method you cannot pass in arguments.
So the inline method is better if you need if you need to pass in arguments to your scripts.
Okay, so we've got our file provisioner for copying over our bootstrap script.
Then we have a remote exec provisioner that will execute that script and we still have our other file
provisioner that's going to copy our learn index.html file over.
All the while, all three provisioners defined here are using this connection that we've defined here.
So I'm going to save all my files.
And now again, we're going to run TerraForm Destroy.
I know.
Whoops.
Well, it looks like I forgot.
A comma.
Okay.
Yes.
To confirm the destroy.
Now go ahead and run TerraForm plan.
All looks well.
Run, TerraForm, Apply.
And then.
Yes, to confirm.
Excellent.
So we can see that our bootstrap script worked just fine.
It performed all the same commands as the inline script that we used earlier.
So let's go ahead and just verify that everything still works.
I'm going to copy my my public, my new public IP address into my browser window.
There it is.
All right.
So everything still works.
So to sum up, what we've done in this lab is I've shown you how to use both the file and remote exec
Provisioners to bootstrap a compute resource.
And we did this by creating an SSH connection to that compute resource and using SSH key based authentication.

--- Terraform Data Sources ---

Welcome to the lecture on TerraForm Data Sources.
Data sources allow data to be fetched or computed for use elsewhere in your TerraForm configurations.
Data sources allow you to build your TerraForm configurations on top of information that lives outside
of your TerraForm.
So as an example, a data source can represent a list of available Amazon machine images, for instance,
or it can represent a list of filtered compute resources that were created outside of your TerraForm.
So just like resource types, data sources are specific to a TerraForm provider.
So here is an example of an AWS instance data source.
The data keyword is used to define a data source.
This is followed by the type of data source.
In this case underscore instances.
And Web servers is the name that we've given this particular data source, which is completely arbitrary.
Everything inside this code block is specific to the instance data source.
Other types of data sources will have different setups of attributes and configurations.
So certainly check the online documentation for those data sources.
This data source is fetching a list of running or stopped compute instances that we've tagged as web
servers.
So this data source is essentially essentially saying, look, for instances that are tagged as Web
servers and then filter.
On those instances that have a group ID of this value.
And we only want instances that are running or stopped.
So essentially, we're defining a set of search criteria in this data source.
And when TerraForm runs, it will connect to AWS through your configured provider and look for instances
that meet this criteria.
And it will return a list.
Of those Web servers.
And once we have that that list, this data source can be queried to get access to that list and attributes
of those Web servers that are in that list.
And so here's an example of how we would actually use a data source.
The last slide showed us how to define one.
This is the syntax right here.
For accessing a data source using an interpolation.
First, we specify data to state that we want to access a data source followed by the type of that data
source, followed by the name of that data source.
And lastly, the attribute we want out of that data source.
So in this bottom box, we have an example where we are assigning an elastic IP address to our web servers.
And we are using the AWS instances, Web servers, data source to do this.
Now this data source is returning a list of web servers and we're using both the the length built in
function to determine how many elastic IP addresses we need.
And then we are using the count index.
Interpolation that we talked about in the previous lecture to assign an elastic IP addresses to each
and every web server.

--- Terraform Modules ---

Hey, welcome to the lecture on TerraForm Modules.
So TerraForm modules are a way to organize your code into self-contained packages.
These packages improve organization and allow for reusability.
An example that we will look at in the labs is the AWS VPC module.
The VPC module allows us to create a fairly complete traditional three tiered network deployment, complete
with a Nat gateway and a VPN gateway.
And we can do all this just by importing the module with a minimal set of flags and configuration parameters.
The module itself handles the creation of over 25 resources and all we had to do was specify a Cidr
range and a few other flags.
So modules are pretty powerful.
Another great use case for modules is that they allow for the standardization of deployments within
your org.
Imagine, if you will, a networking and security team that is responsible for the network perimeter.
They could create a standard network deployment by publishing a network perimeter module that you could
then include in your TerraForm code.
So here is how you would include a module in your terraform using the module resource.
The name here.
Mymodule is completely arbitrary and it'll be used by you whenever you want to reference any attributes
inside that module.
The source attribute is what's important here.
Source tells TerraForm what module to pull and from where.
We'll see in just a moment all the different sources that are supported.
The version attribute allows us to specify a specific version of the module.
Lastly, the config here represents any required or optional parameters that need to be passed into
that module.
These are typically input variables that are defined by the module.
And so here is that specific example.
We are configuring a module named VPC, which is a completely arbitrary name.
The source attribute tells TerraForm what module to pull and from where TerraForm is first going to
look in the TerraForm Registry to find this particular module.
And that's exactly where this this VPC module is located.
The TerraForm Registry is a public registry that that can be found at TerraForm IO.
Other types of sources are supported, and I'll show you those on the next slide.
The rest of the attributes here are the input variables for the module.
These actually configure the module in this example.
The VPC module creates a complete virtual private cloud with public and private subnets.
Here we are telling the module what Cidr ranges to use, what zones to use, and whether or not we want
a Nat and a VPN gateway to be created.
So here's a list of various sources that TerraForm supports.
As I mentioned, we have the TerraForm Registry, which is a a public repo for.
For modules that can be shared across with the world, essentially.
You can also use a private registry.
You can create your own private registry as well as use git hub and git of course, and even S3 buckets.
We can store our modules out on S3.
And last but not least, the local file system.
And this is the one that that most folks use for local development today.
So what is a module?
We have been working with modules already in the labs.
But you probably didn't even know it yet.
A module is merely a directory containing TerraForm files.
Technically, we have been creating what are called root modules in the labs.
Each time we create a new lab directory so that working directory that you are in your current working
directory when you're running TerraForm, that is technically a root module.
There is no hard requirement for a directory structure or naming requirements when it comes to creating
a module.
However, there is a recommended structure and naming convention and it's really only there to support
the public TerraForm registry.
And this is to promote consistency and compatibility and, and enable, you know, streamlined documentation
and make it easy for folks to find what they're looking for.
And modules may be nested inside of other modules, but only a root module or a top level module is
required.
So here's an example of a very minimal module.
We have a top level directory named minimal module, which contains our module.
Inside the module directory we have a Readme markdown file and three terraform files main variables
and outputs.
This is a typical layout, but again, nothing here is required.
This is a very flat directory structure.
And here's a more complete example that has nested modules.
We can see we have the Readme markdown file, the main.tf.
Main terraform file variables output.
And then we have nested modules beneath that followed by examples.
Examples containing usage examples of those modules.
In the Modules lab, we are going to create a VPC, a complete VPC using the VPC module hosted on the
TerraForm Registry.
And then we will create our own module and I'll show you how to use that.

--- Lab 6.1 - Using the AWS VPC Module ---

So welcome to lab number six on TerraForm Modules.
TerraForm modules allow you to neatly package and organize TerraForm code for reuse.
In this lab, we will create resources by using the already built TerraForm modules hosted in the TerraForm
Registry.
Most modules define required input variables that must be set when including those modules into your
TerraForm code.
So in this lab we're going to create a virtual private cloud using the AWS TerraForm module that's hosted
on the TerraForm Registry.
And we're going to define some of these input variables that will allow us to easily and quickly create
a fully complete VPC.
And then lastly, I'm going to walk you through how to create your own module.
So in this lab, we're going to pull down the VPC module from AWS.
If you look in the lab guide, there is a link to the TerraForm Registry, which I'm going to open up
right now.
So here is the TerraForm Registry.
You can go to registry Dot TerraForm, dot IO.
This is a public registry where publishers can can upload and publish different modules for reuse so
anybody can come here and search for particular modules that do certain things and then incorporate
those into their TerraForm code.
Much like a if you're familiar with Docker Hub or even GitHub for that matter, we can essentially clone
or pull down a module and include that in our code.
And the one that we're going to be working with today and you can see it here on the home page is the
the virtual private cloud module from AWS.
So if I click on this, you know, this is kind of the home page for this particular module, but this
module is going to essentially allow us to to quickly stand up a complete VPC.
So rather than having to manually create our virtual private cloud and all of our public and private
subnets and our security groups and compute instances and set up routing for our Internet and Nat gateways.
This module is a quick way to bootstrap a a traditional, you know, interior type of environment.
And if we scroll down a little bit, we can see that there's some some usage documentation on how to
go about configuring.
Let me see if I can zoom in here so you can see this a little bit better.
And here is the syntax for using this particular module.
They're giving this the module, the name of VPC source, and this is what we're going to include in
our TerraForm code.
The source attribute tells us or tells TerraForm which module to pull and from where.
And so this path here is specific to the TerraForm Registry.
And then everything else that follows the source attribute is essentially a required input variable
for configuring the module.
So let's get started Using this module.
I'm going to go back to my terminal window.
And we're going to create a new directory.
This is Lab six, so I'm going to create a lab six directory.
Actually, I'm going to create a few different directories.
I'm going to do Lab six.
And then VPC module.
So within Lab six, we're going to be creating modules or contained within within their own directories.
So if you recall from the lecture, we have been up until this point, we've been working with root
modules or root modules, kind of the default module.
Think of it as the current working directory that you're working in here in Lab six, we're going to
create a sub directory for the VPC work that we're going to do.
And then when we create our own module, we'll create a dedicated directory for that custom module as
well.
Okay.
So in the VPC module directory.
We're going to create a new file.
And we're going to call this VPC, Cjtf.
Okay.
Inside of here is where we're going to reference our module.
So I'm going to copy and paste the code from the lab guide.
This is going to look a lot similar to the usage example on the TerraForm Registry website.
But I'm going to walk through this code a little bit here.
So we declare the module using the module stanza and the name of the module we're calling it VPC.
We can call this whatever we like.
Okay, this is the name of the module that we're giving it.
This is completely our choice and this will be used to reference this resource elsewhere in our TerraForm
Code.
The source specifies the path to the TerraForm module.
We can also specify a version using the version attribute.
So if there is a specific version of the module that we would want to use, then we would specify that
here by not specifying a version.
TerraForm was going to pull down the latest VPC module.
So in a production environment it is a best practice to obviously work off of of well known stable versions.
The next attribute is an input variable to the VPC module.
This is providing a name for our VPC.
And then we define a Cidr block.
This is a required attribute.
So when we create our virtual private cloud, we have to specify a block of IPS or a Cidr block.
And then down below on line seven, we have our availability zones that that, that tell TerraForm or
the VPC module where to create this VPC.
So we're going to be creating this VPC in the US East one availability of availability zones.
Excuse me.
And then we're defining a list or a set of private and public subnets.
And these flags down here for the Nat and VPN, VPN Gateway.
Tell the VPC module whether or not we want a Nat gateway and a VPN gateway.
So I'm setting these to true here.
Okay, so go ahead and save this file.
Now, the VPC module does not make any assumptions about the provider configuration, so it doesn't
there are no secret.
And access keys, no authentication details that are hardcoded.
We need to define those provider details outside of the module.
So to do that in this file.
Now, in the past labs we've created a provider file and we could certainly do that again here as well.
But just for the sake of simplicity and cleanliness, I'm just going to redefine our provider in this
file.
So in the lab guide, I'm going to copy and paste the provider configuration.
And bring that over to my VPC TerraForm file.
So this should look awfully familiar to you.
We've got our axis key variable and our secret key variable and then our provider defined below that.
So I'm going to save this.
File.
So cool.
So this file is going to create our virtual private cloud.
Next, we want to deploy an AWS instance into our virtual private cloud.
So we're going to add a web server.
Okay.
Like we've done in the past.
So in the past labs, we've created a web server resource that was automatically deployed to our default
VPC.
Here we are defining our own VPC and we want to create a web server inside of that in one of our private
subnets.
So to do that, we're going to create a new EC2 instance resource.
I'm going to copy and paste this from the lab guide.
Okay.
Now, this should look very similar to what you've seen in the previous labs.
We're defining an instance resource.
We're giving it the name web server.
And I've kind of cheated here and I've hardcoded the army for the moment.
This is specific to the US East region.
And then instance type is t two dot micro.
And note here the subnet ID, So we want to create this web server in one of our subnets.
In this case, we're going to deploy this into a public subnet.
I know I said private subnet earlier, but it looks here like we're deploying this web server into a
public subnet.
So the way that we can get access to the public subnet information inside of the module is we use the,
the, the, the interpolation, the format for that is the module is module dot, the module type which
is or the module name which is VPC, followed by the attribute inside of that module which is public
subnets.
That's that this right here, this public subnets.
Okay.
Maps to this public subnets over here.
All right.
Now up here, this attribute is a list of Cidr ranges.
So and each one of these Cidr ranges is a subnet.
So this list is going to tell TerraForm to create three public subnets in our VPC.
To get access to one of those subnets.
We use the index notation to get the first subnet in that list.
Okay, so this is how we reference an attribute within a module.
It goes module dot the name of that module dot some attribute.
All right.
Go ahead and save this.
Oh, one more thing.
If you don't want to use the US East region or you can't use the US East region, you will need to change
the the zones up here to match the region you want to use.
And then obviously change the the region down here for the provider and the Ami as well to match the
region.
So we can certainly do this with maps and lookups, obviously to simplify things.
But but for this lab, I'm just I'm just hard coding these values for just to demonstrate the use of
the module.
All right.
So go ahead and save this file.
Okay.
Now back in our terminal window.
Going to run a terraform init.
Anytime we create a new directory.
For TerraForm.
We have to initialize it and then run TerraForm plan.
Cool.
Now have a look at the number of resources that this VPC module is going to create.
I mean, we're creating 30 modules.
One of those is ours.
Excuse me, 30 resources.
One of those is our web server that we that we're explicitly creating.
But the module itself is creating 29 resources.
Okay.
And all we had to do is write.
I don't know, looking at this, it was 13 lines of code to generate basically a complete virtual data
center.
I mean, that's pretty that's pretty awesome.
So let's go ahead and run TerraForm plan.
Oops, sorry.
TerraForm, apply and watch this thing in action.
Type.
Yes, to confirm.
So once all those resources are done, I'm going to log into the AWS console and have a look around
to see what was actually created.
So make sure that when you're logging into the console, that you're you're logging into the region
where you created your resources.
So us East one is Northern Virginia, then I'm going to come over here and have a look at let's look
at VPC.
Virtual private cloud.
And we're going to see some resources in here that are that are part of the default VPC.
But we should see just we're going to see everything else that we created using the module.
Okay.
So under VPC.
Oh, and we can look so by region we can see that we've got two vpcs.
One of them is the default one and one of them is, is the one that we just created.
We can see that there's 12 subnets, six route tables, two internet gateways.
So there are quite a few resources here.
So if I click on Vpcs.
We can see we have the default one and then we can see we have the learn VPC.
This is the one that our module created.
And you can poke around and and look at everything.
All these subnets are tagged with our our learn VPC prefix.
Okay.
And everything else here is part of the default VPC and you can have a look at the Cidr blocks too.
So the Cidr ranges for these subnets match what was in our TerraForm code.
All right.
I'm going to have a peek at the EC2 page.
So here is our web server that we created in our public subnet.
I have another EC2 instance here that was created in a in a previous exercise.
So, so cool.
So that was a really quick and easy way to essentially deploy a complete virtual private cloud.
Using a TerraForm module.
All right.
So let's go back to the terminal window and destroy everything.
So run, TerraForm, destroy.
And then.
Confirm that we want to remove all these resources.
And if you need to confirm that these resources were actually removed, you can go back into the console
and and take a look, refresh the page and see what resources, make sure those resources were destroyed.
Okay.
That was terminated.
And if I go to.
VPC.
I should only have my default VPC now.
Clip shows only one.
And that's our default.
So that's all that we should have left.
Great.
So that concludes the lab on using modules.

--- Lab 6.2 - Creating your own Module ---

Now let's talk about creating our own module.
Creating your own module is fairly straightforward, actually.
To get started.
We're going to create a directory for our module.
Okay.
So in the lab, six directory.
I'm going to create.
A couple more directories here.
Okay.
So I created two directories.
I created a directory called Mod Lab and then another directory called Mymodule.
So Mymodule is where we're going to create our module.
We're going to put our TerraForm code for our module in there.
And then under Mod Lab, that is where we're going to use our module.
Okay.
So let's, let's go ahead and define that.
My module here.
Let's see.
So over.
Back in my editor under Mod Mymodule.
We're going to create a new TerraForm file.
I'm going to call it.
Main wtf.
If you recall from the if you recall from the lecture, TerraForm doesn't mandate or dictate requirements
for module structure.
However, they do have some recommendations and practices for naming conventions.
And so one of them is to create a file called Main.tf, which is kind of your main entry point for the
module itself.
And this really only comes into play if you ever want to publish your modules to the TerraForm Registry.
It's not a requirement, but it's a a best practice, a convention, really.
So this module is going to be really simple.
This is really just to demonstrate how to create and use a module in our module.
Our module is going to create a compute resource.
Okay.
And then we are going to incorporate that module in another TerraForm file.
So imagine, if you will, this module will be used for for reusability so we can define all these resources
within our module.
Package that up and then other folks can incorporate that into their TerraForm code.
This is really useful if you have one team responsible for one aspect of your infrastructure and other
teams are dependent upon that.
And let's say we're in a development environment and you have a network team that's responsible for
setting up the the actual network deployment and the network edge.
You could package all those resources up into a module and then development teams could stand up their
own environments by incorporating those modules, just like we did with the VPC module.
Okay, so in our Main.tf file, now that I'm done blabbing, I'm going to define a compute resource.
Going to copy it over from the lab guide.
And so all this is going to do is just basically going to create our web server based off of some hardcoded
Ami and our instance type.
So this Ami is specific to that US East one region.
Save this file.
And that's it.
That's it.
You have created a module.
This is a very basic, very simple module.
Okay, so now I'm going to show you how you would incorporate that or include that module in your TerraForm
code.
So imagine for a moment that somebody else wrote this particular module.
Okay?
And remember, remember modules are organized by directories.
Okay, So our module is called my module.
All right.
Now imagine if you will, we're up at this this upper level directory mod lab.
We're going to create.
A new file under here called module WTF.
Okay, so we're we're another developer and we want to leverage the my mod module that we just created.
I'm going to.
Include my module.
Define my module resource.
So this is very similar to what we did in the previous lab where we incorporated the VPC.
VPC module.
So we've got our module declaration.
Okay.
And then the name of our module, we can call it whatever we want.
It does not have to match the directory structure.
Called Mymodule.
And then the source here we are using a local file system path to that module and it's actually my module,
not my mod.
So we're basically looking for a subdirectory called Mymodule and TerraForm will load the TerraForm
files that are in the Mymodule subdirectory.
You can use a fully qualified path here.
It does not have to be a relative path.
Okay.
The next step then is we need to define our cloud provider, our AWS provider.
So I'm going to copy and paste that from the lab guide.
Paste that in here.
Again, we could also pull forward one of the provider files from one of the previous labs, but I'm
just going to paste it here for simplicity.
And then go ahead and save.
Going to save all my changes, actually.
Now what I'm going to do is in my mod lab directory I need to do a terraform init.
And when I run my terraform init.
Notice that TerraForm actually is importing my module.
It's getting the source from our module directory.
Now run terraform plan.
And you can see here, keep in mind we're in the mod lab directory.
Okay?
This is where we are, including our module, so to speak.
So we can see here that Running TerraForm plan tells us that TerraForm is going to create our Web server.
We're not going to run TerraForm apply.
I just want to demonstrate how you would incorporate a module into your TerraForm code.
This module is not very exciting at all.
We're going to make the module more modular.
So we're going to define some input variables that we can use inside the module.
So right now we've hardcoded some some attributes.
We are going to create an input variable that will allow us to specify the number of web servers that
we want to create.
We can also do this for the army and even the instance type and just about any attribute we can, we
can define as an input variable that we would pass in to that module.
But for this example, we're going to use count.
We're going to specify a count and allow folks to to create any number of web services or Web servers.
Excuse me.
So back in the main.tf file of our of our mymodule, we're going to add a count attribute equals.
What?
And then an interpolation.
We're going to add a variable here called var server underscore count.
Okay, so here we are referencing or assigning server count to count.
And then as with all variables, we must declare this variable in our module.
So I'm going to create a new file.
So back in my module directory we want to add a variables file to our module.
So under my module I'm going to create a new file.
There we go.
And I'm going to call variables.
DTF.
Notice the path here.
So we are inside our module.
Okay, my module and I'm adding a new file called the Variables.tf.
This is where we're going to declare our server count variable.
All right.
And to do that, I'm going to copy and paste from the lab.
And here is our server count variable.
Be careful when you are copying pasting from the word document or pdf that the the quotes are correct.
Sometimes I get different style of quotes that don't aren't are not interpreted by my editor.
And TerraForm, we'll have a hard time parsing them as well.
So the and we're setting a default value of one.
So if you don't specify if we do not override server count.
When we call our module, then TerraForm will will use a value of one for our web server.
So any variable that is declared inside of our module automatically becomes an input variable for that
module.
So what this means is that it must be assigned a value when you include the module in your TerraForm
code.
You can forget all that when you when you have default values for your variables.
If we did not specify a default value for our variable, then this automatically becomes a required
input variable for our module.
So let's go back to the module dot terraform file.
Because this is where we are using our module.
And right now, the only attribute that we have is the source attribute.
So here we're going to to define or excuse me, assign a value to our server count.
Here is where we can override the count.
And to do that.
I specify an attribute server underscore count equals and I can specify any value that I want.
Any numerical value.
I'm going to specify three here.
So this three will be assigned to server count, which will be passed into our module, and TerraForm
will create three web servers.
So save this.
And then back over here, I'm going to run TerraForm plan again.
Well, I don't think I.
Saved all my changes.
Run TerraForm plan.
There we go.
So we can see here.
And that TerraForm is going to create three Web servers.
And notice.
And here they are.
So web server.
Number three, Web server number two.
Yeah.
And web server number one.
Okay.
And that is the quick and dirty way to create a module.
There's really not a whole lot to it.
You can even nest modules within modules.
So inside of our my module directory, I could create a sub directory and add another module.
So you can really organize your your terraform code and break it out by you can break it out by however
you want to break it out by you can break it up by teams.
You can break it out by infrastructure components such as like networking, compute and they can all
be nested inside of a top level module directory.
And then the way we can get data in the way we define parameters or configuration parameters for our
modules is by declaring these variables.
So just to recap in our Main.tf file, remember this is our module.
We have a variable that we've defined called server underscore count.
And then when we call our module.
We specify a value for that variable inside of our module declaration.

--- Terraform State ---

Welcome, everyone, to the lecture on TerraForm State.
So if you have been working with the labs, you probably have seen a file named Terraform.tf State generated
in your lab directories.
This is a state file that TerraForm uses to map real world resources to terraform configurations.
It's really used to track what is currently deployed.
TerraForm also tracks dependencies between resources in the state file as well.
TerraForm needs to know the current state and all the interdependencies so that it can plan and effectively
manage your infrastructure.
The state files also used to improve performance by acting as a cache for all of the resource attributes.
So rather than interrogating every resource between TerraForm operations, TerraForm can simply read
the state file into memory.
This is a huge improvement.
If it had to go out and query the resource with the cloud provider.
So, so far we've been working with a local state file where the state of your infrastructure is maintained
on your machine.
Here's a screenshot of a state file.
The syntax shown here is in Json.
TerraForm also maintains a backup version of the state file between TerraForm operations.
This way TerraForm can look at what the present state is versus what the future state is.
By default, TerraForm stores state in the local file.
But I'm going to show you in a moment how to store state remotely, which is a far better solution for
team and collaborative environments.
TerraForm highly discourages hand editing of the state file.
The TerraForm State Command has a bunch of commands for manipulating and overriding the state file.
So if you're going to manipulate state and you need that to manage state outside of TerraForm, then
use the TerraForm State commands to do so.
And of course, I highly recommend making backup copies of your state files before modifying the state.
And so here in this screenshot you can see the different subcommands that the TerraForm CLI supports.
We can list resources, we can move an item into the state file and out of the state file we can pull,
we can push state to standard out or from another state file and we can remove items from that state
file.
We're going to go over some of these in more detail in the lab guide.
So I want to talk about importing existing resources.
This is included in the state lecture only because when we import a resource, it's actually the state
file that owns that resource.
The state file is the source of truth for TerraForm when it comes to what resources exist.
So TerraForm is great at creating new infrastructure and managing that infrastructure that it created.
But what about pre-existing resources that may have been created outside of TerraForm?
It could have been created by somebody else's terraform maintain in another state file or it could have
been created through the through a console or some other mechanism.
TerraForm does provide limited functionality for importing resources into your state file so that it
can be managed by TerraForm.
Importing resources in bulk and automatic generation of resource configurations are not yet supported
as of the time of publication for this course.
So to get started, you first have to define a resource configuration for the resource you want to import
and then run a TerraForm import command to associate that resource with your state file.
So as an example, there's an existing EC2 compute instance I want to manage.
First, I need to create a resource configuration for that instance in a TerraForm file shown here in
the first box.
Then once that resource is configured, I run the TerraForm Import Command, passing in the name of
the TerraForm resource and the ID of that EC2 instance in AWS.
Once the import is complete, that EC2 instance will be in my state file, which means it can be managed
by TerraForm.
So far we have only been working with local state meaning the state is managed locally in a file on
your machine.
But TerraForm can also support storing state remotely, and there are some significant advantages to
storing state remotely.
The first is that.
It enables teams to collaborate on developing and running TerraForm.
From a development perspective, remote state allows resource configurations to be shared in a read
only manner with other teams.
A use case for this is having one team being responsible for building out, say, networks, and perhaps
another team is responsible for deploying compute to those networks.
The networking team can expose virtual private cloud and subnet IDs and other networking resources so
that the compute team knows where to create compute instances.
So remote state makes it fairly simple to share configurations without needing an external configuration
data store like console.
Another important benefit is the ability to support state locking so certain remote state data stores
support state locking, which ensures that only one terraform write operation such as a TerraForm Apply
is executed at any given time.
This prevents multiple people from accidentally running TerraForm.
Apply or destroy at the same time and thereby corrupting the state file.
There are quite a few different remote data sources that are supported.
Here's a short list of the more popular ones in the lab guide.
We're going to be working with S3 and Console as a data source for remote state.
So let's talk about configuring a back end storage.
Back ends are used for managing the state file a remote state file.
A back end is defined using the back end.
Stanza.
Here's an example of a back end using an AWS S3 storage bucket.
The back end itself is defined in a TerraForm file, just like everything else that we've created in
the lab guide.
There are some restrictions, though, when it comes to the syntax of the TerraForm Stanza.
No interpolations are supported in the back end stanza, so you cannot use variables to specify any
sort of authentication credentials or a region or anything else for that matter.
So we're going to have to hard code these values or load them from a file and we're going to cover this
in a in the lab guide.
You can, however, load parameters in from the command line or through a configuration file.
And as I mentioned, this is going to be shown in the lab on remote state.
Any time you configure or update a back end, you must run terraform init.
To tell TerraForm that you've made a change to that back end.
So TerraForm init is what activates the storage back end and it also handles moving your state file
from local state to the new remote state and vice versa.
So this is what this is fantastic for TerraForm because it automatically manages moving state from one
state file to another back end and vice versa.
So if you're working locally and develop locally and then you decide that you need to collaborate with
your team rather than having to manage that state, file yourself and move it from your local file system
to a storage backend.
TerraForm handles that for you automatically as soon as you configure the back end and rerun TerraForm
init.
TerraForm moves that state file for you and the last restriction here is that only one back end is supported
at any given time, so you can't have both local and S3 storage going at the same time.
However, you can migrate from one to the other and back again if you need to.
So that concludes the lecture on TerraForm State.
The lab, the TerraForm State lab is going to cover Managing TerraForm State using the command line
interface.
We're also going to import a resources into our TerraForm State file.
And then last but not least, we are going to create and use remote state using Amazon S3 storage buckets
and a console registry.

--- Lab 7.1 - Importing an Pre-Existing Resource into Terraform ---

This is lab number seven on TerraForm State.
So in the lecture we talked about how TerraForm manages its own state in order to keep track of the
resources it creates and manages, including all those dependencies.
State can be managed locally on your machine or remotely using a back end data source for a single developer.
Having TerraForm managing state locally is perfectly fine, and it's quite simple.
It's the default state management mechanism.
However, in a team environment, state needs to be shared and collaborated on from both a development
perspective and an operational perspective.
In terms of development resource configuration details can be shared with other team members in a read
only manner.
So, for instance, imagine having a network team that created a bunch of networking infrastructure
development teams that are responsible for deploying.
Compute can query that state to get information about the networks.
And in an operational setting, remote state can be locked to prevent corruption by multiple TerraForm
operations running at once.
So this prevents somebody else running TerraForm at the same time that you're running TerraForm.
So in this lab, we're going to work with both local and remote states.
So for the first part of Lab seven, we are going to import an existing resource into our TerraForm
environment so that TerraForm can manage it.
The way TerraForm does this is that we will basically create a configuration for the resource that we
want to import.
And then when we run TerraForm, import, TerraForm will actually place that resource under its own
control by creating an entry in the state file for that resource.
So to get started, we need a resource that we can import and we're not going to create this using TerraForm
that would kind of defeat the purpose because by doing so would place it under management of TerraForm
by default.
So we're going to create a compute resource using the Amazon console.
The AWS console.
So to get started.
I'm going to log into my AWS console and make sure that you're in the correct region.
I'm going to be using us East one for this, which is Northern Virginia.
Okay.
And then I'm going to go to my EC2 dashboard and then under instances.
We're going to launch an instance.
And you can pick any shape for this.
It's part of the free tier.
You can check the the box here for free tier.
And then I'm just going to select any one of these.
Yep.
Okay.
I'm just going to review and launch.
And everything looks good here.
Go ahead and click launch when you're ready.
And for the key pair, we're going to proceed without a key pair.
So make sure you say proceed without a key pair.
We're not going to log in to this server.
So it does not matter if we have a key pair and then check the box to acknowledge and then go ahead
and hit launch instance.
Okay, So now that the instance is launching, go ahead and copy this value.
This is the ID.
Of the compute resource.
So we're going to copy it and save this for later.
We'll come back to it too.
If you don't if you don't remember to copy and paste it, I'll show you how to retrieve it for later.
All right.
So in our learn folder, we are going to create a lab seven directory.
Okay.
And to get things started pretty quickly, I'm going to copy over some files from a previous lab to
the provider file and the TerraForm variables file to to get us moving.
These files contain all the variables and configurations for the provider.
So from my lab four directory, I'm going to copy over.
Provider tf.
Uh variables.tf.
And the Terraform.tf.
VARs file into my lab seven directory, so I should have three files that I've copied over.
Let's have a quick look at these and make sure that they are.
What I needed.
So here's our provider definition.
We just want to make sure that we have our provider defined with our access, secret, key and region.
And then we have the variables declared access secret, key and region.
And we also have a web server amis variable, which is fine.
We can leave that in there.
And then our TerraForm TFR, which defines the RMI for that.
Region.
Okay, so in our lab seven directory, let's also create a new file called compute.tf.
And in here we're going to create a an instance resource.
So I'm going to copy and paste this from the lab.
Now here we're creating a web server instance.
We can call it whatever we'd like, but we're basically declaring the resource and the instance type,
and the army must match what we created.
So I have to go back into the console here.
We'll do this.
All right.
We want to make sure that the army and the instance type match so we know it's AT2 micro that matches.
In the machine Image ID.
Need to find where that is.
Okay.
There's our army.
Okay.
So to get the army ID.
You can see down here, we have the ID listed.
I'm going to click on the name of it and copy what's in parentheses.
Can I copy this and then paste it?
Into my file.
All right.
So go ahead and save this.
So now this is the bare minimum that we need to define for our resource that we want to import.
And after we've saved our compute.
TerraForm file, go ahead and copy the instance ID.
This is what we're going to use to actually, we can copy that value.
Okay.
Once we've copied the instance ID, we can go ahead and actually import the resource into TerraForm.
So first of all, let's do a terraform init to initialize the lab seven directory.
Okay.
And then once we've initialized, we're going to run TerraForm import.
To import the resource.
And we need to specify two parameters here.
The first one is the name of the resource that we've defined in our Compute TerraForm file, and that
is the format is resource type dot name.
So it's AWS underscore instance dot web server in this case.
And then followed by the ID of that resource, which is what we copied from our console.
So now go ahead and run the import command.
All right.
So TerraForm will tell us that the import was successful.
To verify this.
You can run TerraForm Show.
And we can see.
So TerraForm Show displays the state file essentially in a in a human readable format.
And we can see here that our ID, this is the resource that we imported and then the army ID and then
all the other attributes follow as well.
And that is how you import a resource.

--- Lab 7.2 - Configure Remote State using AWS S3 ---

So here in part two of Lab seven on TerraForm State, we're going to store State in an S3 bucket.
So to get started with that, let's go ahead and log in to our AWS console and create an S3 bucket for
this activity.
Under services, where's my cursor go?
So under services in our AWS console, I'm going to find S3 under storage.
And then go ahead and click Create Bucket and we need to provide a name for this bucket.
This has to be globally unique, so you can't actually use the name that I'm going to be using in this
lab guide.
It has to be completely unique, so I'm going to call mine, learn TF State.
And this is the default region for me.
And we'll go ahead and click next.
Okay, we want to enable versioning.
What this will do is it will actually version each and every in all of our objects in our bucket.
Versioning is good if we need to recover state from a previous state.
And also enable encryption.
This is a best practice.
It's certainly not a requirement, but it's a good practice to encrypt your data at rest.
And I think that's it.
So just the versioning checkbox and the default encryption and we can pick as 256, that's sufficient
enough for this lab.
Then go ahead and click next.
And then under the set permissions page, we can go ahead and just take the defaults here.
So under the user ID, you're going to see your user ID, the one that you're logged into the console
with.
Feel free to add permissions as necessary.
You'll probably need to do this if you have multiple team members that need to access the bucket.
But for now, you know a good practice is to create a role and manage permissions through a role.
But for the lab, just accept the defaults here and click next.
And then once everything looks good, go ahead and create that bucket.
Okay, so there is our bucket.
It is not a public bucket by default.
The.
The bucket is private.
Okay, so now that we've got our bucket created, we have to configure TerraForm to use our bucket for
remote state.
So to do that.
Let's go back to our text editor here and under our lab seven folder.
We're going to create a new file named Terraform.tf.
Okay, This is where we're going to place our TerraForm configurations that are specific to the TerraForm
tool itself.
And we're going to add a back end configuration.
So I'm going to copy and paste this bit of code from the lab guide.
This is step 2.7 in section two of Lab seven.
Looks like you can always tell when I copy and paste and the characters are a little off.
Due to the color coding.
All right, let's change my quotes.
And go ahead and save this file.
So what we've done here is there is a TerraForm stanza which is used to configure TerraForm.
And one of those things that we can configure within TerraForm is the back end, the storage back end.
And so here we specify the type of storage back end, which is S3.
This is not arbitrary.
We have to actually specify S3 and then we have to specify the bucket name.
So I'm going to go back here and my bucket name is Learn TF Dash State.
So I'm going to type that in.
You'll have to replace.
Whoops.
So replace the bucket name with the bucket name that you created.
Make sure I here, let's take let's do this really quick.
Okay.
Learn state.
And then the key.
The key here represents the path within the bucket to store the state file.
And this can be whatever you like and then make sure the region matches the region that you're working
in and then leave profile as the default.
Let's go ahead and save this file.
And a word on the the default profile here.
The profile attribute tells TerraForm to load the default profile containing your access credentials
from a credentials file.
We're going to create that credentials file here in just a second.
When we've configured our providers in TerraForm, we've always specified a an access and a secret key
that TerraForm used to connect to Amazon in order to create our infrastructure.
In the case of the storage backend that we're configuring here, this S3 storage bucket backend, this
storage backend is completely independent and not tied to our actual infrastructure that we're creating.
So what do I mean by that?
Well, we could use an S3 bucket as our storage backend for storing state, but we could be creating
infrastructure in Google or Azure or Oracle.
So that's why we need to define a credentials file for AWS in this particular case.
So to get started, what I'm going to do is we are going to create our credentials file.
So before I do that.
Okay, that's much better.
All right.
Make this bigger.
So in your home directory.
And you can do this on Windows as well.
We're going to make a directory called Dot AWS.
Okay.
When we use credential files with AWS tooling such as the CLI or the SDK or the S3 storage back end
and TerraForm TerraForm, well, the SDK or AWS knows where to look by default for these credential
files.
And so we're going to create a directory called the Dot AWS in our home directory.
In Windows there is a guide in the windows on, on where you would create this in your Windows home
directory.
So inside of this directory I'm going to create a file called Credentials.
In fact, I'm merely going to copy over one that I have saved off already to this location.
So what you're going to do is you're going to create a file called credentials in your in your AWS directory
like so and then go ahead and edit this file.
And you're going to put three lines of code in here.
The first one in default that you see here, line number one is the name of the profile.
Okay.
We can have multiple profiles identified in this credentials file.
And then following that are the access key ID and the secret access key.
And these are the credentials that I have been using throughout the lab guide here.
I've got to remember, though, to remove these and disable these keys when I publish this course,
I'm using the same user essentially for both my S3 storage backend and for the creation of infrastructure
using TerraForm.
In the real world, you would probably have a dedicated user for accessing the storage bucket.
And you would not be sharing users or credentials between the storage bucket storage back end and the
infrastructure that you're creating.
But for the lab guide, I'm using the same access key and secret key.
So once you've got these three lines coded in, make sure you replace your key and secret key with your
values.
Save that file.
And what we need to do is change permissions on this file.
So I need to do a change mod 600 because it will complain that the permissions are if they're not set
properly, the TerraForm will complain.
That they are not secure enough.
So 600 is sufficient.
On the file and our credentials file is all set.
So what I'm going to do now is go back into my lab seven directory.
Okay.
And here's our terraform.tf file.
So here is our profile defaults.
Now, if you have a, um, if you're already using a credentials file and you already have multiple
profiles in that file or you want to set up a profile just for the storage back end, you can certainly
do that.
You would specify the name of that profile here in this configuration file.
So once we've got our credentials file and once we've configured the back end and terraform, we need
to re initialize this directory.
So when I run terraform init, TerraForm is going to read this configuration file and it will automatically
migrate our local state over to our S3 storage bucket.
Now keep in mind we have one.
Server that we had imported in the previous lab If I do a TerraForm show Woop.
So I just ran TerraForm show, but it's going to complain that we have not run initialization yet,
so we're going to do that in just a moment.
But in the previous lab we imported an EC2 compute instance into our current state file.
So now run terraform init.
And confirm that we want to copy our existing state to the new back end.
Do you have a choice here?
You don't have to migrate, but it does give you the choice.
Okay.
So we are completely migrated and we can confirm this.
There's a couple of ways we can confirm this.
I'm going to put this over here.
Lord.
My God.
All right.
So go ahead and click on the name of the bucket in your console.
And this is our bucket up here.
Learn of state.
And the key, as I mentioned earlier, is this is a kind of a path within your bucket.
So here we got learn state then our TerraForm state file.
So this is our state file and there's a link to that state file.
And we can also run a TerraForm show in our lab seven.
And what's happening here is TerraForm is reaching out to the S3 storage bucket to fetch that state.
So now any time we manage TerraForm State, we're doing so in our S3 storage bucket.
It's all transparent to you, the end user.
So go ahead and try running TerraForm Destroy.
This will destroy the imported resource.
I have to source my.
Um.
My environment variables.
All one second here.
My.
Okay, now run, TerraForm, Destroy.
And do I really want to destroy?
Yes.
Okay.
So our resource has been destroyed.
And I can run a TerraForm show.
Just to confirm that there should be nothing in our state file should be empty.
Now, if we want to switch back to local state, all I have to do is.
Edit our terraform.tf file.
I can either delete it altogether or I can simply.
Comment out the storage back end.
He's got it.
And save that file.
And then run terraform init.
And this will force terraform to reload that configuration file.
And of course, TerraForm is going to detect that we had unconfigured our S3 end.
And we can enter.
Yes.
To migrate back or no, to start with an empty state.
I'm going to type in.
Yes.
Here our state file is empty.
So whether we do a yes or a no doesn't matter at this point.
All right.
Now we're using local state again.
Let's run a TerraForm show and that comes back instantly.
Notice there was a little bit of a delay when we ran some of these TerraForm commands with state being
stored in the S3 bucket, fetches it from the storage back end.
And so that's it for this portion of the lab.
I've shown you how to configure an S3 storage back end and how to migrate to and from those back ends.
And so this this flow works the same for just about any other type of storage back end that TerraForm
supports.

--- Using an AWS Credentials file with the AWS Terraform Provider ---

So in this extras lab video, I'm going to show you how you can use an AWS credential file with your
TerraForm code rather than specifying an access and secret key and an environment variable.
So the credentials file typically remains in your home directory, and this has the advantage of supporting
multiple profiles.
We can set up default profiles for our named user account within AWS.
You can also use profiles to manage other accounts.
So let's say that you want to use a certain profile for a dev environment or a certain profile for a
different type of role, like a terraform provisioner.
So you can create multiple profiles within this credentials file to support those different logins.
And so one other benefit to using a credentials file is that both the AWS SDK and command line interface
also support using this credentials file.
So it provides a single source of secrets that you can use for the SDK and the CLI and TerraForm.
And lastly, another benefit is, is in efficiency.
The environment variables need to be set every time you load or reload your shell.
While the credentials file is persistent and we can specify different profiles within that credentials
file.
So let's go ahead and create a credentials file that we'll use.
So log in to a terminal or command window and in your home directory, make sure that you're in your
home directory.
And this process works the same on Windows as it does on Linux.
So if you're in PowerShell or a command prompt window or a terminal.
On Linux or OS ten.
It's the same process.
So in your home directory, make a directory called dot AWS.
Okay.
The period.
Well, I've already got one created here.
Uh, the period here tells the operating system to treat this directory as a hidden directory.
Okay.
So go ahead and CD or change into that directory.
All right.
Like shown here.
And we're going to create a text file called Credentials.
So we're just going to do touch credentials.
All right.
And then edit the file.
And inside we can define our profiles.
So for this exercise, I'm going to show you how to create a default profile.
And the syntax for that is just we give it a name of of, of the profile and square brackets and then
followed by two.
Uh, attributes or two variables.
So this one is AWS.
Oops.
Underscore access.
Underscore.
Key.
Underscore ID.
And the next one is AWS.
Underscore secret.
Underscore access.
Underscore.
Key.
Okay, so here you would specify your actual access key ID and your actual secret access key, and you
would save those values in this file and you can create additional profiles as well.
So if you already have a default profile, you know, you could create one for TerraForm if you wanted
to.
We can call it TerraForm, and then you would just enter in another access and secret key right beneath
it.
All right.
So go ahead and save your credentials file.
And I've actually already created one previously, so I'm going to copy mine over.
Okay.
Now have a look at the permissions on this file.
We want to change the permissions.
Everybody can read this file, basically, but these are our secrets, so we want to keep them secret.
So do a change mod 600 on the file.
So that only you can read right on that file.
Now that change mod only works in it does not work.
This will not work in a command prompt or PowerShell.
You can use Windows Explorer to change permissions or you can do it through the command line using the
Windows commands.
Okay.
So once you've changed permissions on that credentials file, we now need to tell our provider.
In TerraForm to use the credentials file.
So over here I have a I don't know if you can read this, but I have a little a little demo TerraForm
project set up and in my provider config, here's a, here's a typical provider config that we've used
for Amazon in the past labs where we've specified an access and a secret key using environment variables.
So what we're going to do is we're going to strip that out, we're not going to use those anymore.
Okay, so you can delete the access and secret key.
You can comment them out if you'd like to leave them in there.
Instead, we are going to specify a profile and this profile is going to be the same name.
Of the profile in our credentials file, which was default and then go ahead and save this.
So what this is doing here is we are telling TerraForm to use our default profile in our credentials
file.
So we notice that we didn't specify where this credentials file is located.
By default, if we don't specify a location, the provider is going to look in your home directory in
that directory.
So go ahead and save that file.
One more change we want to make in our environment variables.
TerraForm File.
I also need to comment out the variables for the axis and the secret key.
Since we're not using them, you can comment them out or you can delete them altogether.
I'm going to delete them here.
Make sure you save all your files.
And then back in my terminal window, I'm going to go into my credential demo directory and I'm going
to run TerraForm Plan.
And so all my terraform, the only thing that my demo TerraForm code is doing is creating a single web
server.
What I'm trying to demonstrate here is that we have removed the the access and secret key variables
from the provider and replaced it with a profile.
That's been defined in our credentials file.
